ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Hello, everyone, and please calm down. We begin the 16th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that you are detained and cannot attend today's meeting, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Jožef Školč. I have invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and representatives of the Judicial Council to the 24th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 13 April 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for withdrawing the item from the agenda or extending the agenda. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 16th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m., on the 1st item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from the 31 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. To this end, the Minister of Transport will answer the questions raised at the 14th and 15th meetings of the assembly, to which he did not respond due to his absence. Mr Aleš Gulič and Mrs Breda Pečan, who have raised two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall answer the question in no more than five minutes, even if the question is raised by the larger ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request an additional reply but cannot ask an additional new question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, Minister of Finance Andrej Bajuk apologized for today. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in a bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič noble on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Prime Minister, I ask how the country intends to protect Slovenia's movable and immovable cultural heritage. Every day we are witnessing destruction, destruction, such as the Forest in Ljubljana, the collapse of the Colosseum is being prepared, and Rickley's villa on the Bled is falling and in a moving heritage, but it is not long ago that gentlemen under Mr Bohinc's tactics have destroyed one ton of historic weapons, and nothing. And I'm asking, will this continue? I'm asking you because I think the minister's response to culture would be too small. However, I am convinced that there is a need at the level of the government to resolve this matter, and among these things there is certainly also the issue of that collection of graphic papers that Mr Kurt Mueller gave to Rogaška Slatina when this general social property or general human property was still at stake. When Mr Stane Pšenik bought the piece, first Hotel Sava, and then became the owner of the roof company Zdravilišče Rogaška d.d., this cultural heritage, which was given to the Slovenian people, was simply accepted as private property. With one transfer of ownership, the Lord has become the owner of a collection that is estimated to be worth around a billion tolars, which means that his contribution was approximately cca. Overtaken 10 times with that. But if we went to any auctions with these materials, I'm sure we'd get at least five to six times that. Given that Mrs Richter's previous mandate did not have any listening to culture and cultural heritage and neither did the government, I ask you: Does the government intend to deal with these cases in a complex manner at one of its future meetings and also to solve them in a complex way in order to preserve the Slovenian cultural heritage within it; but not that, when appropriate, these matters will go into private hands when one of those who sells them will not be taken to court and will be brought to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you so much for asking. Surely, caring for the cultural heritage is of paramount importance. This was also realized by the legislator when he passed the Property Transformation Act, which was adopted in 1992. Under this law, the government then adopted a regulation to exempt those who own businesses from cultural monuments. However, the Constitutional Court repealed this regulation at that time and it was then seven years before the legal regulation of this area, so that the law on the possession of cultural monuments was adopted only in 1999. During this period of time, there was a void that produced a number of consequences that were later resolved, but some still do. When this law was enforced, 42 immovable cultural monuments were exempted from ownership and the law did not specifically address the issue of ownership of the movable heritage. With regard to the specific collection in Rogaška Slatina that you are asking about, you have rightly indicated that this is a gift from Mr Kurt Mueller. Rogaška was given this gift from 1985 to 1995. In 1995, the owner of Rogaška Hospital got in trouble and decided to sell it. According to the law, he must first offer the purchase to the congregation and the Ministry of Culture, since this collection is declared a cultural monument by decree of the municipality. That's what happened. This was offered in the purchase of both the municipality and the Ministry of Culture. And at this point, there's a recording of this heritage, it's a vast graphic collection that counts, if I recall correctly, 40,000 sheets. The Ministry of Culture cannot buy this out until the evaluation is made in accordance with the professional criteria. However, appreciation can be obtained when an inventory is previously carried out. The Ministry estimates that it will take a few more months to complete this procedure, and then it will be possible to assess and decide on a possible buy-in.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much for this answer, which only partially pleases me, because I think it is also controversial how this collection was owned. And I think that the government in this area should investigate the legal loopholes by which this gentleman became the owner of the whole thing. Because cultural property cannot be acquired as much as real estate. I think that at the time that Mr Kurt Mueller had received an honorary sign of the freedom of the Republic of Slovenia in 1996 in the political circles at that time knew where the taco dog was praying, unless it was then distributed through a private line, which is also possible that it was already known that something was missing, and they wanted to sort it out somehow in a strange way. So I would ask, Mr. First Minister, if you answer my question, does the government intend to consider the possible dispute in this property on a legal basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u9	These circumstances, which you are now referring to, are unknown to me. To the extent that the Ministry of Culture has decided to redeem itself after evaluation, it will also be necessary to verify the ownership and legality of this property by normal procedure, so that I do not see any problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you. The following question will be asked by Dr. Pavel Gantar, LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. Since you took power, things have started to happen that we didn't believe could happen. Of course, it is normal for a democratically regulated country to replace the power to replace politics, the political segment of public administration, in order to change priorities and approaches to public governance. To gradually and at first sight, sometimes with barely noticeable changes, but sometimes even more harsh and violent, it is beginning to change and adapt to the needs of your political authority the very fundamental liberal, democratic structure of our country, but this is not what they expected. We are concerned about the gap between your rhetoric of consensus reforms and the actual changes that can be made to one sentence, and this is the strengthening of political power because of the power itself and the benefits it brings. Empirical evidence multiplies and lines from day to day, from week to week, without being exhausted, I list only some. The RTV Act, which introduces the political control of the ruling coalition over the public media, is evidence of the latest criminal changes. The Media Act, which converts the right to correction and actually allows the government to intervene in the media. The non-transparent sale of Mercator shares with one goal to take over the related sales by Officer Delo. The Law on Judicial Service, a decree on the salaries of officials to intervene through the payroll system in the autonomy of the judiciary. Recent attempts to discipline and attempt to replace the two vice-presidents of the National Assembly in order to tarnish the reputation of the institution in public and diminish its importance. And of course, the Law on Public Servants, which adapts the administrative and professional part of the public administration to the political interests and demands of the current authorities. Mr President, that is exactly what my question is about. Member of the European Parliament, SDS Vice-President and President of the Council of Kobilena Lipica, Mr Miha Brejc stated at the press conference on 12.4. regarding the negative opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in Nova Gorica: "What matters institutions, I must remind you that these are part of the public sector, public administration, and it would be good if we understood slowly in Slovenia if the government decided something, this is the decision of the government. Public servants are obliged to consider how to implement this decision, not how to act contrary to the Government's decision." My question, Mr. Prime Minister, is very brief: Do you agree with the position of the Vice-President of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Presidents of the Council of Kobilarna Lipica? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you so much for asking. I will try to comment later on some other points that have nothing to do with the question, but first on this quote. In accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and in accordance with laws, specifically in accordance with the law that has been in force for a long time and has been adopted in your mandate, it is said that, at the time you were Minister, the Administration implements the law and other regulations adopted by the National Assembly, ratified international treaties, state budget, sub-law regulations and other government acts. Thus, those who work in the public administration who are public servants are obliged to implement the laws, ratified international treaties, the state budget, regulations and other government acts. If we ask citizens to respect the laws and decisions adopted by the legal authorities, then it is normal to expect this from those who are employed in the state or public administration and are paid for it. I don't know a country where it would be different. Secondly, when it comes to the university, the institutes, the professional public, the government or the state institutions do not have any authority to take decisions that require the implementation of these decisions from these institutions or employees in these civil society institutions, except where these are not legal obligations affecting all citizens and citizens. As for the other statements, which are somehow - as is usually the case in this mandate - which was always protested in the previous term from this place when someone else stood here - somehow touched on the issues, but I am, in fact, pleased with those remarks concerning the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, because there was a public accusation of how the government assessed the work of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, as I requested the replacement of the two Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and so on. That's not true. Secondly, I find the noise raised on this issue somewhat hypocritical. I recall not so long ago, when the party I am still in charge of had in the opposition the right under the same Rules of Procedure to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, it was also proposed, and the ruling coalition rejected this proposal. And the biggest opposition party in the previous term ended the mandate without a Vice-President of the National Assembly. At the time, there was not a single comment in the media about totalitarianism, nor did the opposition, which was in fact deprived at the time, use such qualifications. So I ask you to measure things with the same vats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I have to say, I'd almost bet I'd get an answer like that. Mr Prime Minister, it is clear to us all that all citizens must respect the law, regulations and so on. But this is about something else. This is about the relationship between expertise and politics. This is a relationship between the situation of an administrative and professional worker when he makes a position or opinion regarding the view that the decision of a government or the direction of a government which is a political orientation is likely to be wrong or unfounded. And that's what my question is about. And your answer is that it obviously belongs to another register of democracy that I know. Of course, there can always be a gap between what is my profession or even between the different opinions of this profession and politics. But this cannot be resolved by the fact that this employee receives a written warning before the termination of the employment relationship, this is not an expert solution to the problem. Maybe he's right or wrong. That's another thing. We're not gonna judge that. But that the government's professional response is a reminder before the termination of the working relationship, we are protesting it. And my question, Mr President, is, what is this register of your democracy, what does it mean and whether you intend to continue doing as you are doing now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u17	So the answer is yes. We intend to continue to work in accordance with the Constitution and laws, we also intend to correct the mistakes that we have encountered, we also intend to correct mistakes that are large when laws are passed. There are dozens of them, one could say hundreds in the previous decade, which were contrary to the professional criteria, contrary to the publicly expressed positions of the profession, but this has fallen peacefully. I am not saying that this is not going to happen now either, but this government has much more responsibility in legislative procedures than it has in the past for the opinion of the profession, to the criticism of the profession. I would also like to see that, once we are practically on a good path towards the second half of this term, we are slowly getting over the pain that has arisen from the mentality that some who have been in power for 12 years will remain there forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you. You want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u19	Dear Mr. President! With the reply of the Prime Minister, of course, I am not satisfied, so, Mr President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I propose that, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the State Assembly, at its next meeting, hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister. I would like to stress in particular what bothers us in particular - bullying public servants. And we are amazed at the fact - because it is clear to everyone - that the European Member, a respected member of the SDS, a golfer, abuses his position and political influence in order to actually make himself a suitable object in a place where, according to the overwhelming part of the profession, he should not stand. In fact, I don't understand these open-minded, friendly circles that adapt to the arrangements of the Lipica cobial plant for their purposes. And in fact, Mr President, you once brought to the WD-40 session, and I will show you, Mr President, a golf ball; obviously this is your favorite one than any Lipica. That's why we're calling for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Gantard to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on the matter, will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Miran Potrč, the Social Democrats, will ask the next question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! At the last meeting of the National Assembly, you said to the Social Democrats' question on the government's activities in the further privatisation of the Slovenian economy that the government is not late to be prepared in the government immediately before the completion of the privatisation programmes for all strategic sectors of the economy and banks. When we proposed a debate in the National Assembly on these guidelines and your answers, the coalition did not accept it. The events of the last month confirm the eligibility of our proposal. We would not be talking about the situation in Mercator today, but we are interested in any further sale of state shares in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. In the Social Democrats, we believe that we already have an important share of foreign capital in our banking industry; that all the old members of the European Union, as a rule, have a majority or an increasing bank in their possession; and that only the new members of the European Union and the transition candidates, except Slovenia, are fortunately no longer in the majority of domestic ownership, thereby losing an important leverage in guiding economic development. Therefore, after careful consideration and examination of all the effects of the decision, we assess that any further postponement of the government's decision regarding the sale of the Ljubljana Bank weakens its position and its impact on the development of the Slovenian economy. Secondly, despite taking the country's transparent withdrawal from economic ownership, we believe that there is no justifiable reason for the further sale of state shares in the New Ljubljana Bank to foreign partners. In view of the above, Mr President, we ask: What are the reasons, if, in the opinion of the Government, it would be justified to think about the further sale of the share of state property in Nova Ljubljanska Bank over the current 39% of foreign owners? Secondly: What are the reasons impeding the government to take its final decisions on the continuation of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and when this decision can be expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you so much for asking. While it is partly possible to agree with the statement expressed in this question that the unresolved issue of ownership, the unresolved issue of ownership of the Ljubljana Bank, does not have the best impact on the operation of this bank. Here we could agree, but this issue has not been settled for one year or several months, but for a long time. And if it had been settled in the past, there would have been no problem and business would probably have been better. However, it is not possible to expect that any decision that may have major strategic implications for Slovenian public finances, after a long delay or only take place in half, will be taken overnight. This is not what we want to do, and the working group that developed the concept of further withdrawal from the banking sector has drawn up a proposal at the working level. However, the government has not yet addressed it and has not identified itself, so that at this point the position of the government cannot be forwarded to you because it has not yet been accepted and we will accept it within the time limits set. However, a number of circumstances need to be assessed and considered before that. Surely the solution that we will come to will not be the simple answer, as suggested in the question, if we do nothing, because the situation as it is is is not the most ideal, and not just because it is not so, let's say, the final decision. So far, there have been no major differences in the professional circles that have been drawn to work in the preparation of this concept of privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, or there have been virtually no differences, so I think that the decision will be weighed, good and in the interest of Slovenia when it is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr President, I believe that it is difficult to answer a specific question if there is not yet an answer. In the Socialist Group of Members, we just think that it is bad that there is no answer. We believe that it would be only right that only faster than so far, regardless of the difficulties, be defined in the government's clear position on how the possible sale of the country's further shares in the Ljubljana Bank will take place. Our belief is that at least the reason why state shares are sold in banks, insurance companies, economic infrastructures, companies where the most knowledge is invested is similar to selling the bank for reasons such as those mentioned at times, is to reduce the obligation to foreign loans while we know that its return is greater than the obligations that we have to pay at the expense of foreign credits and so on. We just don't see any arguments here, so we asked you if you could give us these arguments. You say you don't, you can't. We argue that this is bad, and we recommend that at least the time frame by which you will do so be communicated, at least by which time, Mr President, which was also one of the questions, but it is likely that what from a serious government that deals with such an important issue in a responsible manner, could be said on your part today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u27	So, precisely because we want to act seriously and because we know how information that appears in the public affects a lot when it comes to business moves, not least at the price of shares and shares; it is not possible to deal with these things so easily. And it is also wrong to accuse the government in a direction or a decision that has not been made. Nothing is being sold at this point, no such decision has been taken. So talking about how bad it is doesn't make any sense. You have to admit, this is not such an easy case. If this were an easy case, you'd probably have saved him in your mandates when you were in power. I ask for a little more correctness and also pragmatic thinking on these cases. The government doesn't have only these privatisations on the table, there are other banks that are still heavily owned, insurance companies, there are a number of companies. All these processes are taking place and we would not want to make decisions that will make us look back in two years and wonder whether we have done the right thing, as someone today may wonder when they are looking at the price of the Krka stock and compare it to the price that the state once received for Lek's share.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you. The next question will be put by Mr Anton Kokalj on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u29	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Recently, we were able to read in the media that the Slovenian Indemnity Company revealed the valuation of the Triglav insurance company, which was carried out by Price Waterhouse Coopers as well as the first valuation. The re-evaluation or so-called verification showed that the insurance company Triglav was worth more than they had originally assessed. Last February, at the initiative of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk, a Slovenian compensation company temporarily suspended the ownership of the insurance company Triglav, which had taken place in 2003. In addition to the valuation awarded by the government for the purposes of the property transformation of the insurance undertaking, the then administration was the initiator of another valuation, which showed a significantly higher value of the insurance undertaking. According to data published in the media, Price Waterhouse Coopers’ valuation, which was awarded by the previous government on 1.1.2001, was valued at 60.6 billion tolls by the Triglav insurance company. On the basis of this value, ownership also started in 2003. Last February, however, the insurance company’s management revealed that Deloitte & Touche had ordered another valuation for internal needs, after which the insurance company was worth 110 billion tolars on 31.12.2003. This difference was also the main reason for the re-evaluation. According to a new valuation commissioned by the Slovenian Indemnity Company Price Waterhouse Coopers on 1 January 2001, the insurance company Triglav is worth 121.8 billion tolars, which is more than the estimated value on the basis of which its ownership began in 2003. I wonder if this is a final appreciation and how such a difference could have occurred. The valuation received by the Slovenian Indemnity Company on 3 March further showed that the decision of the Slovenian Indemnity Company to stop the property was correct, since it made it impossible for some to benefit from the obvious unjustifiably. I also ask what will be the consequences of this new valuation and what this new valuation means for the continued ownership of the Triglav insurance company.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you for asking first. It is partly possible to link the answer to the previous topic or topic that we have discussed in the previous question, because only in this particular case has there been a fact that state property was sold at half price in the total amount of 60 billion, which has been proven today. 60 billion tolars is the extent of potential damage, which in some ways covers the sums of the many other transactions that have been discussed in recent years. Why the difference? While the valuation was made on the same day, according to the situation on the same day and the same House of Audits Price Waterhouse. There was a difference because in this last case, when the insurance company was assessed in real terms, the audit house was told to make the valuation on the basis of international standards without any additional instructions and restrictions. In the first case, when the value was half lower, the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society, in relation to the then authority, gave the audit house restrictions on what could be valued and what was not appreciated. On this basis, there was a underestimated value and, after this underestimated value, the insurance company’s shares were then sold. It is very simple, as far as clarification is concerned, and I hope that the competent authorities will once also be able to sanction this in the sense of establishing a responsibility that is more or less book-based, how the procedures have been carried out, and everything else is a matter of others. The problem that remains up to date is that ownership procedures have been initiated on the basis of underestimated value, that the financial ministry or the new administration of the compensation company has stopped this, that judicial proceedings have been initiated, that things are still tangled in the courts and that it is very difficult at this point to predict some final interpretation of individual court proceedings. In this case, it is also impossible to say whether it will be possible to completely prevent billions, 10 billion, 60 billion, of damage to the common property or not, because the case was stopped when the new compensation company administration stopped it. Unfortunately, it is not possible to get definitive answers from the government at this point of time. The final answers are within the hands of the judicial authorities dealing with individual claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you. At the 14th and 15th meetings of the National Assembly, Members of the Srečko Friend, Bojan Kontič, Cyril Testen and Samo Bevk asked questions from the Minister of Transport of Mags. Janez Christmas. Since the Minister was not present at these meetings, the Members requested an oral reply to the next meeting of the assembly. So I now give the floor to the Minister to answer Mr Happy Friend's question about the construction of the second railway track, Divac-Koper. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good day to you all. At a meeting of the Slovenian Italian Mixed Commission in July 2005, the Italian Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport presented an initiative for the Interreg IIIA project, namely a strategy for the development of the fifth corridor and a feasibility study of the Trst-Divac railway connection and a draft intergovernmental agreement for the construction of the Trst-Divac railway line. Our Ministry of Transport examined the above-mentioned materials and, in December, properly harmonised the application form for the above-mentioned project under Interreg IIIA. Our basic point of view was that in this study it was necessary to define the possibility of a railway connection between Trieste and Divača on the new Koper-Divač railway connection. In order to ensure the appropriate effectiveness of this project, the Ministry of the Project has ensured co-financing of EUR 300,000. On the issue of this meeting in Rome, which was of a technical nature, the Slovenian side discussed technical and organisational matters within the framework of Interreg IIIA project or more specifically about the composition of the professional council of the project, in which representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the public agencies for rail transport and the municipality of Divac and the municipality of Koper - all as Slovenian partners in the project will participate. This set of arrangements also includes an agreement on the individual phases of the project, such as the organisational structure for the implementation of the development strategy of the fifth corridor and an agreement on the design of the project task and the timetable of the entire project. At the same time, the Slovenian delegation proposed to the Italian parties that, instead of the proposed intergovernmental agreement, which at the moment identifies the elements that will be known only after the completion of the aforementioned Interreg IIIA project, we agree at the moment on a statement of intent, on the construction of the railway connection of Trst-Divac, Koper-Divac, as defined in Decision No 884/2004 EC in the sixth priority project of Lion-Trst-Divac/Koper-Divača-Ljubljana-Budipesta-Ukrainian border. On 27 February 2006, a coordinated proposal for a declaration was signed by transport ministers of the Republic of Slovenia on 28 February 2006 by transport ministers, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Italy. It identifies the need for more intensive cooperation in the preparation of the study and the other necessary documentation to build the link mentioned, the need for joint intervention in the provision of European funds, and the establishment of an intergovernmental Slovenian-Italian Mixed Commission to guide and coordinate the necessary activities and prepare a draft inter-State agreement that will follow all those activities. As can be seen from the explanation of the guided activities and the content of the arrangements, I can ensure that all these activities do not affect the procedure for the construction of the Koper-Divač railway link, as well as the possibilities for the dedicated use of funds approved by the European Union, as stated in the question itself. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! Of course, I would like to ask the Minister of Transport a further question. It is not only a question of how the agreement between Italy and Slovenia was reached - I have already praised the Minister here because he was able to bring this issue into the course of this decision, because Italy had completely different intentions. It's about when the Koper-Givics section will begin to be built. It is about when we will start using the funds already granted in 2004 in the European Community's international account of almost EUR 5 million. Of course, it is also about how we will spend the resources that the government has now invested in the reconstruction of railway infrastructure, substantial resources, I think it is 17 billion, but 3 billion and slightly less than was planned in the Slovenian Railways holding company. And it's also about the Minister telling me clearly when a one-and-a-half-year-old promise will come true. At his ministry, we agreed that, at least on the existing track, we would actually train the operational capacity of the track to this extent, to replace the existing rolling stock network, to actually correct the critical points so that we do not lose these market shares in the freight transport segment, as we are losing them today because we do not have sufficient security and sufficient flow on the track. In short, Mr. Secretary, I would like you to answer me with a complex answer: Will we start with the purchase of land, the probe of land, geodetic research tomorrow or 2008 when the cargo and other transit flows have already escaped from Slovenia? I'd like a clear answer. Of course, in the context of what has been agreed with Italy, thank you once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much for the additional question. Very briefly. We have prepared a national programme for modernisation of the state rail network, where there is a clear and clear indication of the dynamics of the implementation of projects, both the renewal of the existing Divača-Koper line and the construction of a new track or new two tracks, as we say. So all activities begin as soon as we have a special guarantee law under the roof, which will provide its own share of resources, as it is known that there are no resources available in the state budget for any projects in the field of railway infrastructure. That is why we have already put in interdepartmental coordination within the ministries, which is the very proposal for a law that will provide adequate resources. And we are immediately continuing with all activities in the field of modernisation of the railway network and, in particular, with a focus also on the existing Divača-Koper track. The year in the planning documents is 2008 to put the existing track in place and continue with all as soon as we have the law under the roof, the activities related to the new construction in this section. Of course, we will start activities in the framework of Intereg 3a project by harmonising the future route of the fast railway from Lyon via Trieste, Kopra, Divaca and further towards the border with Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Friend, you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 246 I would like to vote on whether we will have a specific debate on this important issue. I believe that the market share lost by the Slovenian economy is too large to be eliminated in 2008. When the law was effectively rejected non-chalantly in the National Assembly by the positions of the parties, I think it would be right to hold a debate on this. On the one hand, we have a project that is included in the first 30 projects within the European Community, and we do not want to start implementing it, and on the other hand we have European funding, and we do not want to use it, on the third hand we also have the unwillingness of the Ministry of Transport and we postpone this project in 2008. I would like, of course, because Luke Koper also loses a large market share, for a month 100,000 tons of cargo goes to other ports, according to Luke Koper, the respected minister, you don't have to hesitate, that's true and you know yourself that the ship that would arrive at our ports saves 7 to 10 days of journey if it goes to the Scandinavian part. One day, the ship's average tonnage ranges from 50 to 100,000 dollars. You can calculate how much we are doing to the Slovenian economy and because Luka Koper as a strategic partner of Slovenian railways cannot behave properly in the European space, this is a huge loss for the Slovenian economy. We can't be so macho about one of the main traffic flows. The railway is the only link to the only window, the maritime window in the world, and we should pay more attention to it. Recently, we have earmarked a billion euros of credit for roads, if we were smart in your ministry, we would halve this sum and drive both projects simultaneously. You didn't know how to do that, and we're probably going to destroy these roads with heavy trucks soon, because you didn't even get the law on the proper rerouting of cargo, the heavier transit cargo from the roads to the railways, in spite of repeated promises. That is why I would like to hold a special debate in the National Assembly, because the law has fallen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Minister, now I ask you to answer the question of Bojan Kontić regarding the rehabilitation of the Arja Vas-Velenje road section. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. With regard to this question, which one would like to know which intervention and when to be carried out in order to improve traffic safety on the Arja Vas-Velenje State Road, due to the adopted amendment to the 2006 budget of 150 million tolars, which you have also addressed orally to me and to which I regret that I could not answer you at the 15th meeting because I attended the Council of the European Union in Brussels, I am giving you the following answer. The existing state road has several sections to improve traffic safety due to the high traffic burden, especially unregulated crossings that do not have regulated or left-hand winding belts. There are also no bus stops and pedestrian crossings in the area, no illuminating intersections and there are no public lighting corridors on some sections. On the basis of the currently available documentation, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads produced a document for the identification of the investment project, which was approved in March 2006 and contains the following measures on the main road G1 4 Arja vas-Velje: the arrangement of corridors for pedestrians from zero to kilometre 1.12 is worth 80 million tolars covering the following measures; the construction of corridors at the edge of the vehicle, the width of which is maintained; and the drainage and public lighting arrangements. Second, the arrangement of a crossing within a kilometre of 2,705 in the value of 25 million tolars covering the construction of pedestrian corridors between bus stations, the marking of the passage for pedestrians and the arrangements for drainage and public lighting. This is followed by the arrangements for the Lipje connection from km 3.118 to km 357 in the value of 50 million tolars, which includes the extension of the vehicle due to the construction of the left-hand turner belt in Velenje, the arrangement of bus stops and the construction of the sidewalk from the bus station to the connection for Lipje, the drainage system and the public lighting of the intersection. The following is then the arrangement of the intersection for Pireshica in km 4 of 50 million tolars, which includes the following measures: construction of the lane for left-hand bends and arrangements for drainage and public lighting of intersections. This is followed by the arrangement of a road crossing for Vinsko Gora in km 5 worth 25 million tolars, which includes the construction of a lane for left-handers, the arrangement of bus stops and pedestrian corridors and drainage arrangements, and public lighting of the intersection. In addition to the arrangement of the crossing for Dobrno in km 7.350, it is the intersection of the main road G1-4 and 1.262 with a regional road R2 429 of 35 million tolars, which includes the construction of the lane for left-hand bends, the arrangement of bus stops for these pedestrians and the treatment of drainage and the public lighting of the intersection. This year, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads will first carry out a public order for the construction of a crossroad in km 2,705, the Lipje Crossroad in km 3.2 and the Vinska Gora Crossroad in km 5. There will be another public order to build a crossroad for Dobrno together with the pre-painting of the main road G1-4 1261 Velenje-Montenegro from kilometre 5.4 to kilometre 5.8 and from kilometre 6.450 to kilometre 7.350 and the main road G1-4 1262 Črnova-Arja you from kilometre 0 to kilometre 1,200. Both contracts will be two years old and will burden the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006 and 2007. A call for the construction of pedestrian corridors along the main road Velenje-Montenegro from kilometre 0 to kilometre 1.120 is foreseen in the coming year, as well as arrangements for a crossing for Peresica in kilometre 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. Contic, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Thank you very much for your answer. It is clear from this reply that the funds provided in the budget and the funds provided by the amendment will be usefully spent on this Velenje-Arja route. This is far too small for a more radical intervention, but for the recovery or partial elimination of the most sensitive points of course. I also addressed a written question to you with an oral question. And since this relates to this particular road G1-4, I am interested in whether in the supplementary reply, although this has not been announced, you can also tell how you plan to solve the pedestrian crossing in the village of Šala, which is also on this road G1, in the municipality of Velenje, which is becoming or is for some time a very dangerous section, because on both sides of this road there are bus stops and students who attend the school in Slovenj Gradc, and also everyone else is crossing the road. There's no pedestrian crossing, no signalling, so it's getting dangerous. And to avoid unpleasant experiences on this part of this overloaded road, of course, I ask you if you are planning to solve this problem in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much for the additional question. I must say, I don't know the location of this pedestrian pass. However, I will order the Slovenian Directorate for Roads to examine if this is a very dangerous part of this road, so that this transition will be adequately secured; we will find the means necessary for this matter to be settled in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr. Minister, now please answer Cyril Testen's question about the rehabilitation of the Earth's beach in Baska Grapa.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you so much for asking. So yesterday's visit to these places has also given some answers, particularly the needs that are urgently needed for this area in order to really take root steps. I am counting on us to find more lasting solutions to such problems in this regard in the context of the national programme for modernisation of the state road network, which are specific to this Member's question, which was, when will we find a solution to the problem in Baska Grapa, and what solutions will we be able to achieve in doing so. Unfortunately, I have not been able to respond to the meeting, but the situation is practically happening every day. On 14.3. the Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads in connection with the removal of the effects of the beach in Baska Grapa appointed a working group in which the representatives of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and Municipalities Tolmin and experts for individual areas were appointed. All necessary expert reviews have been carried out and various possibilities for the implementation of the recovery have been explored. On the basis of the geological report and the geodetic recording, it was first decided that the area would be temporarily covered by a covered tunnel gallery approximately 40 metres long, allowing the alternating one-way traffic of the final capacity of the road for normal traffic, and therefore the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads ordered the implementation of the temporary rehabilitation project of the gallery, which was completed on 18.4.2006. This decision was opposed by representatives of the local community of Tolmin, so on 14.4. the working group also examined the possibility of de-mining and decided to prepare an implementation project of the mine-mining option, which will be completed, so today I also ordered the responsible people on the direction and the engineer to complete the project by the end of May this year. Thus, the final decision on the remediation of the effects of the beach in Baska Graba will be taken after the development of this implementation project of mine clearance, which must also have all the appropriate consent. At the same time, the municipalities of Tolmin and Cerkno are working to ensure local traffic across Zakojco, the works will be completed by about 1 May of this year, when communication will actually be established on this very, I can say, developed road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Testen, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. I would like to thank the Ministry of Transport in particular, for the last time I also asked for interim reports and have received a report twice on what is going on, but I would ask a short additional question. There is also the possibility of a mine action project offering a lasting solution from all letters. In this case, what can be offered as a permanent solution? I think the only solution is a tunnel, and it would cost a lot, so that would be billions. If I know correctly, it was a rough estimate that this value was over two billion. What solution can the locals expect if the last option is chosen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you so much for the extra question. This is quite a challenge, Mr Testen, Mr Member, because we simply do not have this money in the budget of the Directorate, but in any case we must ensure the transportability of roads. This is my answer to the people of the country, because it is pointless and insufferable that this road remains a literally cut-off traffic line, which runs also across the Selska Valley and, of course, from places via Bohinjska, forward to Baska Graba and towards Tolmin. So we will do everything we can to resolve this traffic problem as soon as possible. I wouldn't expose this last one, I'd say the most expensive solution, because I think the first one I mentioned today is probably the most realistic. We need to establish transport at this short section, which is very problematic in terms of transport safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr Minister, another issue is in stock, namely from Mr Bevek, regarding the necessary modernisation of the road link Želan-Idrija-Logatec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday's and yesterday's visit to the government in Idrian work gave some answers to this subject, the so-called fourth development axis. However, I would also explain the situation to the other Members. At our Ministry at the beginning of this year we prepared a proposal for a coordinated plan for the development of transport and transport infrastructure and sent it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and in coordination with the development projects of other sources. An integral part of this coordinated plan is also a programme for the development and maintenance of state roads covering the period up to 2023. This programme includes all the necessary measures on the entire state road network, including the programme to modernise road links from Želen to Logatc. I also specifically explained this to the Member of Parliament yesterday or before yesterday. In parallel with the preparation of a coordinated transport and transport infrastructure development plan, the preparation of content for the national development programme and the proposal for a set of co-financing projects from various European aid funds was also carried out. There have been more criteria for the selection of individual road routes proposed as separate projects for co-financing from the European Regional Development Fund. The basic framework was the assumption of the amount of European aid available that could be allocated to road infrastructure modernisation projects. Within a given framework, we have selected projects that correspond to the scope of the aid in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on European Regional Development Funds and also justify objectives such as: improving the quality of the TEN linkage, better connectivity with neighbouring regions, improving the conditions for coherent regional development, reducing consumer costs, and improving the reliability of the transport system. The next step was to select those road routes which connect peripheral regions with central Slovenia and are at the same time in the worst condition and require the greatest investment. The proposal for a national programme includes the renewal of three road routes, Želan-Logatec, Želen-Jeprca, Želen-Kobarid-Robič, among the priorities. Since the estimated investment value of the Road Regulations project is the direction of Želen-Logatec, in particular because a number of measures are already being implemented, less than the value of the Gjelen-Jeprca and Želen-Kobarid-Robič road routes projects, the medium two projects are therefore also included among the priority projects in the national development programme for co-financing from the European Regional Development Fund. As has already been said, between the three road routes, the highest activity takes place directly on the road link Želen-Logatec. For the main part of the envisaged measures, the project documentation is already being prepared, the projects are being recorded in the development programme plan and most of them will be implemented in the next two or three years, i.e. at the beginning of the next European financial perspective 2007-2013. On the other hand, spatial documentation and documentation for the execution of works are still in the preparation stage in the other two roads and the implementation of the measures is foreseen after 2007. Therefore, implementation would coincide with the next financial perspective. Let me stress once again that the three road routes mentioned above, which represent an important link between the western part of Slovenia or the upper part of the country with central Slovenia, are by no means neglected in the proposal for a national programme, but in the selection of projects that are more suitable for co-financing from the said funds of the European Structural Funds, the investment weight of the project and the phase in which the project is located have decided. So much in response, other things in detail we have already had the opportunity to re-ebate in these last days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you. You want Mr. Bevk's supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I thank Minister Bozic for his answer, and I have already asked the question on 27 March, saying, a bad month ago, before the government came to visit Northern Primorska, and we also discussed this in Idrija and Nova Gorica two days ago or yesterday and cleared up a lot of things. Nevertheless, I think it would be good for the government to re-or the Transport Ministry to check whether this right leg of the fourth development axis, or as we call the letters Y from Želen to Lower Idrija, Idrija and Logatec, would be included in a set of projects that would run from the European Union funds for the period 2007-2013, also because this section of the road is now scheduled for renewal, where the travel speed is supposed to be 40 kilometres per hour - I am talking about average travel speed - and whether we would not consider preparing this reconstruction in such a way that the travel speed would be 60 kilometres per hour; and whether we should not also draw up a plan that is a little more ambitious, especially through the Idria to Godovic and then further to Logatz, which would probably require more resources than are now envisaged in the State Road Modernisation Programme, because only additional funds from the European Union funds could increase the speed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you so much for the extra question. In short, since I have answered this part of the question in part, I would say that in any case I will look for all possible forms of funding, because when preparing a national modernisation programme for the state road network, we also need to develop funding resources. Today, the Prime Minister, or also yesterday, said that a resolution on the state development of projects is being drawn up and that this programme of modernisation of the state road network is also included in this framework, and in combination we also need to draw up a real volume of funding, both from the budget and from other sources and, of course, from European sources. And certainly this section is not excluded from this and will be treated and taken into account equally in this context. So the ambition of our ministry is very great, I can say that, but the problem that has been before is that we are limited to the resources that we or we are getting from the Treasury, but this ambition is indeed related to the challenges that are linked to the search for other alternative sources. On this point, I think we will also have to say a concrete word under this national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you. Since there is no Minister of Finance, he apologized, I ask Mr Cwickle whether he nevertheless wishes to ask the question of the Member of Parliament. Here you go, if you like.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u59	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I hope that one of the other ministers or Mr Janša will be able to answer an important question. We are practically the end of April and everywhere in the world, the parliaments will learn how the budget for each year has been implemented. Today our finance minister flew to America, even though the website shows that the official part of the program only begins on Saturday. I ask the Minister for Finance, the present ministers and also the absent Mr Janš: How does the government plan to implement the budgetary and other public financial policy this year and in the coming years by the end of the mandate? We understand that a whole bunch of documents have been written, and an important document, a partnership for development, has also been signed on Tuesday. Of course, I think that the partnership for development will primarily be a voting machine. However, nothing can tell us how they intend to implement the basic measure, the first measure, which says that consumption is expected to decrease by 140 billion. The real data for 2005 and the plans for 2006 and 2007 show that consumption will increase in particular. I therefore ask the absent Minister: What about the implementation of the budget? Why are the only items that have increased, public administration wage items, wage items of public institutions? Why do we have a reduction in investment expenditure, that is, money for, if you want, road maintenance? Why do we have a deficit and a loss of money primarily in terms of reducing funds to non-profit organisations, to which we have almost a quarter? It is not clear to us, so of course it would be good for the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, to tell us this: How do you really intend to act in a cost-saving manner? How do you intend to encourage the economy when you missed an important opportunity in 2005 to make the investments we made in the state budget even come true? This is due to the fact that the government has failed to spend 43 billion resources, the resources planned in the budget balance and linked to the EU. However, data for the first two months show that the net relationship with the EU is 10 billion to our detriment. We paid 10 billion more in the EU than we got. I would therefore ask that the Minister of Finance, Mr President, answer this question in detail at the next meeting, so that we know how badly this government manages Slovenian public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Minister will answer your question at the next meeting. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Psychotherapy Act is under preparation. Some of the European countries have already regulated this area. I am aware of the wishes of experts in this area who suggest that, in adopting legislation in this field, psychotherapeutic activities, Austria, should follow the experiences of the neighbouring country. There two laws were adopted in the package, namely the Psychotherapy Act and the Psychological Act. Experts are convinced that the time for legal regulation of psychotherapeutic activities has also matured in us, i.e. in Slovenia, as it would protect this area from the charlatanism and abuse of self-declared experts, reduce the grey economy and encourage the development of psychotherapy as an autonomous social activity. I therefore ask the Minister: How far is the procedure for drafting a bill on psychotherapeutic activities? I know that the working text has been prepared, that it has also been transmitted to the Ministry of Health, that this text is now being coordinated and that in a timely manner, following the example of the Austrian case, it could obtain the necessary legislation from this area. Please, Minister, if you will answer this question: When do you plan to see the light of parliamentary procedures?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much for that question. Nice greeting, Mr President, and, of course, to all Members of Parliament. This question is welcome, especially because it is actually in this area at the time of our ministry, and our presence at the Ministry has been quite something done. In fact, at this time, we met with heads of both psychiatry and others in the field of psychotherapy. And I think that in the month of May last year they were also asked, or asked to make a proposal, some professionally based basis for drafting a law that was sent later. The same applies to psychologists, this is a society of psychologists, and at the same time also for the society of psychotherapists. I must say that your fear, your desire, your hope for the future when you speak of psychotherapeutic activities, will be regulated by legislation and will no longer be so-called charlatanism. I think that this is the only way that we can actually get to some of the many situations in this area, because this moment is certainly not settled and I agree with you. However, the matter is extremely professionally problematic and cannot be settled in a very short time. At the time behind us, in those 10, 11 months, we tried mainly to form two groups or one group from representatives of both groups, psychologists and psychotherapists, and thus to bring together a working group that could later draft a single law. I must say that, for the time being, we have been encouraged by psychotherapy and psychology, but the final formation of the group has not yet been proposed. Nevertheless, in the context of the current talks, we have prepared a proposal for a law primarily for psychotherapy, while we do not yet have a pre-deposited form of psychology for this proposal. These two proposals, as I said, have been submitted to the Ministry and, of course, contain a whole range of proposals that will be very welcome in the future. But what I'd like to say is what psychology and psychiatry are, it's possible, because there's a pretty big stranger here. However, I have to say something that, even within the profession, the profession itself in the psychotherapeutic field, there is a marked discrepancy and that is the basic reason why it is actually very difficult to reach a marriage. In fact, we will look back on the legislation that is new to us in this area, so we can look back on the legislation that is already in force elsewhere, but we will look at the legislation that exists in some countries of Europe and then try to combine it, to regulate it with legislation that is appropriate for us. The current shortcomings in this area are high. The situation as I said before and as you said, it means doing psychological work to incompetent people, poorer quality of professional work of psychologists, and also abuse. And that is precisely why we want to adopt this law as soon as possible. In the bill, which was designed for psychological activity, it is highly pretentious and quite complete, as it has been preparing for more than 10 years, and it needs to be complemented in this law mainly by the part that talks about financial consequences and is, of course, the biggest problem there. The financing of this law or the implementation of this law by finance would be quite costly in the way it is now presented. On the other hand, it is also necessary to define in more detail the financing of the so-called Psychological Chamber, which this Act also provides for. However, as far as psychotherapy is concerned, the matter is, of course, somewhat clearer, even financially, except in this very professional work, where, as I have already said, there is not yet a proper consensus that one serious proposal could also be prepared - one that would be equally accessible, equally adopted or acceptable by all those interested. Of course, I believe that the adoption of both laws is necessary and extremely important for the legal regulation of activities in the field of mental health. In view of the different education envisaged, there is also a legitimate claim that there are separate professions and two separate activities. In the framework of the Law on Mental Law, which we are preparing and which is in the government's plan - these two laws - I must mention, they are not in the government's plan, but we are preparing them, and we expect them to be adopted during this period, but in the government's plan is the Law on Mental Health, which is expected to be adopted in the course of this year, but it is also true that these two laws, which we have previously discussed, do not fall within the scope of this Law on Mental Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister. Since the Minister of Finance is absent, does Mr Miro Petek nevertheless want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your word. Nevertheless, I will ask the Minister a question and expect an answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. In recent days there has been money laundering in the Slovenian public at the bank LHB of Frankfurt, which belongs to the group of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. This bank promised the Korean entrepreneur Janko Zakršnik or his German company almost overnight a EUR 30 million loan to buy his own company. On this issue, the Slovenian press wrote, and also the anti-corruption commission, in its opinion 40, on the basis of the documentation received, stated that the conduct of the bank, in this case the LHB, which does not notify the competent authority for the prevention of money in such transactions, also the signs of corruption. The German law also requires the Slovenian bank to inform the competent authorities in the event of a suspicion of money laundering. This is not the first time in a Slovenian state bank that is suspected of money laundering. At the end of the 1990s, an extraordinary internal audit at the state bank Novi KBM in Dravograd dealt with the suspicion of money laundering and some actors, interestingly, are the same as in the case of Frankfurt today. At the time of the previous government, this act was more or less ignored and the case put under carpets. The question is whether this was the case with the hidden consent of the then ruling elite or even with their cooperation. The prosecution of Koroski rejected the suspicion of money laundering in Novi KBM with an epochal conclusion that there was no known source of money. The essence of money laundering is that there is no known source of money and that is why all of this needs to be investigated. The prosecution's and the police's contributions in this case, in the case of the prosecution of money laundering and serious crimes of corruption, we cannot count too much; there will be much if they do not participate. It is also concerned that Slovenian banks consider the issue of money laundering prevention only as a legal obligation and some urgent evil, and they do not pay enough attention as one of the forms of risk in banking. While some bank officials are involved in such transactions in one way or another, on the other hand, many bank officials are not qualified to detect such suspicions, which are often highly sophisticated. Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, I ask: What will the Ministry of Finance do within its powers that Slovenia and the Slovenian banks and other financial institutions will not be a popular money laundering resort? Money laundering, corruption, organised crime and terrorism are crimes that are often very interconnected. Today, however, they pose the greatest threat to security, peace and the rule of law everywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you. The Minister of Finance will answer your question at the next meeting. Mr Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Honorable Council of Ministers and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the political situation of local self-government, regionalisation and similar big stories is much to say because of the upcoming local elections and because of the'regulation'. But in all this system, as people say, the devil is always in detail. If we look at how this system, which we have and build up, works in practice, then we meet up with some sort of banal but extremely important matter, such as, for example, some of the rules of procedure of the municipal council. The Rules of Procedure of the Municipal Council shall be an act governing the organisation and manner of work, procedures and other matters relevant to the work of the municipal council. It has to be aligned with the statutes, laws and so on. I come from the middle, for example, where we have problems with this Rules of Procedure or it has been inconsistent and illegal for eight years, since the year 1998. We have already tried everything to move the matter from a dead point, and unfortunately we have not succeeded until eight years later. You may find the matter trivial, but you may wonder what this means in practice. Of course, the old Rules of Procedure still mention the presidents of the municipal councils and the secretaries of the municipal councils, which we no longer know for a long time. Of course, it also depends on the fact that there are such absurd matters that, for example, the ruling coalition controls itself with the same people, then it is impossible to discuss important matters, that points such as the debate on the municipal budget do not hold a public debate that, despite more than a third of the representation in the municipal council, it is impossible to call an extraordinary meeting and so on and that, when an extraordinary meeting is called, the opposition cannot count on the help of the paid municipal administration. In these long stories, which are, of course, the result of the irregular rules of procedure and where the municipal council as the most important decision-making body in the local government does not perform its functions, there are many trivialities. And in a system that is introduced in some places, not only in our municipality, even in some others, we could also say the mayoral dictatorship and, of course, in that sense, we could also rename the ministry instead of the Ministry of Local Self-Government to the Ministry of, say, dictatorship or something like that. The budgets of the municipalities become victims and hostages of some personal political careers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Now, of course, if the honourable Member asks me about the legality of the work of the congregation, the municipal authorities and the municipal administration, then there can be no doubt about it. Lawfulness must be absolutely respected. Now, with regard to such acts as you mentioned, of course our service can advise if representatives of municipal authorities, representatives of citizens, or otherwise turn to us. In these cases, of course, we also advise and, last but not least, we have prepared models of harmonised documents of this kind and are published within the framework of the Community catalogue of competences. Now, as far as the functioning of the legality of the congregation itself is concerned, then it must be made very clear that the congregation also has its supervisory authorities, its supervisory institution, which controls the legality of the functioning of the municipalities as such, and I believe that this is practically regulated in all municipalities. However, as far as the state level is concerned, I believe that we must also respect, as much as possible, the autonomy of local self-government, as well as in the context of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, and leave, of course, local matters to be resolved at the local level. Thus, I also believe that in this case, as you ask, the saints have every possibility that they can not, after all, put certain questions, also specific points into your session. However, it is also possible to mediate, of course, in accordance with the adopted law or with the law on local self-government, but it is also necessary to send these initiatives to us, if this is of course a question. I would just say that, as far as responsibility is concerned, even in this case, I - I have also said this several times in this National Assembly - separate at least two types of European responsibility, and I think that this must be respected. One is this so-called criminal responsibility, where it is known which institutions are dealing with these things and I believe they are also dealing with them. The second is moral, political responsibility, which is checked every four years in elections. Here I agree with you. This year's elections are at the local level and will be held responsible for all municipalities as well as for mayors and councillors. And I'm sure citizens and citizens can make decisions at local elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you, Minister. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Of course, Mr. Minister, it is possible to agree with you in many ways. I was just wondering, in your midst, you were a popular, particularly a democratic mayor, and I appreciate that and I respect that. However, this is because the law on local self-government stipulates that state authorities monitor the legality of the work of the municipal authorities and that state oversight is carried out by the government and the ministries. Therefore, as Minister responsible for local self-government, I ask you: Can you, under the law on local self-government, act as a visual authority or do you think that the law does not give you such powers? I do not think this is the only case in Slovenia that there are more. And if the Ministry finds this systemic error, it should act. The mechanisms, the levers, I think you have enough for that. And for the sake of local self-government and a better life, it will be if you get better and more involved in this story. Our thinking was also confirmed in 2004 at the Ministry of the Interior, where they say that the statute of the municipality and the law on local self-government apply in such cases. I agree with that, that's all possible. However: Will you then be able to say from this city that the rules of procedure in the municipal councils are unnecessary? And would you support and suggest that we simply abolish them and leave them to the law and to the free decision of the mayors? They say the procedure is the queen of democracy. I agree with that, but how to maintain this crown in this area as well. In the next phase, will we also support the abolition of statutes and laws, and then end up having even more authority, a role than before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u72	Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. As regards the action under the law, it must be said that, in particular areas covered by the competent ministries, the competent ministries are, of course, obliged to cover, in accordance with the law. In the event that such acts are adopted, our service works in a way that advises. I think that in this case, too, it has been so active or giving its opinion and direction. However, I am sure that all local authorities are so responsible and are also coordinating and adopting these acts, which, of course, are followed by municipal authorities. Again, I repeat that, of course, political responsibility is being verified in all environments in the elections and this year this political responsibility will be re-examined, both for elections in the municipal councils and for mayoral elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of Economy Mr Visiak a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues. Some estimates and forecasts suggest that the electricity market will be fully liberalised in the coming year to a real explosion, i.e. an enormous increase in prices, particularly household electricity. The basic reason should be that now the tariff prices, for example for households, do not cover the costs of supply to suppliers. Therefore, the market does not work and therefore we pay citizens less than we pay in market conditions. On the other hand, there is a fact that should also be linked to non-market conditions, which is also confirmed by the accounts that huge profits still accumulate on the electricity market, which are generally unknown where they go. And it is also a fact that the establishment of the market and regulation of electricity prices, despite extensive speech and presentation of reform visions and measures in many areas, are still not strategically defined and related to macroeconomic objectives, which should somehow be the basis for reform moves. Nor is it possible to forget the tactical manoeuvre in establishing the electricity market served by the government, which is linked to the introduction of the euro in the coming year, since rising electricity prices during this period could lead to difficulties in setting up and meeting the conditions. Therefore, it is legitimate to ask whether it can really happen that, as of 2007, when we take over the euro, electricity prices, especially when it comes to household electricity, will explode and rise by 50 per cent and more than is forecast. I mean, people who know me say yes. Therefore, Minister Visjak, I ask you: Is this drastic and jumpy price rise really foreseen? Where are the real reasons for such a supposed imitation? Why does the government still not have a clear electricity pricing strategy for tariff customers?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. Why the government doesn't have a clear strategy - it's not true. The government has adopted a regulated price plan until the regulation of electricity prices for households or for tariff customers is possible. As you know, we are members of the European Community, as you know, we have negotiated a transitional period and we are slowly opening the market of Slovenia and as of 1.7.2007 the market will also be open to households and, of course, the government will be difficult, difficult to interfere with household electricity prices because we are betting on market conditions. Of course, it is not true and I reject, I strongly reject these opposition incitements that the government does not have a strategy here. It has it and has it in force, and I can therefore tell you that in this year, 2006, and by the first half of 2007, there will be no drastic jump. For 2006, the government accepted that household prices could increase by a maximum of 2.3%. The data on the drastic rise in household electricity prices is therefore not true, it is merely speculation. Once again, more political instigation than a serious professional, reasoned argument. What I would like to stress, however, is that by opening up the market, this is the second half of the following year, government intervention, the intervention of the country in prices, and I would like to stress here that domestic customers belong to a vulnerable demand group and that electricity prices for this issue will also be protected by the country in a context which is also possible under the directives. Here I would also like to point out that household electricity prices do not deviate significantly from the average of the VU and therefore there is no reason why, despite the establishment of market relations of this price, they would have jumped dramatically, as you say, in such percentages. They won't, it's a fact. It is true that the Energy Agency has prepared a methodology before time to come from current prices to this unregulated area. And these were also speculations that said that there would be such irritations - there would be no! As far as we can see here, we are making scenarios about how this year will come, say, whether in a good year from current prices to possibly a few percent higher prices, and under these scenarios we are also seeking to protect the most vulnerable groups of domestic residents, socially weak, if that were the case. Nor does it claim that in the electricity market, there were huge losses in distribution companies at the expense of the public economic service, i.e. in this year's year alone, namely the supply of electricity to households or tariff customers. It is true, however, that electricity companies also carry out market activity in addition to this activity and that the total balance exceeds a positive zero or operate with a certain smaller profit. It is also the responsibility of the Slovenian Government that, even this year, although the deadline is 1.7.2007, it is still this year that it separates market shares from non-marketable parts, thereby making the operation of both public economic services within distribution companies more transparent and, of course, also the operation of this business. To conclude, I would just like to point out that the statements made by some policies, in particular those of the opposition species on the drastic increase, are speculative and have no professional basis. And that the government has very clearly adopted the strategy of how, who, until the opening of the market and that prices can be raised by up to 2.3% this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. I must say that, first of all, I strongly oppose and refuse to answer the correct question. My question is not possible and it is not necessary to place some politicians in some general assessment just like that. Please also read a little of the statements made by your senior state officials from the Energy Office and so on; but later on. What you said at the end is the result of your failure to reorganise the energy system, which you promised in the coalition contract and in the reform package, this year at the beginning of the year. And when you talk about the electricity market, in three quarters, I agree, the market is open, but for households, that last part of it, of course, remained for next year. Therefore, I will quote from your two documents two tasks that have not yet been performed and are not yet done, although you have committed yourselves that they will already be at the beginning of this year: 'The Ministry of the Economy will lay down rules to ensure the strategic security of supply by explicitly assuming the risk of customers and suppliers, except for households and other critical customers'. I said, "Where is this plan?" And under the coalition contract: "There are some large electricity consumers in Slovenia who are not able to pay market prices for energy, so the government will make some plan of execution to subsidise it." Where was this plan made? Is it really waiting for 1 January 2007, when, as I said, verbal words can be a little heavy, prices explode. But if it's not, it can actually happen. And those who learn about it predict that if it's not on paper, it can actually happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The messenger mixes pears and apples. I'm sorry, but big customers and cross-subsidisation are a completely different story than household prices. And you mentioned cross-subsidisation and a plan to eliminate cross-subsidisation. Cross-subsidisation is no longer available in Slovenia, we have eliminated this year. Indeed, even the largest energy consumers who paid cheap energy during the previous government, including at the expense of households and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, the small or cross-subsidisation is now eliminated. The largest consumers, who have thus been protected, are now paying the market price for energy. Secondly, as regards the tariff plan for customers. As far as the tariff client plan is concerned, it is clear and accepted. The plan of regulated prices for this year, including the price for tariff customers, i.e. households, is adopted. It is true, however, that a reorganisation of the distribution system is taking place, where the concept is also ready, but a series of purely formal procedures are needed to re-establish, reorganise and adapt businesses. The deadline, once again, is 1.7.2007. We want to do this six months earlier to start companies in the distribution sector operating in accordance with the reorganisation with the start of the next business year, that is, 1.1.2007. Once again, I ask you not here in front of the cameras to upset the inhabitants and users of electricity in the Republic of Slovenia with an explosion, with words that have no real basis. These are speculations, deceptions, and please don't do this because it doesn't have a real basis. You're asking me, I'm answering. This year's 2.3%. Is that an explosion?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you. You want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u83	Of course, I am not satisfied with these answers and once again with the way in which they are answered, so, of course, I propose, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a broader debate in this national assembly at one of the future meetings, for two reasons. And let me say I'll hold the minister to his word next year. I did not talk about this year, I was talking about 2007 when market liberalisation will take place. Now conscious liberalisation is not going to take place this year, and I have told three reasons why. We both know that our ticket next year will depend on these things that you talked about, which will be wrapped in this package of price regulation. I'm talking about households myself, and now I'm quoting from your coalition contract that I won't, because I couldn't make it through time. "There are some large electricity consumers in Slovenia," so it is not going to be said that pears and apples, because little of this area I know, "who are unable to pay market energy prices, so the coalition will be defined on the basis of expert assessments until the cross-subsidisation of large consumers and households, its consequences on the competitiveness of energy companies, as well as social consequences." And I say, "Where is this plan? Where is this plan for the following year from 1 January, when we enter the euro area, when the whole market is released, when 100% liberalisation, where is this plan? That's not the plan today! And the second thing I was quoting you from the plan you made in the reform agenda. Don't make me say it again. This task has not yet been accomplished, too, although the reform package states that this will also be linked to privatisation at the end of the year 2005 and the continuation in 2006, also linked to privatisation. And if you want my answer, the problem is political, just not on the side of us, politicians in the opposition, but on the side of politicians in position, because you simply cannot agree on how you would step into the area of privatisation of the Slovenian energy system, because you are in conflict, government or government, with those who run large energy systems. And here's the problem, so the train doesn't move forward, and from 1 January 2007, the consequences of this mismatch can be borne by us consumers in households. Yours and my ticket from January 1st. And I'm not doing any big "piar" story, what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Kumer to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I am asking Mrs Marija Lukačič the following question, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I would like to know how the funds allocated to the development of agriculture will be distributed in specific areas. In this regard, there were three schemes in public debate. You, Madam Minister, have presented the fourth in Brussels, which has been rejected and would be responsible in our field. And this one was much worse for small farmers. It should be stressed that small farms support rural areas, settlements and cultural landscapes. So I wonder: What will be your next steps? And what future have you set for these small farms, which also have a city under the sun? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Madam Member. The question concerns the rural development measure for the next programming period 2007-2013. Let me explain that the Council of Agricultural Ministers adopted the Rural Development Regulation last year, in June. On the basis of this Regulation, we were obliged to draw up a national strategic rural development plan for the same programming period that is now in the public debate. This plan is the basis for the allocation of funds per axis, namely for the first axis which combines the measures of non-investment in the agricultural economy, the early retirement measure and the action of the young farmer, it is mandatory to allocate 10% of the funds under this Regulation. For the actions of the second development axis, which combines the actions of the SCO programme, an area with limited agricultural factors, then animal welfare measures and Natura 2000, it is mandatory to allocate 20% of the funds. For the third development axis measures 10% of the funds and for the leader of the axis 2.5%. After a thorough analysis of the situation in Slovenian agriculture, we prepared a draft document, which provided for 25 to 30% of the funds for the first development axis, 50 to 55% of the funds for the second development axis, 10 to 15% for the third development axis, and for the leader of the 3 to 5% axis. As the public debate is still going on, the assessment of the resources is not complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr Slavko Gaber will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Students and students sent a clear message to the government yesterday. I think we all understand together that they want to agree on important issues for them with this existing Slovenian government. Of course, it makes sense for them to be concerned about their fate, because there are some open issues in the area of higher education, as may be strange to hear, even a very state-of-the-art concern, about the future of this country. I understand, Mr Minister, that today, more or less, all the big promises made in the pre-election period on free education have been made to improve the situation of all people, especially the young population in society. It was then possible to speak primarily to sow illusions so that they could come into power. Today you need to solve a large number of very specific issues and you have found that there are conflicting interests in this. It is clear to me that you will not be able to meet all the requirements, and it has never been possible to meet them. What students and students are very obviously interested in and interested in is: When are you going to say clearly that you will not introduce tuition from the first year ahead, not even postponed? When are you gonna say you're not taxing college work? And when will you establish at least one of the quality assurance mechanisms in higher education in this country? So when are you going to form the agency that the law requires you to set up? Today, your great leader here has extensively explained how the laws are for us to respect them. I ask you, Mr. Minister, why do you obviously not respect marriage? How long do you plan to do this?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Member, the question that has been asked in writing is a little different than the question that you have asked orally, but I will answer in kind if I miss something and then you will complete it. The fact is, students had a so-called meeting yesterday, where there were 7,000 students and students, according to official data, of course. And they agreed on their problems, I think they understood the problems differently. It is undeniable, however, that they are interested in their future and that their future is of interest to us. We believe that students and, above all, the knowledge they acquire is an investment in the future. So, for us, investing in the future is not just studying, but learning something, that is, background knowledge, competences, which means that students need to study and, above all, acquire knowledge and competences. That's what's central. Of course, they need to be provided with quality and, of course, we all agree here. The fact is that we continued our discussions with them today. So if the essence of your question, which was, when we intend to continue our dialogue with the student organisation of Slovenia, I can answer that we have already had a three-hour conversation today. In view of this, including past experiences and even today’s, discussions are starting, although, of course, we want these to be conversations, not exclusion or conditionality, so that if we do not accept something, we will no longer talk. This is just one of the possible methods, and we disagree with it and want to make a deal, and of course we agree. You've even asked for student questions. I'm glad you're their advocate, which is what we are. But the fact is, in the many points they have highlighted, we agree on both students and our government. For example, 20,000 scholarships are one of the things we stand on, including regulating health issues, regulating Bologna issues, regulating better study conditions, mobility and so on. In short, the issues we agree on are very large. On some issues, of course, we diverge. And you asked the question when we'd say something. The fact is that the government has adopted a specific programme of measures, has adopted certain guidelines and, of course, we are negotiating with students in this regard, and this is one of the things. Now we're speculating on tuition. We have written that we are advocating that there will be no tuition, and in the current proposal of the law in the procedure, we anticipate that there will be no tuition at the first and second rates of Bologna. This is now envisaged, contrary to the law that you have proposed and which has been adopted, that in the fifth year of the second Bologna level it is necessary to pay tuition for all students, except one third of those who are socially at risk, and that definition of those at risk is very poor, so that it cannot be determined who are entitled. In the Coalition Treaty, we also continue to commit ourselves to discussing how to reduce the ever-increasing cost of schooling in the most painful way or how best to make it easier for students to get their tuition as much as possible. So, there's a schoolwork debate to be held. And this is what we want, nothing else - a debate between the social partners, among all, students and the government, how and what opportunities there are for this. If it turns out that the possibility is absolutely not that they are economically unjustifiable, of course we will not insist on it. However, we want to talk about this and we cannot agree to these demands that students have, that we do not talk about it at all, because this is an exclusive requirement of students and we believe that this is what prevents the signing of the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will allow the Minister to respond. I didn't ask him a lot of questions. Since you and the Minister of the Interior were chatting, he probably thought I had asked him several questions - only three, Mr Minister. I welcome the opening of the talks. I think it would be even better if we had started these conversations a long time ago. I don't need to be a student advocate, and it's clear to you that we've talked about this in public together, that I don't even think that all the demands can be met. I asked you something very specific, other demands will be taken care of by the students. Yesterday we saw that they were quite good advocates of their own interests, so it does not show concern. So I asked you: Is the government willing to make it clear that schooling, even postponed schooling, will not be introduced? If you didn't understand that students told you very clearly that they don't fit in, then I'm worried because I think we're going to have major conflicts in the future between the government and the student population. We're good with France, and it's gonna be bad. You didn't answer my question: Did you give up your tax and quit your student work? And third: When will you, Mr. Minister, step out of the position of manifest violation of the law on higher education? The law requires you to set up a quality assurance agency by the end of last year, and please don't tell me that you will do so in a very timely time, because you have been telling me this for several months, and I am reading in newspapers a public debate between people from the top of the coalition on this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much for the additional questions. As far as tuition is concerned. This is about deferred tuition and the fact is that we want to talk about it, and I do not think that the government can explicitly say that it will not introduce it. It is clear, though, that we want to talk about the possibilities and want to talk about problems that are and not to answer some of the problems that we will never do. We too advocate that there be no more if we had enough money. In 65% of the university population, this is almost impossible. The second issue was in the field of tax legislation. All citizens of Slovenia are likely willing to be treated in the same way in legislation from the point of view of taxes. In particular, tax legislation may not be part of my department, but we agree in principle that a group cannot be exempt from general tax legislation. As far as the third is concerned, that's what the agency calls it. I regret to say, let us hope that this law will be passed in May. That's how I can answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I propose that the reply of the Minister of Higher Education be discussed in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure in this National Assembly. Allow me to base my proposal. It seems to me that the logic of the government's and the Minister's exit is such that it appears to be serious to talk about because it can produce too many problems in this country. It can happen that we will lead young generations into dealing mainly with issues of power abuse, rather than dealing with the study process, which is most important, and here we agree with the Minister if we really want to help the future of this country. I hope, Minister, that you will support this proposal to discuss the future of higher education here seriously - the shared responsibility of both the opposition and the opposition is this - and that by the time we discuss this in the future, you will already be able to answer this fundamental question: Are we really in such a financial situation in Slovenia that we need to force people, on the one hand, into schools, on the other hand into the system of apprentices and into an unimaginable number, and I do not think, particularly in the public interest, the deliberate introduction of private universities and universities in Slovenia at the same time? We already have a few ideas, and we would like to discuss these issues together.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Slavko Gabra's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jožef Horvat has a question for the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Nice greetings to all who accompany this meeting. My question to the distinguished Minister, Dr. Lovr Sturm, will not refer to any long-term future, how it will be, but will refer to the facts that have happened, which are listed, which are also financially evaluated. On Thursday, 13 April, which was unfortunately a sad day for Slovenia, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg reissued its judgment on 24 cases of complaints against the Republic of Slovenia concerning a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. To date, the number of judgments of the European Court is approaching 100 and is expected to be around 300 by the end of the year. The total amount of compensation money has already cost Slovenia almost 40 million Slovenian tolars this year alone, and recent judgments point to an alarming increase in compensation. A great deal of financial burden due to the judicial backlog will be borne by all Slovenian taxpayers. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, how did such extremely large judicial backlogs come about, and why does the state now have to pay compensation? I sincerely thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u100	Mr. Minister, Dr. Sturm, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for the question raised to the honourable Member and a very nice greeting also to all those who accompany us directly, as well as through the receivers. Indeed, last week we have accepted, I will just say, a simple new shipment of European Court of Human Rights judgments. Just the fact that there is a holiday in the European Court this week due to Easter holidays, we should like to thank you that we have not accepted a similar shipment today. But next week, we can expect it again Thursday. The fact is that these are damages that the European Court of Human Rights has been awarded for the slow trial of the courts or for the slow resolution of legal disputes. And the fact is that it goes on in all of these cases, which have been judged so far and which will also be judged by the end of this year, and as you yourself have mentioned, honourable Member, there are still some 100 such cases. All these cases were brought before the European Court of Justice in 2000, 2001, 2002 and all concerned the period of the previous Government. Today, if we look at the reasons behind the beginning of judicial backlogs, we can see that the main reasons have occurred in the 1990s. In 1994 and 1995, there was a poorly conceived and superficial reorganisation of the judiciary with major organisational and personnel changes in the judiciary. The perpetuity of the judges before and after these reforms has fallen for understandable reasons, which has been reflected not least in the great fluctuation of judges. In 1994-1997, let me just say the case, the employment in the District Court in Ljubljana, which is one of those courts that has the largest number of judicial backlogs, in some periods only 40%, has been improved to 50%, and 60%, but 60%, if the court is so poorly staffed, of course it can't handle cases. And if no one in the government and no one in charge then takes this into account, it must necessarily be reflected in the accumulation and accumulation of judicial records and in a large number of outstanding cases. This, of course, results in convictions, as stated today by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Today we are paying a bill for what the previous government, in particular the government, and part of the blame is in court or have not done from 1993 to 1999. And since then, all of these unsolved cases have been brought to justice, since all of these unsolved cases, which are now ending in Strasbourg, have been unresolved since 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and so on until they have filed an appropriate application in Strasbourg. And the Strasbourke court didn't judge him right away, but now it's starting to judge very effectively. Let me also say what is not to be forgotten is that the situation of the Presidents of the Courts following the reorganisation at the time was very uncertain, as reflected also in the fact that the Supreme Court was in the most critical period of time, which was in 1995 and 1997, when the crisis was the largest, without the President. It must also have contributed to poor reorganisation by the fact that the mobility of judges after the 1994 reorganisation between the courts was virtually disabled and the first revisions were only introduced by law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which has already been accepted by the honourable Members and where we have also allowed greater mobility between the Courts of First Instance. It is said that this deficiency has been resolved in the meantime.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u102	Mr Minister, you will be able to answer the time, because the Member of Parliament is likely to ask for further explanations. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for once, Mr. Secretary-General. Please also allow me to present to you the supplementary question of the average Slovenian taxpayer. Whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and you, as Minister of Justice, have any possibility, of course, that an account received from the Republic of Slovenia from the European Court of Human Rights should be addressed to the specifically responsible persons who are likely to be identified as responsible for causing a violation of the human right to a trial within a reasonable time, causing additional pain today, as the empty pockets of taxpayers appear to be missing and not to see the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that a Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request an additional reply but cannot ask an additional question. This has already been warned at the beginning of today's session and I ask you very much if you will stick to it. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. While direct liability for compensation is provided for in existing legislation, only if the damage was caused on purpose or because of gross negligence. This is certainly a matter worth considering and perhaps in some specific cases could also be taken into account. But let me take this few more minutes, which I have at my disposal to say, however, that last year, when we adopted the first judgment of the European Court, the government responded immediately in October 2005. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a programme of measures to remedy judicial backlogs, and for the first time in the Government’s vocabulary, the word “removal” has been used. So far, all the debates that have taken place in the well-respected National Assembly and in the Committees of the National Assembly on this subject have only talked about the possibilities for reducing judicial backlogs, and no one has talked about the removal. We used this word for the first time last year, prepared a programme for the abolition of judicial arrears no later than five years ago, and the government has already translated the key starting points of the programme for the abolition of judicial backlogs in last year into a programme of very important measures for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy for Development in Slovenia, all of which happened in October and even a few weeks later in the programme of measures for the development of Slovenia and for increased prosperity in Slovenia. The main measures to remedy the judicial arrears are listed here and are already being implemented. It is understandable that the government cannot remedy the delays, only judges can do so. The Ministry of Justice and the Government can only create conditions for a more efficient part of the courts, for higher court performance, for less complex proceedings in the functioning of the courts, for information on the functioning of the judicial authorities, and in this regard also for an effective and more accelerated trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you. Dear Mr. Secretary! On Wednesday 12 April this year, an expert consultation was held at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana on the subject of criminal law on the general dangerous perpetrator of the crime, where one of the conclusions was that in the case of Plut there was sufficient legal basis for timely action. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: What do you think about the statement made by the Assistant Director of the Criminal Police Administration on this matter that the measures offered by our law have not been fully exploited in the case of Plut. Have you already identified the nature of the police and prosecution meeting on 12.7. last year, when, according to the Director General of Police, the Roma Prosecutor's Office was informed of the Plut case and the Prosecutor's Office should therefore proceed on an official basis, and the Attorney General argued that it was only a matter of working advice on how to obtain the necessary documentation from the Serbian authorities? How far are you from preparing an internal surveillance report on the police's work in the Plut case? Is that what your answer to my question today is, all you've got so far? By the way, I sent you a written question on 2 March this year and received it today with a three-week delay. It follows from your written reply today that the police did nothing between April and December last year about the alleged murder in Serbia, so 8 months nothing. It is obvious that the period during which Pluto was detained due to reasonable suspicion that he committed a crime of robbery. Apparently, the police have abandoned all initiatives and wills during this period to continue the process of obtaining relevant information from Serbia for the submission of a new complaint, although they should be aware that Plut may be released and released due to the lack of evidence of a robbery in Slovenia. On the basis of a new indictment, he could be held in custody and thus prevented from committing a horrendous murder on the Yankees. So what do you think of that, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u108	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I would first touch on that first question, but I may have said earlier that, in view of the oral question that I have received in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the question that I have received here today, there is something that is discriminatory and I will still try to answer all the questions that have been raised. First of all, this consultation, which took place in a law school where a large number of experts from various fields, including the police, participated, led to certain conclusions. I did not attend this meeting alone, and it is very difficult to know what the criminalist in question had in mind when he expressed his opinion. The conclusion you have mentioned that our legal system could allow for greater action is probably correct and I expect that the comprehensive investigation to be carried out within the Ministry of Internal Affairs within the police and within the Prosecutor's Office will lead to an answer where and if there has been any mistake and which parts have not been used to the extent that they could be. With regard to the question concerning the meeting of 12.7., which was held with V.D. The Head of the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana, and your statements concerning the interpretation of the report which was sent by the Ministry of the Interior to the competent working body of Parliament, I do not think that the same event has been commented on at the outset. At the meeting where we were present, I was at it myself, there was talk of a meeting that took place in the New Town Court - you quoted another meeting - and today they informed me what was going on at this meeting. Otherwise, I do not receive such reports on my desk, and it is because of your question that they have served me with this information, which I will of course tell you. On 12.7. a meeting took place between V.D. a district prosecutor in Ljubljana and a criminalist who presented the initiative of the police of Serbia and Montenegro, who wanted to have an interview with detainor Silva Pluto on the commission of crimes that was to take place in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The prosecutor warned that she was unable to do so at the moment and directed the criminalist towards the head of the county court's criminal department in Ljubljana. At the interview, which was then held at the District Court in Ljubljana, the police were reminded of Article 515 of the Penal Code. Somehow they have been directed to allow interviews with the detainee only to take place within the framework of the International Legal Aid Institute and not only at the initiative of the police from Serbia and Montenegro. With regard to the supervision introduced by the Ministry of the Interior. You all know that surveillance was introduced in 3.3 this year. I must say, surveillance is very extensive. Not only documents, communications between the two Interpols, are being examined, all other documents are being examined, not only from 23.4., when the first communication between the two Interpols was established, but all documents are being verified, practically from the day that the appointed gentleman was conditionally released, and all the activities that have taken place in this regard. The Monitoring Group is slowly concluding the work, so I think that within a time limit that has also been given by the Parliamentary Committee to the government to submit a report so that by then the matter will be prepared and presented as necessary. About the work you were talking about about what the police didn't do, of course, I'm a little surprised. You have to have very good information, very accurate information, what someone was doing somewhere; I don't have it either, because I don't have access to operational data. Therefore, I cannot agree with your assessment that the police were passive and inactive in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Minister, you yourself said that you would have to report on internal police control there around 16 June, or that is the deadline when the committee expects a report on your business, if I may say so, in this matter, Plut. However, I am surprised that you believe that we can be satisfied - I also mean the wider Slovenian public - with such a formalistic response. Even in today's written reply I received, this reply quotes individual articles of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, and it also misinterprets them, in particular Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act. At the same time, this report merely seeks excuses for why the police have not done something, what they should have done, why they have not done it in time, or why they have abandoned every single logical act. There is certainly a need for further changes in criminal law, but all the criminal law professions are already claiming that it has already been possible to act more appropriately and effectively on the basis of the current legislation. Dr. Fischer, a recognised expert in criminal law, argued, for example, that the principle of efficiency was forgotten, which states that a country which has and exercises power over a suspect must take primary action. That is why I am interested, Mr. Minister: Who do you think is responsible for all this incompetence, incompetence and if you also want "slamparia" in the so-called Plut case? This would be really interesting to hear, because at least what it is also raises the question of your objective responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u112	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thanks for the extra question. I'll start at the end where you talk about who he is and if someone is responsible for the wrong procedures or for not doing any work. Of course I do if I do. It is clear that the whole process and all activities have been operationally monitored by the General Police Directorate of the Criminal Police, from which I have also received an oral assurance that they are doing everything in accordance with the law and that they will carry out all the measures that the Slovenian police can use in accordance with our legislation. I don't have access to operational data on my own, as you know, in accordance with the law and operational matters. The meeting, which I also explained, I think for the last time on the Committee and also in writing, was of such nature that I only asked if things were working and if they were running in the right direction and I got twice the assurance that everything was being done in accordance with the legislation. However, I cannot, of course, accept the claim that the police have not done everything until I have received the final report. Only after the final report will I be able to assess whether the police have taken advantage of all the options they had in this regard, and then I will be able to make further decisions, which I will undoubtedly take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology will be asked a question by Mrs Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, good day to all present. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! I'm gonna ask a very similar question as Dr. Gaber's colleague, but I can't help, I didn't know. Yesterday we witnessed a warning meeting of students where they expressed some specific requests and questions to which they expected answers. One of the specific topics was the possibility of introducing tuition. And this question has been in the air for some time now, and clear answers have not yet been received from students or others interested. When it comes to the issue of tuition, it is important to realize that free higher education is one of the great advantages of Slovenia, as it also allows children of less wealthy parents to study. Wide access to education is essential if we want to become a knowledge-based society that creates its competitiveness with knowledge. Uncertainty about paying the study is certainly not a good way to create such a company. From your public statements so far, Mr Minister, it is not possible to exclude the direction in which the ship will turn on this issue. For once you explain that the study will be free of charge, secondly that the participation of students in the cost of the study will be necessary because budget options do not allow for a full free study. If he holds the second one, after a bad two years of rule of the right coalition, we have come into a position where we are already running out of money for education and thus creating a knowledge society, and we have enough money for controversial military missions, expensive summers and the lodging of some ministers. I would expect and I think it would be right for the Minister to speak openly about the future work of financing higher education and to support his proposals with arguments. Instead, we are witnessing a situation where partial and contradictory information that creates confusion is being made public because no one knows what the government's actual intentions are in this area. It would be good to discuss such issues with the social partners and students and to make the appropriate decision together. However, no solution is acceptable, which does not take into account the social aspect, which in practice would mean a decrease in accessibility to study. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Minister: What are the government plans for funding the study in Slovenia? Studying as a public good will also be free of charge under this government or you intend to introduce co-financing in the form of tuition. If so, what kind and height of tuition do you plan to introduce, and when? To what extent do you intend to take into account dialogue with the social partners or the public when deciding to introduce tuition? When will you invest in the National Higher Education Programme for the period 2006 to 2010 in the National Assembly? How will you define how to finance higher education? In the framework of the development partnership, will you also invite opposition parties who have signed the partnership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The question was similar, but it was significantly more decided and weighted than the previous one. This is the area of financing the entire higher education system in Slovenia. And the essential question here, as I believe, has been set up, studies as public goods, or will it remain free? The fact is, in a sense, we need to define what public goods are. We believe that public goods on their own as such do not include the fact that public goods must be free of charge. The fact is that public goods are indeed something that is accessible to all citizens and we believe that higher education must be accessible to all citizens and citizens under the same conditions, of course, given that certain conditions have been achieved, such as secondary school and so on, respectively. We agree with that. We also agree that investment in higher education is an investment in our future, so investment in study is necessary. The problem is that these funds are growing as an increase in the number of students and 65% or 66%, two thirds of the schooling generation, of course this cost is high. Public goods, such as air, clean air, or water, can also be called, and likewise needs to be maintained, so public education must be maintained. And as the costs go up, we start to wonder how much someone has to contribute. We're going to do our best, the coalition contract explicitly says we're going to do our best and we're going to try to make it free. Of course, as people who are aware of responsibility, we must also start social dialogue with partners, and this answers this question. Clearly, social dialogue is important, clearly that we will talk to students, we want to talk to students. The problem is that some people don't even want to talk about the problem. We want to talk and we will involve them in this discussion. As far as tuition is concerned. We do not think that tuition should be paid, we are talking about deferred tuition, that is to say that the tuition actually withdraws as a tax later, when the one who graduated, who finished school, and who achieved a certain level of earnings, only then gets ripped off at the tax so much and so. If for any reason, even when he graduated, he is unable to pay, he does not have that kind of income, he is sick, he has no employment, he has too much family, however, he does not get nothing. That's when the state pays his tuition. This means that there is no risk of social status. That's all we talk about. That's what I want to stress. Next, as regards the National Higher Education Programme. He was ready in January and February. In some points it was also sent to students and we had a dialogue with students, the basic point for drafting the law. In this month, by mid-April, the working group which had prepared a national higher education programme in the sense that, as it is called, it had been revised editorially and will now be in this month, I think it should be on April 15th, and because of some diseases it has been delayed for a few days and will be in public debate. And of course, I stress, of course, that everyone - we do not know - would imagine that the national higher education programme would not go through the discussion of all stakeholders. Anyone interested will be invited to discuss it. We will have an open website to make comments and then coordinate. I don't see any trouble here not talking. All we want to talk about is how to do this or how to get closer to this problem of tuition, which is one of the options, through public debate. And as I told Mr Gaber earlier, if there is absolute disagreement, if no one agrees, and, of course, provided that we arrange the scholarships first, that we will arrange the student homes first, then we will talk about things. These are our intentions. However, I said earlier about the law that the current law we are preparing ensures that the first two stages are free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u119	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly discuss this. I believe that this is a topic that is certainly of interest to the entire Slovenian public, whether it is for us who have already completed high school education, or for those who, as parents, we finance our children's higher education studies, or for students, most certainly, I am sure that is of interest to high school students. Therefore, it is also reasonable and understandable that three quarters of secondary school students and a minority of students were present yesterday, because students can be confident that they will not have to pay their tuition fees, but that high school students may already be victims of future changes in neoliberal legislation that will make differences between rich and poor. I think it's a topic that the National Assembly would be right to discuss in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the Member, Ms Brede Pečan, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to her question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Minister of Economy will be raised by Mr Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Welcome to the ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and the new launch of the Lisbon Strategy, strong emphasis is placed on development activities. Increased funding for research and development activities is foreseen. For future development agents, activities are envisaged in order to increase the study of science and technology. In Slovenia the picture in this area is very unpleasant. During the Minister Gabra's ministry, the share of sociologists increased from 7,400 students to 9,700 and, of course, at the expense of science and technology. It was only at the time of the Minister of the current Ministers, Mr Zupan and Mr Zver, that this trend was reversed after an ambitious promotion programme for science and technology. The increase in the number of students in science and technology in this year's prescribing is thus 500 more, in total for the next year, when we talk about 5,400 students, they offer good opportunities for a development leap in the next three to five years when these students finish their studies and take over the tasks of development research projects. With increased interest in the development directions of the study or for the science and technology directions, we have done only half of the tasks. The second part begins in the workplace. And there's still kind of everything that's been going on. A developing worker is still in a subordinate, less favourable position than a sociologist. This is known in terms of salary, position in the company and influence on decision-making. The climate in businesses must therefore also change in order to make development a success. On the basis of the above, I ask the following questions: What measures will be envisaged with regard to better research orientation and philosophy or research climate in companies? How to guide the labour market in order to continue the trend of increasing interest in a demanding study of natural sciences? How to increase the importance of development in companies or how to create the conditions for the creation of private research centres that will market knowledge and research for known ones, especially smaller companies for which cooperation with the external institution will be cheaper than their own development department or I am talking about the so-called outsourcing of research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Dr. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The question was, in fact, divided into three sub-questions. I will try to answer all three questions at this time. However, the issue is linked so that in some ways it is difficult to simply group the answers to these questions. If we're going straight. It is said that what measures have been taken or what measures have been taken to ensure better research orientation and the actual research climate in companies. For this we have and are already implementing five different measures at our Ministry, each of which follows in a call for precise purposes. What is most important is the initial position of the Slovenian industry, Slovenian companies in terms of innovation. Here, unfortunately, it is necessary to say that out of 100 companies in Slovenia there are only 21 who work innovatively. Of these 20 companies there are 11 large companies, 6 medium-sized enterprises and only 3 companies are small businesses and are innovative at the same time. And this is what is in our midst of the core or target, where we want to focus our efforts on our calls to provide small businesses with that research infrastructure and that research incentive to be able to explore or to desire the results of their research work. There is, of course, a problem because small businesses do not have sufficient capacity and resources to do so. Therefore, we have prepared the following tenders. Call for proposals to promote research strategic development projects in companies from 2006 to 2007. This project has already been completed on 10.4.2006 and we expect that we will give certain resources in this area so that the company can develop to make a small research unit. Second call for incentives in the EVREKA programme. This one is open and is still open until 4 May 2006. The purpose of the call is to encourage Slovenian companies, it is said to give them some means to join European large enterprises in the EVREKA programmes and to reach technology with joint European companies, to learn and to explore to a certain extent. The third public call we are talking about is the promotion of Slovenian technology platforms in 2006. Although that word is a platform, I already said it's gloriously bad, but everyone uses it. The platform is essentially an association of manufacturers of the same category or the same interests, such as having a platform of plastics, tools, a platform for making car parts, robotics, etc. These platforms are created by companies with the same circle of interest in research. These platforms combine transnationally in Europe into European platforms in countries. It is important that our companies join these platforms, then jointly create a policy of the Seventh Framework Programme, which then finances exactly what companies want, and if our companies are not involved, they will not know what is being financed, or even propose their own programmes, and that is why it is necessary to unite on the platform. And that's why we're giving money and the invitation to tender is open. Fifthly, an invitation to tender for the financing of work organisations supporting innovation is said to be for all innovations. Sixth public invitation to finance the training of young researchers for the economy to obtain a doctorate in science. Here we finance three years of young people to be employed in the company, it is said, we pay him a salary and a part of the costs for his research. The only condition is that the company enters into an agreement with the university or institute and this young person then makes a doctorate in the field and this is also the condition of the company's operation, and we want to combine all this innovative activity. If we go to the second point now. That's it. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] All I can say is that the invitation was made for 27 million tolars. [[..]] Here I would like to reply in point 3, tax relief for R & D companies. It is also very important that any contract relating to research and development can deduct 20% from taxes, which was also the result of the work of Mr Bajuk, Finance Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you very much. There is no time left for the Minister of Economy to reply, so we are going over. Do you want any further explanation? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u125	What if I could give the Minister of the Economy some extra time with this?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. Dear Vice President! Of course, I would not repeat the words spoken by the Member, how important it is to unite and, in fact, to bridge the gap between knowledge that is concentrated in higher education institutions, in the development and research institutions and in the economy. This is an extremely important issue of how to cross this gap, how to build bridges here and how to distribute knowledge and personnel as effectively as possible from one direction to the other. I think that one of the extremely important issues arising from the strategic direction of this government is that we want to decentralise higher education and also the development and research institutions in Slovenia. We want to see the establishment of new higher education institutions where economic interest is so strong that this critical mass of adequate staff and adequate demand for graduates is also present. This will also ensure greater contact between the economy and the development and research sphere and, last but not least, the cooperation of the economy with these institutions. Of course, at the Ministry of the Economy we have a number of calls to support development and research projects, how to increase investment in development through new investments. Just one call is up to date, it is open, which even stimulates the integration of economic operators with development and research institutions in technological modernisation development and research projects to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Of course, we also have other projects, but I think it is important that we start with concrete measures to reduce this gap between science and the economy. This is a process that will last. As soon as we get started, there'll be results. I believe that the results will be soon, as the intensity of this integration is greater. And even when we visit regions, we find that some companies have already learned this necessity if they want to stay in the long run, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They must also, of course, invest and connect with development and research institutions. [[...]] Where these are also costs-related matters, we also want to reduce these costs by means of these calls.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr Davorin Terčon will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary. I am already in the previous term, and in previous mandates, I have become very involved in the problem of Lipica. It is true that there has also been no significant progress in the past mandates in the rescue of Lipica, even because the coalition was a prisoner of the People's Party, which has always been its own feud of the agricultural area under which Lipica belonged, "split" itself. When the new power came, of course, I expected that there would be changes, not immediately, because we are not possible, but that they will be. After a year and a half, it's time to ask what happened. Especially because recent events show that things are going back instead. If I go in line. The amendment of the law is prepared to such an extent that it is not sufficient, is prepared only for the purpose of expanding the golf course, is prepared for further expansion of the preserved area with an influential area and is prepared to reduce the herd in essence but not to increase. Further measures, which are announced, rationalisation, as necessary, raises concerns because it is not only a matter of solving redundant workers with retirement, but also a solution by threatening to quit, by throwing workers on the road. Here the question is whether workers' rights will be violated or not to repeat a story with lawsuits where Lipica will pay extra for reckless moves. The co-existence of tourism and basic horsery activities remains an essential issue. This question is not solved. In fact, it's only sharpening. And I must say that on 13 April, the government adopted a programme of protection and development for this period, which is more up to date than has been done before. However, it sees a fraction, in this programme of protection and development, special attention is once again focused primarily on golf and not only on golf, but also on the financial work this year, a huge amount of funding for the expansion of golf, not on the basic activity of the horsemaker. Mr. Minister, I ask: under what criteria has this been so established? Why was it stipulated that there was an advantage in golf instead of in horseback? Whose funds will finance this golf course in Lipica, and why? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u130	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My answer is next. At its meeting on 13 April, the government adopted the programme for the protection and development of the Kobilar Lipica for the period 2006-2010. In this way, the government has expressed a very clear view that the preservation of the values of the protected area as a cultural monument and its original activity, i.e. the formation of the Lipicas, is the most important mission of the Kobiliar Lipica. From this programme of protection and development of the Kobar Lipica this follows clearly and clearly. The Golf you are talking about is focused on, but not so much so that you can claim that the focus is on this. In addition, the programme for the protection and development of Kobar Lipica foresees that Kobar Lipica must improve, in particular, the part of the tourist offer based on horses and horses. We do not argue what is suggested in your question that the enlargement of the golf course for the marketing of the Lipica cobial market is more important than the investment in the basic programme of the Lipica cobial plant itself, but we claim that we see in certain sports activities an important addition to the tourist offer. And last but not least, such an opinion has been applied in recent years. Golf is therefore mentioned in the protection and development programme as one of the complementary activities allowing the Kobalina Lipica to form a circular tourist offer. The balance sheet of the Kobilar Lipica in recent years also shows a steady decline in this tourist activity and the hotel use itself, the constant decline in the number of nights. The meeting of hotels Lipica is critical, Hotel Club has 13% employment, Maestrozo 53% and these numbers and the extremely poor business of Kobilar Lipica in the previous year, when it had 200 million losses in the catering and tourism unit, suggest that Kobala Lipica messes up everything that is possible, that the financial situation is recuperated and that it avoids the spilling of public service resources to cover the loss in the tourist area. With regard to the issue of finance and where and how the rehabilitation of the golf course will be financed if you want, and the regulation of the grasslands in particular, the Ministry of Education and Sport, within the framework of the Structural Funds, has reported this project. It is a project that is supposed to allow for the rehabilitation of the playground, then in particular the purchase of machinery for the management of pastures and playgrounds, the arrangement of pastures themselves, the rehabilitation and planting of trees, the arrangement of fences. All the necessary opinions and consensus were obtained to carry out the intervention, including the consent of the Institute for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage of Slovenia, the Regional Unit of Nova Gorica. It is therefore the funds of the Structural Funds, which in no way allow for any expansion, of any other activity as it is now there. In addition, the Ministry of Culture for the Restoration of Cultural Heritage in the Protected Area in 2006 will also allocate 21 million funds from the so-called Cultural Tolar, and we expect a positive response to the invitation of the Kobilar Lipica to the so-called Norwegian Mechanism, where Slovenia will receive about 360 million dollars for the organisation of the Lipica Museum, which includes a wider presentation of Lipica and its cultural heritage. The project is expected to take place in the next three years. The programme for the protection of the development of the Lipica co-balancing plant provides for other activities, i.e. the renovation of hotels and so on, only in 2008, since they have the advantage of the investment I previously mentioned, i.e. investment in the basic activity, namely horse husbandry and protection of cultural heritage and the environment. For example, this is a cleaning plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u132	Please, Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So a lot of gilded words, Mr. Secretary, all heard and a lot of scheming. First of all, as far as cohabiting with tourism and horse labor is concerned. I haven't always been a priority against cohabitation. As you know, I've already had marriage proposals where we might have established co-existence, but that didn't go through. And now it is undeniably established that these conflicts will be repeated. Then why don't you make a decision to withdraw the tourist work, to put it somewhere near where the municipality of Sežana agrees, to Kras, and to develop a state cobial with state aid. This will be slightly more expensive than it is now, but significantly cheaper than the damage that is being done now. As far as golf money's concerned. Minister, all European funds require State participation. That's exactly what it's gonna take for golf. And I'm asking you, why don't you put in the basic activity instead of golfing? I can only understand this: with the taxpayer's money it will be done in Lipica golf course, which is not done anywhere in the world so that February can play golf there. Yesterday we watched a high academic, philosophical round table, where the Krašovts were not even present, not even the destination Kras was mentioned. Great politicians, academics have been philosophical about Lipica for 15 years, and I can finally see that 400 years ago, the Austrian court was much better able to deal with this. Finally, I can find that under socialist Yugoslavia, in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, when the director was still Franetič, when the Krašovci controlled Lipica themselves, everything was not ideal, but it was better than now when he managed Ljubljana with Lipica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u134	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. It's interesting to think that socialism was better. Now we're talking about big sedition and tourist activities. I just wanted to tell you that, with regard to the Structural Funds and state participation, it is the Ministry of Education that has declared this. However, it is a matter of resources, as I said, for the existing and no expansion of golf from these structural funds. At the same time, it is a matter of enabling - and no one wants to hear it, and we keep repeating - for existing playgrounds, which we will not in any way extend from these structural funds, which are thought to have been reported by the Ministry of Education, while at the same time for the rehabilitation or restoration of pastures that have been neglected in recent years. And interestingly enough, no one talked about it last year, either before last year or three years ago. There is 100 hectares of cultivated pastures within the protected area. And interestingly enough, no one spoke about it; now everyone is talking about golf. It's 100 hectares of pasture that we're going to rebuild with these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u136	Please. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u137	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the rules of procedure, I propose that this issue be discussed in the National Assembly. For your reasons, Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you this. We do not need any academic education to determine that part of the land in the protected area is infested. Nor is it true what they say on the round tables that there is a typical karst landscape. That's what we all know, the typical karst landscape outside the protected area. During a period of time, drilling and dry land, including golf, were excavated in the protected area. But it is true that under the monarchy and under the socialism of Lipica, horses and people in Lipica were better than today. And since these problems need to be highlighted, Mr President, I propose procedurally that the debate be held, as I have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Davorin Terchón to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to his question on Lipica will be decided by the State Assembly in the context of tomorrow's vote. Mr Srečko Friend will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have already sent this question in writing to the Minister of Home Affairs twice - I have received the correct answer, I must admit that - but this problem is not resolved satisfactorily. It is the local community of Kozina or the congregation of Kozina. Two streets are closed there. On one street the citizens brought a big rock - it's an incredible story, but it's true - they put it on the street and left it there. This street isn't clear. On the second street, a false decision, thus answered by the minister, simply set up a prison and closed the Vodovodno street. I don't know why the mayor of Kozina allowed it, how he could have done it, but that's true. I speak with a smile on my mouth because it's simply impossible to understand. Now on Kozina, some have the privilege of using this street as a parking lot and a secured playground for their children, while others cannot even reach their own plots, so they have to travel 10 kilometers. I ask the distinguished minister: Why can't we gather enough common sense, strength and will to remove these obstacles? We take away the rock and the physical barrier that is placed there, actually dismantle and in some way remove the inhabitants of Kozina by putting the right signs - the ban on traffic in the street, except for local traffic - and put traffic barriers there, such as flowerbeds or lying cops. It is also incomprehensible that there are disagreements and physical accounts in this city. The Minister responds to me that, while he has found that the decision has been unlawfully and illegally issued, no decision shall be taken on behalf of the transport authority or on behalf of the competent transport authority under this number. On the other hand, it's not his jurisdiction, and I don't know who should take care of it. Of course, another street is not a reflection of democracy. I don't know why this can be tolerated in our society or how this is even possible. Dear Minister! With all due respect, I ask you, tell me: Will we be able to establish a legal and legitimate situation in the municipality of Kozina in terms of traffic flows across two streets, which should actually be normally accessible and open? Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u140	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking. I don't know why we get one day earlier on paper written, what are you going to ask us, and then you ask us something completely different than the question sent. The questions you have sent me are very abstract and do not speak of anything specific. Now, however, I have received a very specific question, which I have already received twice as a written question, and I have answered it very correctly. Nevertheless, I would touch on some indications that there will be no confusion and that the viewers watching this broadcast today will not get the wrong impression of what is happening in Kozina. It is very clear that the construction of two buildings on this street, which the gentleman mentioned, was granted their building permit on the basis of a document which speaks of the fact that this street will never be transitory and that there will be no access to the main road. If we look at the documents that were signed when they took over this facility, it is very clear in point 6: Koper Road Company, the physical closures are placed at the end of the import route and the connection to Koper-Ljubljana Highway is avoided. I would like to make it very clear about the powers and powers of the police and the Ministry of the Interior as regards roads in the Republic of Slovenia. We do not have any powers by putting obstacles or removing them. Police are obliged, when an obstacle is detected on the road, to secure the place, to call competent services to remove it, even if we are not trained, to have no equipment to remove such obstacles, and if necessary - to direct traffic for so long that traffic runs safely on a certain road and then to act against someone who may have done so illegally. With regard to the decision referred to above, I must say that the police have acted in accordance with the law, found what they have found in relation to this decision and filed a criminal complaint against a known person, under section 265/1 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and this appeal is with the competent district prosecutor who will proceed, and here our jurisdiction ends, we can only prepare an appropriate criminal complaint and this article speaks of the forgery or destruction of the official document. About the rock that was mentioned, it's a really interesting story, this rock has been standing there for 21 years, and it's been there all this time. The road this rock is supposed to be on is not a road, but there's a smaller import route. Even when removing this rock, which is not within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, there would be a normal path for two-wheeled vehicles. The national roads, regional roads and those for which the Republic of Slovenia is responsible by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia are fully responsible for regulating this area. The municipal roads, however, are the responsibility of the congregation. I am very sorry that we cannot solve this issue here today, but in the congregation we must resolve this issue and settle everything that is necessary so that this road may possibly join the highway, which in this part allows for speed of about 90 kilometers per hour. And I think it's necessary to invest a little bit of money in making sure that this road could safely join the highway that passes by this road that you described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u143	Of course I do. Dear Minister, this document, which you have read, comes from 1986, is true, you are sneezing, and it is a pre-delivery record of the transfer of the apartment to the users. You know, this street, the water street that we're talking about is closed, has been closed since 2004. And I would ask you not to talk about any decision, if that decision is not the case, you yourself have found in your reply that the decision is a fake. That's the first one. The second thing I want to say is, it's not 20 years or how long you've stated that this rock is there. This was brought in a while ago, of course it's a few years ago, and if it's like, I'll say so in saying, of course, the minister's cop normally, that there's a rock on some street, it's left there because someone will provide less noise around their house, if that's normal, then I don't know what else we can afford in our country. All I want to say is that I have been approached by the president of the local community. He invited me to meetings, not even the mayor talking to him, and he is followed by more than 150 signatures or people who are injured by this title. This waterfront street, which is closed against the law, as you find, which is why you have filed a criminal complaint, must be opened. You need to get people together in a way that limits traffic from both sides, can also be banned or allowed only for local traffic and traffic is actually physically limited at speeds with lying cops. We have to do this, and you can't run away from this responsibility, because there's gonna be blood in there tomorrow. They've already had a fight. And that is your duty, if it is not your duty, then it is the duty of the Transport Ministry. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Would you like some more, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u145	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u147	First of all, I'd like you to address me in this National Assembly with my office. I'm the Minister of the Interior, not the Minister of the Interior. This has become a practice that completely distorts my duties. Secondly, I did not talk about the decision on the basis of which this was written, but I said that it was a record which is legal. The buildings were also built in 1986. And also for the use of a permit and a building permit, it has been explicitly written that this road will never be transported, these are certain facts that we are likely to clear for a long time and have every opinion on this. But I must say very clearly, please, if I may, you are referring to me with the questions that I am responsible for. I am not responsible for roads in the Republic of Slovenia and am not responsible for closing and opening roads. The police are responsible for regulating traffic on the road if, [[Unfortunately, no]] I can't remove any obstacles. There is no legal option between the police and the Ministry of the Interior. We can only determine if there is an obstacle to traffic on the road, and it is clear that this street has asphalt only to the point where this prison you mentioned is now no longer a road. Further, the land through which traffic has been carried out in such a way or other way in the past and has endangered safety on the highway. Therefore, other solutions need to be found, and I think that solutions must be found in the congregation. Regarding that incident, the police conducted a large-scale investigation into the fights that were to take place on the streets in connection with this establishment. Nobody reported any fights. And if no one reports it, of course the police can't act. These things are very difficult to solve in this way. But I would really ask if I could have the same question as I was then asked. However, I have a few hours to prepare for him, and these things that I am now responding to, I'm very quickly gathered together because I started [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to anticipate what question it should be, and not what was raised, so that I can respond as best I can, precisely and concretely to those questions which any Member wishes. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Foreign Minister will be asked a question by Mr Milan Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you, Vice President. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you have spent these three hours creatively waiting for my question. The only question on this day that I'm apparently the only one who's dedicated to you. I'm not gonna ask about the stones, but I'm gonna ask about the flowers. The question is as follows. On 5 April, the Slovenian tourism organisation, we know its tasks, presented a television video that is scheduled to be broadcast on CNN - International Europe’s television network today, one of the world’s most widely cited media. The first such Slovenian tourist promotion video, according to WTO experts who designed this advertising campaign, is expected to reach around 7,000 million viewers, among them the most German, who have already represented an important audience for Slovenian tourist advertisers. Slovenia has been working since the 1980s on building and certifying a recognizable and well-established image of an equal and friendly country with a quality and diverse tourist offer. Experts in the field of visual communication advertising and tourism promotion are the only ones who still have a problem with their visibility, including the Slovenian flag, which is often replaced by Russian or Slovak in the foreign public. Dear Minister, according to the WTO and the media, the representatives of the WTO and the author of the video on the day of the presentation of the video were accepted and forwarded to them the position of the government, according to the media, which required the 11-year-old tourist sign of the multicolored flower bouquet to be replaced by your proposal, including this in the media, with your proposal of the Slovenian flag. Known Slovenian experts have been critical until this obvious personal decision of yours, as one of them believes that tourism advertising should be replaced with political advertising. I ask you why you decided to make this sudden and radical change just before the initial planned launch of the promotion ad at CNN International Europe TV station?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Member, for your question. So, first of all, I have to say with full responsibility that it's not always a matter of relying on what's in the media, and I'm happy to have the opportunity to explain the matter that you've just discussed. First, let me say that the Slovenian tourism organisation has produced a promotional video, not only in this and not only in several variants, but it has also prepared an ad for the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. The promotion video, which was to be broadcast on the television network for the shortest possible time, also wanted to be shown at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I even talked about not having time, but they insisted, and then they came to us and presented their material. Following the presentation of the various videos, the three that I have mentioned and the advertisements for the Presidency of the European Union, a relaxed debate has developed on the spot, on the visibility of Slovenian symbols, on the promotion of Slovenia in the broadest sense of the word, and I think it was in everyone's interest that our country, both in a tourist sense and in a political sense, is best represented and most recognizable, especially in the foreign public, I agree with you that the visibility is, of course, something urgent and positive. When we had this broader debate, this matter was obviously very interesting for WTO representatives. Each of us, there were more of us, there might have been 10 of us, and he expressed his own views. So the WTO representatives did not come here to show their products to keep quiet, but to exchange their views. I have to say that I have had some views and suggestions, but at the same time I have said, and this is also protocoled, and I like this ad and presentation, you can suggest it as it is. If you ask me what needs to be changed, let me tell you what I like better, what I like less, and so on. In doing so, I must say that the WTO, or the lady who led this group from the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, has said that they themselves in a survey have found that the spot or combination with flowers has so far not achieved the purpose it wanted to achieve, that after many tests they have also found themselves that this figure is not the most effective. Before our WTO friends came to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was an economic college with the Prime Minister on 1 February 2006. In this economic college, a decision was taken and our guests knew well that it was necessary to find a better slogan and a better logo for Slovenia to appear abroad. Current signs are intended to be replaced by signs that represent Slovenia more widely abroad and not only as a tourist destination. This decision has been agreed by the WTO on the basis of surveys and the general debate they have led and has also been presented several times in our public. By the way, let me say that countries and also advertising organisations have been choosing for a long time and also spending a lot of money on finding suitable signs. Let us recall, for example, the Austrian very successful, very efficient, colourful sign for the presidency of the European Union. This sign was not invented by the Austrians themselves, but was invented or proposed by a Dutch designer, and preparations for it took years. I was asked for an opinion, I gave my opinion, but at the same time I did not at least want to intervene in any authoritarian way in the work of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. I did what they asked me to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u153	Mr. Minister, with this answer, you have actually confirmed what should not have happened. You yourself said that countries invest a lot of time and a lot of resources and spend on proper presentation and sign. In that case, I'd like to agree with you here if this were done in our case. It was not done, it was urgent, you obviously want to hear or not to hear about the authority that you and the ministry are enjoying in an organization that depends on these people or on these institutions, and so it has happened that this lie in the world is clearly becoming a command. The command is amazing because you actually want or don't want us to see that this flower, which many disagree with, is a valid logo of this tourist organization or presentation of Slovenia. And tourism promoters know that such processes, substitutions take some time, you've achieved this by talking in one week, so they change something that's rooted or maybe even some people haven't. What I'm trying to tell you is that your expert judgement here should not be more difficult because you really have no professional references in this area. I have looked at Cobiss and your bibliography is rich, but it is in one area, on a scientific paper and on 10 professional articles, mostly in the magazine New magazine and Ali, so your magazines, but nothing about your work in the field of promotion or visual communication. And here to agree that you made a suggestion, but they accepted it, they didn't hold back. That's why we stopped by. That's why we're asking you this. And it is right for the Slovenian public to explain what were the arguments that this sign had changed. Apparently, they weren't professional.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u154	Can I help you, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u155	So, I'm asking you to talk about things that aren't so bad that we keep our blood calm and talk friendly about the things that we're here for. As for my bibliography, my esteemed colleague, I have to correct you, I have already been a doctor in sociology of culture in 1976, if you've missed it, and I've been dealing with culture and art for half my life, and when you're interested in it, you'll be able to take a look at my bibliography. But as a matter of fact, I didn't want to influence the decision of those who were competent to decide these things. I've expressed my opinion. If you think that the Foreign Minister of a country has no idea what is effective for promoting a country abroad, then I fear that you have the mistaken idea of the work of an foreign minister or of foreign ministers in general or of how the modern world works. I must disappoint you. In fact, I think I know something about what works abroad, after all, I was one of those who managed to represent ours and yours and our common country abroad and to promote it when it wasn't the easiest. And if you're not bad enough, you'll have to admit that I've been quite successful at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u156	The Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Economy will be asked a question by Mrs Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The days before the holidays at the end of last year are marked by the death of three girls who promised to have a party at the Lip discotheque. The harsh circumstances of this death have shaken the Slovenian public. Distress has not yet waned when the public began to ask themselves a number of questions that could be gravely divided into two groups: how something like this could have happened and who is responsible for the tragedy in the same breath. And second, what must be done to avoid anything like this? It's been almost four months since then, but there's still no real answers. The transfer of responsibilities from one institution to another, the conduct of some and their statements, and in particular the unacceptable publication of the autopsy records, the pain of unhappy parents are only getting worse. The most obvious and most often criticized was the failure of inspection services, even though regulations have been violated in several areas. Neither the market nor the environmental inspectorate shall feel competent to act in cases where the activity is carried out in illegally constructed buildings or facilities without a valid authorisation. What did the inspection board do, under the inspection law, which is empowered to coordinate each other between the different inspection bodies? Since economic activity is possible under the Company Act, even if the conditions for its operation are not met, to register quickly and easily, and efforts are made to make it even simpler, the role of inspection is even more important. So allow me, both ministers, to ask you the part of the question that has also been announced: What has been the analysis of the causes of the tragedy and the responsibilities of the inspection and other administrative authorities, since there is reason to believe that not all the procedures and regulations necessary to obtain the necessary authorisations for the activity of Lipa have been carried out, according to publicly available and known information? What measures are both planned by both ministries in order to prevent new tragedies and to ensure that local visitors are provided with adequate security? I also expect that the findings of the analysis on which I ask in the first part of the question can also be provided in writing, given that you have announced some of the planned analyses. Thank you both for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dear Member, it is true that we have announced that we will examine the matter thoroughly. The Ministry of the Economy is responsible for the responsibility and functioning of or the respect for the powers or omission of acts, in particular the market inspection. I believe that my other colleagues, who have dealt with this problem in their own right, have solved this within their own services and powers. The Ministry of Economy, together with the Ministry of Public Administration and external experts, analysed this event and this analysis results mainly in two. This matter was done a few days after the event, so we acted very quickly. The first thing that follows from this finding is that the inspection services - I am talking about a market inspection - have abandoned certain acts that they were competent for, and that they have had all the powers to do so, and that there is no problem in the legislation or in the irregularity of these powers in the regulations, but there has been a suspension of the acts that the expert group has also found to be. As a result, Chief Market Inspector Roman Kladušek also resigned because of his objective responsibility, and as a result, both disciplinary proceedings against the Inspectorate in charge of this inspection and against the Head of the Unit, who is directly responsible and in charge. This unit leader is also likely to have resigned because of his objective responsibilities. The disciplinary procedure is approaching the stage - I regret to say, however, that against the market inspector, the disciplinary procedure could not be carried out because it has been hospitalised since that event for more than two months. But I have to tell you what we've done next. We have repeatedly and always warned the inspection that it must exercise its powers and control effectively and responsibly. As a result, the Prime Minister has also organised a working meeting with all the Chief Inspectors, and one of the key points is the more effective and responsible exercise of supervision in accordance with the laws and also better cooperation between individual inspection services, which is why this Council is actually called upon to do more effective work. I would like to point out that we have not identified a lack of legislation or a lack of powers in this regard and that it was a key part of the responsibility of inspectors because they did not use their powers and that they also followed those sanctions in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you. And Mr. Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. From my point of view, I would like to complement the answer to the question of the Magi. You're wasting it. First of all, the question of how to prevent new tragedies in the future and ensure that the visitors of the venues and the event are provided with adequate security. From the point of view of the headquarters I manage, one of the ways through the operation of inspection services is through the construction inspection every year to draw up a work plan, which also sets priorities at work. It is agreed that one of the priorities in 2006 will also be to control the use of facilities, especially those in public use, and facilities that may otherwise endanger the safety of people and the environment. However, there are other measures, of course, that such a tragedy would no longer occur, but they go beyond the scope of the department, i.e. the environment and space. And perhaps briefly on your first part of the question, the responsibility of inspection services, this is a construction inspection. The construction inspector issued a decision banning the use of the facility for the restaurant in 2003. On the basis of the law, he issued a decision authorising the enforcement of the inspection decision. He issued two decisions after one million fines as a constraint on the use of the facility, but in 2004 the Ministry of Environment and Space, as an authority in the process, decided to remove such a decision as a decision, since it found that the investor had permits and only materials contrary to that authorisation. Part two. The inspector also determined that Elektro Podjednje Gorenjska should order the facility to be shut down from the public electricity network and that Kranj Komunali should be shut off from the public drainage network. The company did not do its part of the excavation because of the protection of the health of the house. On the basis of a detailed review of the construction inspector's procedure, we have not found that the inspector would have acted contrary to the applicable law which he is bound by in his decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you. I thank both ministers for their answer. However, I would like to add some things. In 2003, the National Assembly, following a report by the Ombudsman, adopted recommendations that inspection services should work in a coordinated manner when it comes to a complex issue. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Minister of Economy has indeed drawn up a special interdepartmental committee in which the three were responsible for reviewing the work of the inspection service, concerning this economic part, that there was another person in charge of public administration. But when we talk about responsibility, part of the responsibility also concerns the issue of lack of protection, questions are raised as to the responsibility of the local community and justice. The problem is very comprehensive, and when you announced, Mr. Minister, the Inter-Resort Commission, I expected that the analysis would really cover this problem in its entirety. A few warnings are that if we go to look closely at what circumstances they are operating, some localities operate, it is possible to expect that in the event of a fire or other things that would be associated with an outbreak of fear or anything else, things could develop as we do not want, and a new tragedy could happen. Now let's leave experience from somewhere else, from the world, when the snow brings down the roof. Accident never rests, they say. Or did the analysis also go this way so that all the different elements could be assembled and prepared to see what could be done, including some kind of crisis headquarters for such things.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Regrettably, the Ministry of Economy, or fortunately, is not competent to appoint an interdepartmental group, in which others are, to examine problems from other areas. However, it is true that I can say that I believe that in the judicial system, too, the matter has been denied, because I must say that a number of decisions have been made on the offence of operating time by the inspection bodies. Of course, the entrepreneur complained about it all the time, and then the matter ran into the scene and things just stood there for too long. And I'm surprised if someone sends out a few ten applications and at the same time complaints that things don't move, and it's not, unfortunately, more than a year. And I personally think that, and I hope to defend that not everything has been done in this area. I believe that my colleagues in their fields, both the Minister of Public Administration, the Minister of the Interior, could probably explain what they have done in this area, and if they have been asked the question, I also believe that they would. I would like to point out that, for the first time, unfortunately, even in the wake of a very tragic accident, only some people have realized that they are objectively responsible also for those who have held these responsible positions for long and long years. Despite constant recommendations, both the National Assembly and the Ombudsman, I do not know who else to work effectively and responsibly, but this has happened. I can assure you that I will do everything, even my own time as an inspector, to ensure, as far as market inspection is concerned, that essential irregularities will be checked in particular, that time will not be wasted on minorities, that important violations causing and jeopardising human safety and health will also be detected at the right time to devote matters to serious infringements - to the management of activities without permission or in inappropriate facilities. I have a market inspection report on every specific action they carry out over the period, and this is done quite a bit, but of course it must not be done enough to hinder economic activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you. The Minister of Environment and Space will ask the question of the Magi. Tomaž Strabe. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, ministers, fellow Members, fellow Members. I would not repeat the question, which was given in writing, but the previous question about Lipa could also be a good point for the problem of the blood water supply system, which somehow lost a formal, more than ten-year-old controller two years ago. This operator was somehow driven out of the system and a new operator was brought in without any procedures or formalities. Until nothing happens and until we have to look for those responsible, the matter is fine, but it will not be okay if anything happens, and it will be very, very wrong, for the 6 congregations are supplied mostly from this system. Finally, our congregation, the water now flows through a system operated by two operators and our local manager. Who is responsible for this, if anything happens to the quality of drinking water, is now completely disorderly. At the same time, your predecessor, Mr Minister, in 1999, together with the three municipalities, initiated a study of the integration of even this inter-ethnic system, which is therefore of national importance to the stone water supply system. It has been the wish of some who know that system integration brings great advantages at critical times and, in general, if such a larger system is managed by one operator, there are, of course, great advantages here. Unfortunately, when this study was completed in 2001 and later, I was very strongly engaged here, we were not able to make the results of this study, which we confirmed, but not formalize with some regulation or in the municipal councils to make it work, although in the practice of the system they are now connected, but things are not well formalized or arranged in a way that is not a formality, but it is a matter of order. Mr. Minister, tomorrow will be five months from the first question when you promised to make sure that things moved forward here within two months. I am really asking you to take care of this, otherwise it will be necessary to act in another way. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u168	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u169	Dear Member, Mag. It's bad luck. Indeed, last November you asked me a very similar question, because you are repeating it today, this is clear evidence that there are issues related to both ownership and management issues related to the bloodstream for a complex topic. The water supply, which connects six congregations and has high - quality drinking water, is more than mere congregational significance because of this fact. It has a long-term meaning, and because of that, as you say, somehow, we'll say, state importance. However, I must tell you that I will repeat my first reply last November: drinking water supply is a compulsory local public service, we cannot go beyond this framework. The law also lays down standards for the performance of the public service. The second question is the price; you did not talk about this topic. In my first answer, I have already suggested to you that an agreement between municipalities, both ownership and management relations is a key issue. However, if no agreement is reached, our ministry will act as a mediator and this mediation, which is formally also given by some procedures, will actively implement. At that time, there was a new matter. Mr Mayor, Mr Member, I am sure that you know the rules on the supply of drinking water that came into force two days ago or yesterday, 19. In a specific chapter, the issue of water supply management is also very important. This Regulation also has a provision which states that by the time the congregations have to adapt their rules to the requirements of this Regulation. The deadline is relatively distant, so it's still a while, this is the last December of 2008. Therefore, on the basis of this regulation, we will also call on all Slovene municipalities or a number of municipalities, in particular the municipalities that connect you with the blood water supply system, to regulate the relationship between ownership and management of this system in order to determine the actual state of ownership and regulate it in accordance with the regulations or to adopt appropriate municipal decisions on the implementation of the compulsory public water supply service and then enforce such a decree. I stress, however, that it is very important that you try the municipalities alone in accordance with the competences you have, as well as the obligations to manage the ownership problem yourself and to identify the controller or the controllers; it would be more rational to be one. In the event that this agreement is not reached, I would like to reiterate here, honourable Member, that we will play a so-called mediation role at the Ministry. We also have some experience. Some of the problems like yours are in Slovenia and I can say that we are already a major step further than you. However, I suggest that we all bet on an agreement for now, on communication between us, and that we are not looking for some other possible solutions that are present in some other laws to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u170	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Well, I hope it goes from the minister's mouth to God's ears and the matter will work. In fact, for the past two years, nothing happens and local autonomy and responsibility do not work here. On the contrary, there have been unilateral moves by some, which have led to this. I think that the ministry or the state has mechanisms to sanction and enforce the rule of law. Mr. Minister, I agree with you that it is necessary to try to set things straight in a soft way. However, if this fails, responsible action will have to be taken and perhaps I will think about it, somehow persecute and seek out the one who has committed some illegality here. On Saturday we are going to look again at the situation on the blood system, the consequences of which I am monitoring personally, this year will be the sixth year, and I must tell you that the attacks on the bloodsucker in recent years have caused enormous ecological damage because nature is simply no longer working in terms of containment and sonar activity, so that there is a great erosion in the system and also all of this affects the supply of drinking water itself. I hope that the soft way will succeed, and in this way we will move this wagon and regulate the situation at least as it was years ago. In the 1950s, the system was built, it wasn't formalized with some contracts, but things were actually working very well informally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u172	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. On Saturday, April 22nd, it is also the day of the earth that I would like to wish for this joint meeting of all those who connect you with this water supply, that this message would also be the one that might balance you as much as possible into a common solution. You mentioned the autonomy of local self-government or jurisdiction in this area. It's always about responsibility. The state, the government here has some mechanisms that are supervisory in nature, but there are others. When we were again preparing to answer your question, together we found that it would be necessary for the first half of next year to draft amendments to the Law on Economic Public Services in our work plan, and perhaps to write some solutions that could be valid in this law, if there was no agreement in these communications between the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Geza Juban will ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Chairman. My parliamentary question will be that, compared to my colleague, I am now a little confused about what can be happening on the one hand, and we have problems that I will highlight. Prekmurje has one part of Slovenia on average the least rainfall, which is why droughts are common. Agriculture is a common economic activity, farms are very small and are looking for an additional source of income, and one of them is vegetable production. With regard to frequent droughts, farmers made simple wells on plots where they produce them, in the construction area the plots are very small - even 500 to 1000 square meters, and these wells on these parcels of the same owner are several wells a few meters away. This is where the problem comes from. In 1994, a law was passed that required a description of all water resources, wells. On the basis of this census, this case was glass, the fee of around 4,000 tolars was not problematic. All those who have done so have been informed that they must obtain economic consent for the use of this water. The Minister prescribed the application, the conditions under which they obtain it. It's not an integral part of the law. But the problem arose when it was said that it was necessary to submit a hydrogeological report to this water management agreement, which was about two years later. This report, however, contains so many elements, I think, very senseless, and its price is due to this nonsense of 90 to 100,000 tolars, but for each well, although one owner has several wells a few meters away. And that's why my case is banal compared to what my colleague Steba put up. To help justify this banality by listing some demands, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] a, time is running out, in short, Mr Minister, what you will do to make this nonsense either change or end, or whether the users of this water wait for further solutions, measures you will take. [[...]] Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u176	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The essence of your question is why it is necessary to obtain a hydrogeological report in the water permit process, which costs a lot. That was the essence of your question. Allow me to begin by trying to explain in answer to this question that it is very important that the collection of water in normal conditions should not exceed the renewable amount of groundwater. This is a principled position in terms of the sustainable use of drinking water or water and is therefore an instrument of water rights, introduced by the Water Act, essentially a measure through which the State also has an insight into water resources and that it is properly decided on procedures and allows for a balance between drinking water stocks and permitted withdrawals. Your conclusion is correct, Prekmurje has in our country, this is a meteorological finding, at least precipitation, there is the impact of water loss over the surface and evaporation proportionally maximum. In recent years, in the part of Prekmurje, groundwater has fallen to the lowest level in the 50s. Groundwater stocks have decreased below the level of annual renewable stocks already in the area of so-called statistical stocks. In this case, water pumping is already a mining of groundwater, as stocks are not sufficiently recovered from these findings, and droughts are an additional warning. As you have found, procedures for issuing a water permit for direct use of water for irrigation are provided by the Slovenian Environmental Agency. For two years they have had time since the entry into force of the law to apply for water rights by the beneficiaries. Based on expert analyses, especially on the assessment of the decline in groundwater in the Prekmurje area, colleagues at the Slovenian Environmental Agency proposed to add a hydrogeological report to such an application. This also gives an indication of the condition of groundwater, for we speak of irrigation. That's an important question. Seizure of agricultural areas - it is an irreparable removal of groundwater. However, the scope of the geological report depends on the quantity of water taken from the aquifer. In any case, when it comes to the collection of groundwater in a quantity greater than 5 litres per second, it is necessary to produce a hydrogeological report, and this really requires some more professional data. Mr Member, you are right to mention the paradox that two landowners can happen to be a few feet away, but each person proposes for himself in this process and must also prepare a hydrogeological report. This is why we propose that farmers connect to order the production of a joint hydrogeological report, which will significantly reduce the cost of preparing this. We also agree on the involvement of the Environment Agency, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in this process, in order to identify, through agricultural advisers, the possibilities for cooperation and integration of farmers, and to establish a process for their participation in water licensing processes. And there would be mutual benefits. Finally, I would like to say that I am convinced that we have the same view that it would be good if as much irrigation water could be absorbed from surface waters. A few important sources, one of the very important sources of Pomurje also has, this is the river Mura. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The applications were filed at the beginning of last year, and the request for supplementation came two months ago, which means that people have already lost a year. To be able to organize and unite suddenly, it is impossible. Then perhaps the solution, Mr Minister, is to say, in Prekmurje it is not possible to use such water in this and this area. That would be the shortest way. If they do not do so, I hope that this will not happen, because what is happening there in the congregation of Mengeš and up against that capture, then we should put someone there. If they do not do so, the competent authority may remove the facility or follow the fines of 30 - 150 thousand tolars for natural persons and for legal ten times more. People are ahead of the fact what to do now. And it is not true that the two neighbours could unite - each well must have this document under these minimum requirements of the hydrogeological report. And there are countless data, such as: data on water levels during pumping, before pumping, after pumping, in the dry period, effects due to pumping, maximum withdrawal, average removal, daily removal, quality, bacteriological, chemical, lithography, geology, from which geological period is the basis on which the well, temperature measurement, flow level - all of this must contain this report, which costs 100,000 tolars, is the problem. And the conditions that are written here make no sense. Whether water is generally banned in an area in Beltinci, or whether these regulations are made to bearable levels, it will be a document that will serve someone, not a bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u180	Time's up. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dear Member, we are not considering a general ban, first of all. Even in terms of reducing or eliminating bureaucratic barriers and unnecessary costs, I reiterate here our proposal and, if it turns out that a regulation or regulation may need to be amended, I am told that it is not necessary. So I invite, I suggest we find procedures so that farmers can connect here. And, of course, one hydrogeological report could cover a large number of farmers. And of course, this cost will be substantially reduced in financial terms, that's the first. However, you asked an important question why, after two years of procedure, there was a proposal to propose a hydrogeological report. It is precisely to ensure the objectives of the Water Act, and in particular to identify, as I said earlier, that groundwater in Prekmurje has fallen to a lower level in the last 50 years, as there has been a professional decision to propose the production of a hydrogeological report in this process as a mandatory component. And it contains a clear state, a clear indicator of what is the state of groundwater levels in the specific area under consideration before the water is taken away, according to the amount that the customer wants to take away. This is a question, honourable Members and Members. This is a sustainable approach to water use. But as Minister, I will see again whether the procedure itself can be pre-biocratic and that it may require such information as is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u182	The Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy will be asked a question by Mr Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Following the adoption of the amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, on 15 July 2005, which deleted Article 16a, which laid down the additional conditions to be met by the municipalities, on 25 October 2005, a group of Members with the first signed Cvetka Zalokar Orazem submitted to the National Assembly a new law on local self-government with the aim of easing the conditions for obtaining the status of the municipal municipality or simplifying the procedures for obtaining status, since the amendment has no significant implications such as establishing a new municipality or changing the border of the municipality. The government's view on this novel is that it is the right of the legislator to lay down the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or city municipality, and that is also the position of the Constitutional Court. It further points out that changing the conditions for the status of the municipal municipality is necessarily linked to the establishment of the provinces and the creation of general administrative circuits. When the problem of the provinces, which is functionally linked to the problem of municipal municipalities and the provinces are established, it will be possible to assess the location of the local self-government of the municipality. And for these reasons, the amendment was not supported by the government. When considering the proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, the Committee of the National Assembly for Local Self-Government and Regional Development adopted, at its 7th meeting, on 7 December 2005, a decision not to consider proposals for the establishment of municipal municipalities or for changes in the status of municipalities which were submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that they do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipal municipality. However, the committee on the procedures for those proposals will continue following the adoption of the specific law. In the Government's work programme, the list of regulations for the period from 1.1.2006 to 31.12.2006 on 23 January 2006 in your field was not provided for by this special law. A compromise proposal for the procedure of amendment 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution was adopted on the Constitutional Commission, on the basis of which a second level of local self-government could be established. In view of the fact that the Committee's decision has been adopted and that there will also be a change to the Constitution for the field of local self-government, I am interested in Minister Dr. Žagar: When will you prepare and submit a proposal for a law setting up a procedure for the establishment of a municipal municipality, as provided for in Article 16, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Self-Government? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u184	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. In your question, you yourself have mentioned that this national assembly has already addressed this issue in this mandate and this proposal, which was proposed at the time, has also been rejected. Of course, I agree that it is necessary to verify, and we have also written in our opinion, the status of the municipalities. If I understand everything, of course only legislation, the status of the municipal municipalities was also linked to the transfer of powers that could be assumed by the municipal municipalities, since we have two types of municipalities in this sense. And if we look at past events, we can see that these transfers were virtually nonexistent, and if we look at the powers and tasks performed by the municipalities, there is virtually no difference between the tasks and powers exercised by the municipalities and other municipalities. However, I certainly agree that this status should, of course, be re-examined. This status is, of course, linked to two meanings at this time. One is the one associated with the establishment of the provinces, namely the function of the central or the centre of the provinces. You yourself have already said that luckily, in this mandate, this political will has come so that we can actually come, at least after our assessment, to the establishment of the provinces and thus also to the decentralisation of the country, and in this regard, of course, it will be necessary to review once again the function of both municipalities and municipalities. Finally, it is also important in terms of the autonomy of municipalities or the autonomy of local self-government, to examine these things thoroughly at this first level and to pay attention to the very process of establishing the provinces, because we do not want any additional centralisms to happen. In a way, these two levels of local self-government must also be interdependent and each have its own position. In the second part, this status of urban municipalities is, of course, linked to the financing of municipalities themselves, and the existing funding system itself brings this additional number to the municipalities, I think, these 4%. At the moment, we are also preparing a new law on the financing of municipalities, which, of course, must increase the financial autonomy of the municipalities, because it is also closely linked to the autonomy of the municipalities alone, and in the second part, of course, it will also be necessary to examine the actual competences or to review the actual thorough tasks, to analyse the tasks performed by the municipalities, and in this regard, of course, to make a consistent system of funding for the municipalities, which will, of course, be a little more equitable than the present one; thus, the state or the increased autonomy of the municipalities and that the municipalities may also be in some way balanced with the newly established provinces. In this sense, of course, it is also necessary to review the way in which it is established - possibly if necessary - of the new municipalities or of this status. In particular, I would stress the need to distinguish the status of the city’s congregation as a municipality and the status of the city as a settlement. As far as the status of the city as a settlement is concerned, however, the government has granted this status to the 51st cities in the past, which were already in line with the law, a further 16th place, so that, as far as cities are concerned, we now have more and more of these cities. Once again, as regards the status of the municipalities, these matters are dealt with in parallel as part of the preparation of legislation in the field of local self-government, i.e. the whole package of legislation in the area of the provinces and the law on the financing of municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u186	Please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Of course, you didn't answer my question exactly, Mr. Minister, because I asked you: When will you prepare a proposal for a law setting up a procedure for the establishment of a city municipality, as provided for in Article 16, paragraph 4, of the Law on Local Self-Government? Because we could prepare this in this package, which you discussed earlier, even when we adopted a new law on the financing of municipalities. It's about things that are substantively connected, and it would be right to do it now in this package. Indeed, the political will expressed on the Constitutional Commission also gives, I would say, some optimism about the establishment of the provinces. In fact, this law could already be drawn up in this package of local self-governments or reforms of local self-government. After all, this is of interest to 10 congregations, for from July to November last year 10 congregations submitted a proposal to establish or grant the status of the city congregation. Let me remind you that these were Brežice, Radovljica, Ravni na Koroškem, Domžale, Idrija, Jesenice, Kamnik, Krško, Piran and Škofja Loka. Of course, I also distinguish what the city’s congregation is and what the status of a city is. In fact, I ask you: When will you prepare a law for the establishment of municipal municipalities, as stipulated by the law on local self-government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u188	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you for saying that I replied earlier that we are not preparing an entire package of legislation in this area. Within this package of legislation, of course, it is necessary, and with this I absolutely agree, and we have also promised to thoroughly review the status of the municipalities, to see the need to establish the municipalities. I speak, of course, in connection with funding and in connection with the establishment of landscapes, in connection with the functions of these municipalities, which could possibly be needed in the future. At this point, we did not foresee a specific law package in this package, but, if necessary, we will also address this issue with the necessary law as part of the amendment of the legislation. In any case, we will also absolutely address the status of the municipalities in this package.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u191	Mr. President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister, this week obviously wasn't yours, something has happened all the time, so after all these days I've actually been in doubt about what to ask you, whether how critical the number of asbestos patients are to be taken into account, alone, without my intermediaries, or who will be involved in regulating taxpayers. Although this is a more zootechnical question to be answered by other experts, I have decided to take "black Wednesday" as a starting point. In fact, yesterday students gathered at a warning meeting, i.e. the "yet-educated" taxpayers, and told them what they didn't like. Given that, in the event that the Prime Minister does not respond to their demands, general demonstrations are announced. Mr Minister, I ask you: How do you intend to continue your dialogue with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, in particular with regard to the agreement on student diet, student work and, above all, the possibilities of employment after completion of the study, including secondary school.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u192	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. In view of the fact that you first touched the asbestos law, I must tell you that this law is good, that it is a European law and that it now enters into force, with which compensation can be paid from 250,000 to 10 million tolars, free procedure, that is, those who have become ill, are then also certain occupational diseases. In short, the commission and everything that's necessary. At the same time, if you are not already aware, the government has foreseen the necessary resources to also remove all transport products in Slovenia, those that are installed, with the help of European funds. This is foreseen for the financial perspective. On this occasion, I can cheer you up with these matters, and I think asbestos patients will be very pleased and satisfied. Now let us continue to ask questions about students and students. Most of them were students yesterday, like I could see. What we did at the beginning of my term of office - the students had no special requirements. Do you know what their demands were? In order to maintain the status quo both in the student work and in all matters, but in the coalition of the Treaty and the Reform Programme we have stressed the key objectives, and these are: the development of new scholarship schemes that will offer significantly more scholarships. I have repeatedly explained how students are excited about these proposals. Increasing student beds in a way that increases concessions - why not? Shortening the study by the Bologna process - including through scholarship integration, to acquire practical skills at the time of study, practical knowledge and thus shorten studies. Better diet. Do you know what's going on now? That one of the Slovenian faculty has its own diet within the faculty, but there is such a system that students cannot use vouchers in this college. It's the legacy of the old system. We're just going to change this so that everyone will be at least equivalent to different Chinese restaurants or Chinese restaurants. Students are involved in the negotiation process. See what the Ministry of Labour has done: individuals from ministries, social partners and representatives of the student organisation are included in the working group to subsidise student diet and under the law on scholarship. Not only will we talk to them, we have included them in the working group, which I think will be very good. Then we took some of the funds that students have, and we saw that they buy from this money from various companies, a little bit of it, and we're going to spend all that money on student scholarships, which is what they're also happy with. And the students supported changes to the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment because they agree, and we have good relations with them. With regard to post-secondary employment, we now have an employment measure with this amendment to exempt contributions, if they include young people, from employment by the age of 26. This is what you got in the National Assembly, the law. I suggest you start adopting this law as soon as possible, because it is consistent with the social partners, so as not to prolong these good solutions in the future. The students also agree with these changes. I told you about the public scholarship fund. APZ, active employment policy, additional funds from European funds to help young people in employment, such as project learning for young adults, in particular smallpox. The Employment Service must draw up a employment plan for young people under the age of 26 within 15 days of registration for registered unemployment. However, the framework for economic and social reforms to increase prosperity foresees that each unemployed person will be included within 3 to 6 months in one of the active forms of aid treatment. For young people, however, this measure is certainly good, as we have foreseen in this amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Act. If a future mother goes on maternity leave and the employer takes the unemployed person, especially the young ones, then he will be exempt from all insurance contributions or all contributions. I think that this is just a few useful and good proposals that are worth using. But if you're going to make an extra suggestion, I think it's possible to take them into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u195	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answers. Well, you wouldn't have to answer those introductory notes because they weren't written. However, I am interested in and would like to complement the answer, precisely in relation to post-graduate employment. We know that some industries, industries - good that Mr Bručan is here, who probably knows this - are in some way not paying people or deciding on the so-called unpaid internship, especially those coming from medical schools. How will you handle such matters? However, this is about distinguishing people by profession, i.e. discrimination of some kind, despite the fact that there is still a lot of talk about how deficient these professions are. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you so much for asking me that question. This too will be done in the light of these changes. I think it will be time for this issue that you have pointed out, and I agree with you, to solve for some other professions, not just doctors, which means, of course, that our joint efforts will bear fruit. And I certainly would not defend your initiatives, if you would also provide them to either the government or yourself, I think this is appropriate. This may be an opportunity for the Labour Relations Act, also in active employment policy measures, where we are also considering additional instruments. As you know, the promotion of traineeship in the early 1990s, when we introduced it, I proposed this measure as a employee of the Republic Employment Office in the context of the then government and was also adopted. And I don't think it would be bad if we could bring him back in. However, he had some negative effects, namely that employers then calculated to hire only those where the traineeship was paid. This is a negative picture of this measure and you can also read it in studies in other countries. By taking measures, of course, we are considering a few other measures for the benefit of young people, because, as far as this is concerned, they are in a worse situation as well as older ones. For the elderly, we have introduced a similar relief measure for young people under 26 years of age and for future mothers, or unemployed women, who enter the place where Mom was previously employed. In fact, this is one of the forms of "job rotation" which is highlighted in this flexibility of employment and the exchange of opportunities for entry into employment, including those at the employment office, to replace some who leave the labour market for the sake of maternity, education, foreign or similar. This is also part of this lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u197	Mr Aloyz Sok, Minister for Environment and Space, will ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! We have already spoken here today, or the ministers have answered questions about the price of electricity and the use of irrigation water, but I would like to ask the Minister of Environment and Space about the construction of small hydro power plants myself. Besides, I don't know if the Ministry of Environment and Space is the only one responsible for this. I think it's a rather complicated question, but I have chosen this ministry, which is that I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, the following: I would like to make a shorter introduction. See, in the Republic of Slovenia electricity consumption increases every year, there between 3% and 6%. One of the chapters, the areas to be promoted, is the use of clean energy, the use of renewable energy sources, and it is clear that small hydroelectric areas where this segment could make a significant contribution to this part of the economy than is currently the case. At present, the situation is such that these small hydropower plants, after what I could also read in the media, contribute to the annual production of electricity, which, for example, is produced at the Krško nuclear power plant. This is the case if it is to believe what it says that the annual Ministry of Environment and Space appoints more than one to two such projects, while the requirements are significantly higher. I don't know how much, I wrote in this question that something over 30 bets, but there's probably a lot more to these bets. I think you'll be able to give the exact information. On the other hand, for example, a concession was granted to Drava power plants to initiate procedures concerning the exploitation of hydropower on the Mura River, where objections are identified, mainly by naturalists. So, I ask you, Mr. Minister, why can't this award of concessions run faster? When is this gonna happen? What are the obstacles? Why are we not following the practices of neighbouring Austria and Italy? And if bureaucratic obstacles are what prevents and hinders these procedures, why not remove them more quickly? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u199	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. Mr Sok, it is already clear from your introductory part that the Minister covering the field of energy is partly responsible for this area, Mag. Visjak, all that is related to renewable energy sources or part of this area, and especially rational energy use, is left in our house, that is, the Ministry of Environment and Space. First of all, I would like to give you a brief answer to your question regarding the government's decision on the right to the potential energy use of Mura. The water regime of the Mura border section and the wider section from Sweet Top to Verjej is due to the interrupted flow of fins resulting from the operation of the hydroelectric power plant on the Austrian side subject to changes, especially in the marked deepening of the bottom of the stream. Studies have shown that the floor of Mura at the border section with the Republic of Austria has deepened to 1.30 metres in recent years. This number is very worrisome. At the same time, once again, as was the case with my colleague Juban, there is a sharp decline in groundwater levels along the mentioned section of Mura. At the Mura border section in Cersak, however, they have the right to use the Mura Drava power plant, Maribor. Water rights in this location have existed for almost 80 years. And as part of the planning of the restoration of dam and machinery at the small hydropower plant, Drava power plants, Maribor also launched an initiative to explore the possibility of energy use of part of the water body Mura at the section from Sweet Top to Verje. On our proposal, the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has accepted this initiative and has decided to examine whether there is a possibility to rehabilitate and establish a good ecological water condition in this area, as well as the possible energy use of Mura in this section. The possible measures will then be subordinated to the achievement of the best effects, I stress, also the improvement of the Koroan state of the Mura waters and will not affect the Mura water regime in both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. But you also sent me a question concerning the number of concessions granted for the use of small hydropower plants. According to the Water Act, they have been distributed and regulated since 2003, when we passed the Water Act. With the concession ratio, we have managed 456 existing small hydropower plants that have already operated before the change of the water law. However, for 55 existing small hydroelectric power plants, space access permits are legalised. Since the adoption of the Water Act, we have received 151 new initiatives since then. In 2002 and 2003, there were 85, in 2004 11 interesting, last year 55. Some trends in the price of fossil fuels may have further encouraged people to be more active in investing these initiatives. Since the adoption of the Water Act, we have resolved 65 applications: in 2003 55, 2004 3 and last year 3. A little. This year we are processing 86 initiatives, 30 from 2003, 8 from 2004 and 48 from 2005. Now this answer, the average time taken to solve each initiative is about a year and a half. As a minister, I think this time is too long. In order to resolve the individual initiative, it is necessary to obtain an opinion, inter alia, on the intervention in the water regime prepared by the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia, which always receives the opinion of the Institute for Fisheries and the appropriateness of the opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Nature on the effects of nature. Another concrete procedure for the exploitation of concession concessions, for the exploitation of water in one of the smaller hydropower plants somewhere in the Upper Savinsko Valley. The initiative was launched last April, it was completed by the end of last year, and since March all the opinions, positive opinions, and we are just checking the ownership of all the facilities on this river, and since the initiator has demanded even more water collection than was envisaged in the analysis of the water regime, it will only be necessary to assess when and how this increased water collection will be determined through an ecologically acceptable flow. I will do everything to substantially increase the number of decisions issued this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u201	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u202	I have no further question, I just want to give you an initiative, Mr Minister, to actually speed this up and set up all your reputation, and to settle this matter more quickly, even if you give someone a negative decision, so that they know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u203	Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As a matter of fact, that's what I'm going to do. When I said how many deposits have been resolved, that doesn't mean they're all positive, but that the process is closed. For we need to be aware that our citizens and citizens sometimes propose and take the initiative to concession the use of small hydroelectric power plants also on watercourses where there are really no legal conditions for allowing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u205	Mr Ljubo Germić will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question is, and Mr Minister, I will begin with your assessment of what has been bothering you the most in the public sector's wage system so far. First of all, considerable impossibility. For the wages were arranged by a multitude of acts, collective agreements, laws, sub-laws and wages made up of a multitude of supplements, which, of course, backed up by imprudentness. Another time. An unanimity or partial wage policy that has repeatedly appeared the effect of dominion, which means that one payroll group is striving for its rights, that some departmental minister promises now to those, now those higher wages, and then it was always in some way in stampede when some wage imbalances arose in this chaos. Mr Minister, and earlier as Secretary of State, you have always advocated a uniform, transparent and fair pay system in the public sector, so you have legally intervened in regulating the salaries of officials and directors. You claim that the government does not intend to renounce the single system of wages and will therefore not agree to the idea of reviving the sector's contracts of unilateral regulation of wages because, for example, doctors would follow the same logic by teachers, players and others. In the light of current events, of course, I ask you: Why are you now moving away from this and not providing a single system where partial interest in wage policy should prevail after wage management and where conditions for an equal partnership allowing for open dialogue between equal partners? In the light of current revenues, I would like to point out that we have recently completed the law on the public sector wage system and on the decision to pay officials. Instead of eliminating old ones, the government is creating, in my opinion, a new wage ratio. The law was declared without cooperation with the competent trade unions. Despite a signed agreement between the government and the unions that changes and additions to the pay system will not be implemented without or before a new agreement, the government ignores such an agreement and proposes substantial changes to the law. Instead of establishing a single pay system, in some important groups - judges, prosecutors, lawyers - we introduce new wage-setting rules and, instead of gradually introducing a single system, we return to the beginning of each group's fight to create specific rights for it. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we will also consider amendments to the Law on Medical Services, which regulates the content of increased work and duty as a specific form of work providing 24-hour health care. The legal arrangements for these, in my opinion, are not in line with the law on the public sector wage system, noting the fifth indent of Article 32 and at the same time not following the 2004 agreement between the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber on the employers' side and the trade unions of doctors and dentists of FIDES on the workers' side. Mr. Minister, I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u207	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking. In fact, the government insists on a uniform, transparent and fair pay system in the public sector and also the proposed amendments to the Medical Service Act do not derogate in any way. This new pay system has been introduced into real life by a regulation on the salaries of directors, which entered into force on 1 March, and directors in the public sector have already received their first payment in April in accordance with a new regulation that is undoubtedly transparent and uniform, since in one regulation wage relations are regulated for all directors in the public sector. The salaries of the officials are also regulated, and you know that the new regime is awaiting a final decision by the Constitutional Court on salaries, the Government and the National Assembly have done their part, the new regime has been adopted, should enter into force on 1 March, but, as it is said, we are now waiting for a solution because of a decision by the Constitutional Court or a decision by the Constitutional Court. It is known that the new regime for officials went through the government, even though wages are being reduced to ministers, went through the National Assembly, even though Members are also being reduced in salaries, and it is stuck in a court where wages are not being reduced, of course, but only one part of the judge's salary is becoming dependent on work results or work performance. The Medical Service Act does not affect the salary relationship in any way, because it does not provide for a doctor's salary, does not provide for the basic salary of doctors, nor does it provide for supplements, but rather eliminates certain labour problems or differences between doctors and other employees in the public sector. In particular, on-calls employed in health care, not only doctors, including nurses and other accompanying staff or other healthcare workers, are the only ones in the public sector who do not receive full pay during their presence at work, i.e. when they are in the workplace. It's not happening any other time. So, at a time when, say, a police officer is on duty or a night job, we get a full payment for that job. The customs officer in Gruškov, even in the middle of the night, for example, when there is no traffic and there is only less work than in the day or in the tip of the day, he gets full payment for his work, for every hour of his work. It wasn't like that in health care. We have the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, which explicitly states that hours of presence in the workplace should be included in the working hours. And that's all that saves the medical service law. So when a doctor or a nurse is at work and may not be 100% charged at the time of the on call, not on his own account, but at work it must be that he gets full pay for it. However, I strongly support the view that it is necessary to organise on-call health care in as rational a way as possible and that the management must ensure that these on-calls are not called for, if you want, by earnings or wages, but because of the need for a work process. The other thing, the payroll thing regulated by the law, is the payment for the increased volume of work. This payment is already arranged for public administration today, it is regulated for the field of education, it is regulated by the Law on Judicial Service, which is reserved in the Constitutional Court - and more than that! I have offered the same formulation and the same right to representative public sector unions in the form of a change in the law in the public sector wage system. The offer obviously fell at a bad time in front of the union demonstrations, and I had the feeling that this was a time when the unions felt that nothing should be agreed with the government. And we should not have agreed on this extremely favourable solution at the time, but the offer remains on the table and can be taken by the public sector at any time. And I advocate that there is a possibility of paying an increased amount of work for those who accept a higher standard of work, who are willing to do more and better, that this option should exist in the public sector as a whole. Not only for doctors, not just for officials or teachers, but for the whole public sector. So, with all my responsibility, I claim that the law on judicial service does not break the single salary system at any given point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u209	Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Of course, Minister, I cannot fully agree with you, but I also understand from the experience of the previous government that negotiations under the wage system are difficult to regulate the system in the collective agreement and, of course, we all want to have judges who will be well paid and who will do their job well, we want good and satisfied doctors, we want well-paid teachers. I have specifically warned you, in view of the non-compliance in the context of what we write in the law and the way in which we regulate the law in the public sector wage system, where we clearly speak in the fifth indent of Article 32, I will read it, "the amount of the allowances referred to in this Article shall be for the officials referred to in Article 23(3)," these are the officials, "as determined by law and for the public servants by a collective contract for the public sector." In the third paragraph, we say: "Public employees also belong [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] for the time of preparation at home, at work or at a designated place of duty." At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the 2004 agreement concluded, once again, between the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, on the one hand and on the other, as representatives of the workers of the Fides trade union, where they have clearly written under Article 7, how certain issues will be addressed in the collective agreement, once certain issues in the public sector, and once again within the framework of the collective contract for doctors and dentists. Of course, now these things are regulated in marriage. In doing so, I would also like to draw your attention to Mr Strukl's statement, which speaks of the fact that there remain open issues of a greater scope of work or of a higher average performance. Because in law, I specifically talk about the law on medical services, it is transposed into a regulation to be adopted by the government. No one knows this Regulation and this Regulation will not be subject to collective [[End warning sign]] negotiating between unions and, say, the government on the other side. That's why I'm worried about whether there's some kind of collective bargaining on the wage system in the public sector. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u211	Mr. Germich, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u212	put aside or not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u213	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u214	Collective negotiations are, of course, the only key and the only way to conclude a collective agreement for the public sector, so these collective negotiations continue. And this painting of how the current government interrupts or conducts a worse social dialogue with public sector unions is completely out of line. Because the only issue that we have not agreed on so far and has gone uncoordinated is the last amendment to the Public Sector Wage System Act, which dealt with the salaries of officials. And I then assessed that when it comes to the salaries of officials, presidents, Members, ministers, this is not really a matter of collective bargaining or social dialogue. We have heard the union's views on these issues, they did not want the functional salaries to be regulated further, in my opinion mainly because by reducing some of the functional salaries we have placed ourselves as a government in a more favourable negotiating base of higher-up trade unions. However, I believe that the standards of the social partnership are not violated when the government has sent an uncoordinated law to Parliament at the point concerning salaries of officials, which is inconsistent with trade unions. With regard to the Law on Medical Services, I reiterate: there is nothing in this law that would not apply to the whole public sector or that we would not offer to the whole public sector. I therefore argue that this law does not depart from the concept of a single pay system. The increased volume of work is something that is a standing offer, that unions can take it whenever they want, and we will write it down in the Public Sector Wages Act. And this element of pay seems extremely important to me, because I am for a single system, but I am against a rigid administrative and non-flexible system. And I say that the employer must always be able to give additional rewards to those who accept more work. In this way we will be able to solve some of the problems in this country, such as, say, the problem of judicial backlogs, such as the problem of waiting species in health care. Simply, those who will be able to know and who will be willing to accept more work and will do so and thus contribute to the elimination of waiting lines, the reduction of waiting lines, the abolition of judicial backlogs, will also be better rewarded. And taxpayers will always know exactly what they get for their money. So I'm stressing that one more time. As for the on-calls, the same is true - whoever is present in the workplace, we will ensure full payment in the public sector, because we are also bound by the jurisdiction of the courts of the European Communities in Luxembourg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u215	Please, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Despite your fairly precise answers, I would suggest that this content be discussed on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure in the second paragraph on your reply. Why would I suggest that? I could agree with you that the content you are editing somehow does not deviate from what you want to achieve. But the way you use it, I don't think it's the right way. Within the framework of collective agreements, to regulate the content where negotiations with employers and employees need to achieve a somehow comprehensive solution for the public sector as a whole is not to address this issue. You have chosen another way to transfer certain content, instead of negotiating it through a collective agreement, into the content of the law. And, of course, is there any fear that we will talk about at the very beginning of my question about the domination that I know about your position, you are very much against, so that you are committed to unity, transparency and justice, but whether there are ways to go and regulate individual groups in individual legislation through sectors, or whether we are not going back to that way in 1994, when we have settled things in some concepts, then we have reopened the spiral of sectoral negotiation, legal regulation. Of course, I want to, too, and I want to wish this government, given that the two-and-a-half-year government has had great problems, that you have actually experienced problems in a year on your own skin, and of course we want to settle this area to the satisfaction of the entire public sector; so to open up the dilemmas that might arise here, in the interests of resolving this in the end with what is definitely to be done - so to adopt a collective contract for the public sector that will define all the content that we have today - at least in some way - here we have talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u217	On the proposal by Mr Ljub Germić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, the State Assembly will decide on his question in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Health will raise the question of Mr Mitja Slavinec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, due to simplification and faster border crossing procedures with the Member States of the European Union have substantially changed certain fixed routes and freight traffic has increased more than three times across the border crossing of the Duga River and is approaching 100,000 trucks per month. Of course, I'm only talking about those across the border crossing without local traffic and personal vehicles. Such volume of traffic is well above the flow of the G1/3 via Pmurje, which also has harmful and irreparable environmental and health consequences for people living along the road, due to the reduction of safety conditions. Thus, they are exposed to excessive noise, vibrations and emissions of harmful exhausts every day, which, years ago, at a much lower volume of traffic through the city of Murska Sobota, the court found and, with an appropriate legal judgment, limited the volume of traffic through the city, thereby at least partially protecting the rights of the inhabitants to the road. A short calculation also shows that trucks burn and emit more than 10 million litres of oil each year while driving through Pomurje. Once again, 10 million litres of oil. The situation is even more critical as many of the vehicles are older than the production date and are not in line with modern environmental requirements, especially with regard to exhaust emissions. They have a negative impact both on the environment and on the health of people along the road, which is also further threatened by excessive noise and tremors. Dear Minister, in view of all of this, I would like to ask you: What will you do to protect the health of people living along the G1/3 motorway and to prevent further environmental degradation? I also thank you for your reply on behalf of all directly affected citizens and citizens who rightly expect such measures, by which you will, on the one hand, prevent further threats to their health and, on the other hand, the degradation of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u219	Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will try to answer the environmental part of your question; then, in part, we also touch on the health aspect and in the section of the cross-section we are responsible here with our colleague, Bručan, but we are carried in this area by the Ministry of Environment and Space. The solution to the problem of environmental pollution and the impact on human health due to, as you can see, a substantial increase in freight traffic on the G1/3 motorway is most short-term in the fact that this traffic - and here the answer is very transportable - redirects to more appropriate motorways or fast roads. Together, we are pleased to find that we have witnessed an important signature this week and that the dynamics of construction continue at the forecast pace. That's positive information. Other measures that could reduce the impact on the environment and human health and are feasible are long-term. If I mention the improvement in the technology of motor vehicles, especially with regard to emissions of substances into the air or noise into the environment, or another system measure, which is also a traffic measure, this is a shift of road transport to railways, which is also a European practice. In your question, you also mention vehicles of an older date. With regard to excessive emissions of existing trucks at the level of the European Union, there is no regulation in place to restrict or prevent the use of such vehicles. It is true, however, that now the uniform emission standards for motor vehicles relate to the production of new vehicles; this is where the European Union is very consistent. Given the structure of foreign cargo vehicles in transit, it is noted that the state of specific emissions of freight vehicles will be improved and even significantly improved over the next ten years, as the European Union requires compliance with the same emission standards as all other members of the European Union in the short term if I mention Bulgaria and Romania. However, in view of the accelerated construction of the motorway network, we can also expect that freight traffic burdens on the highway will be significantly reduced and, in particular, the shift towards motorway connections. At the same time, this shift towards motorway connections will achieve another measure to improve noise protection. I would also like to stress here that freight traffic also has a major impact on the implementation of the Kyoto commitments adopted by the Republic of Slovenia. And there's a lot of work to be done here. This isn't just about your territory, it's about the whole of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Minister Mag. Bručan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the question and for the presentation to the Chair. On this issue, on the level of noise and air quality along the main road through Prekmurje, our opinion is limited mainly to some of the recent findings that have emerged in this regard within the framework of the European Union. I understand, your concern in this respect is fully justified and, of course, one of the main air pollutants is clearly transport, which, as you probably know, is also very difficult, at least sometimes to remove. Air pollution as a risk factor for disease is constantly or occasionally exposed to every major city in Europe. In Europe, about 90% of the urban population is exposed to excessive dust particles, then also NO2, ozone and benzene. Noise is also an important risk factor for disease and disease. The Ministry of Health does not have direct powers in relation to this activity around this noise and air pollution in Prekmurje, but the Ministry of Health has actively integrated itself into the field of environmental impact on human health and cooperates with the Ministry of Environment and Space. Pursuant to Article 42 of the Environmental Protection Act, the Ministry of Health shall issue an opinion on the appropriateness of environmental reports for intended interventions to the premises and opinions on the acceptability of interventions to the premises in terms of the competence of the Ministry of Health. This is mainly from the point of view of public health protection within the Directorate responsible for this, this is the Directorate for Public Health [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinac, would you like an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, at least the first part of the answer I understood that the population should wait three years, but it will be better. But these three years need to survive, and they will also find it difficult to accept an additional 30 million litres of oil at this time pissed off near them. You're ministers, so I wanted to hear your answers, not suggest some things. Well, then, after Socrates, I will try to ask questions about possible solutions, as people see them and of course possible solutions. I mentioned the restrictions on traffic with a legal judgment earlier, since we can be aware of how this affects people's health, noise and shaking during their night rest. We already have this case through the city of Murska Sobota, the easiest way to expand it for the whole of Pomurje. Furthermore, there are now no formal reasons for the ecological tax collected at the time of the transfer of the Lendava congregation. However, we know that in the case of technical inspections of motor vehicles, they also measure exhaust emissions. One option is to ensure that, at the border crossing when entering, the level of exhaust emissions and vehicles whose emissions exceed the applicable regulations in Slovenia are simply rejected and, in this way, at least minimally contribute to the deterioration of health consequences and to environmental degradation, as little as possible, and to ensure that foreigners respect the laws as they are with us and our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u225	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u226	I'd just like to complete my answer for a moment. Traffic flows are a fact that determines us [[?]] in modern ways of communication. And from your attempts, I did not find any concrete solution. But together we can see that the most Slovenian country has done is that it has kept its word on the pace of building a modern, fast road or highway. That's the first step. The second step is more strategic for part of the freight traffic to be diverted to the railway. The third step is to consistently require countries entering the European Union to have their vehicles as technology and emission standards as applicable for all other members of the European Union. These are some kind of commitments. However, as regards the ecological tax in municipalities that are borderline, it is known that these taxes did not have legal basis and were therefore abolished. The municipalities, however, have been able to obtain from these resources some of the necessary resources in the last few years, which have been well spent, especially to regulate border crossings and some important infrastructure facilities. This is particularly true for areas along the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u227	Mr Drago Koren, Minister for Environment and Space, will ask the question of the mission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u228	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to the ministers and all those who insist on this evening in this Chamber. The rules on criteria for the determination of water protection zones lay down the prohibition on the installation of small cleaning plants in water protection areas. The Regulation explicitly states in its annex the prohibition on the construction of these. In the third water protection areas, it is possible to place non-flowable water wells, as it is necessary to remove waste water and waste mud into the cleaning or treatment of municipal treatment plants, which is of course associated with very high costs. In water - protection areas there are large settlements with houses that have old sewers. Any intervention in these cesspools and their recovery is almost impossible. The construction of sewer lines and cleaning facilities is neither spirit nor hearing. The municipal plans are certainly written on paper, as they are also required by European directives and the reality is much more subtle. Many plans for the installation of cleaning appliances and sewers are highly optimistic. In many cases, these are settlements that have been built in the same way. It is therefore more difficult and costly to build such systems. One possible solution to this problem would be to allow the installation of small, including individual, cleaning appliances. The development of these recently has made great progress, and this technology is now enabling quality treatment of waste water that meets European standards. This would enable people to rehabilitate the existing flow wells and at the same time protect and protect the environment more. Please, if you can explain in more detail the reasons for prohibiting the installation of small types of cleaning plants in water protection areas, if they are clearly more environmentally friendly than existing wells. What is the sustainable solution strategy for wastewater treatment and also includes small individual treatment plants? At the end. How is the partial exemption of the environmental pollution levy? Can we expect environmentally-aware citizens to receive certain reliefs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u229	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Eco-aware citizens are already receiving some reliefs, but given your question, which could be described in a schematic way, we have European directives, we have municipal plans, but life is different or in what way new technologies, especially those that have apparently made it possible for small cleaning plants to become attractive to implement them and to bring them into Slovenian practice. And especially you are touching water protection areas, not the whole sphere. Your question touches on the rules on criteria for determining water protection areas, the law on environmental protection and the rules on the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal, waste and precipitation water. When we checked the sectoral regulations that I just quoted, we found out the following. The general prohibition of the construction of small cleaning plants in water protection areas, except in the narrowest areas, is not the water protection zone I. Of course, under the assumption that water is purified in accordance with the rules in force. However, direct discharge of wastewater into groundwater is prohibited. It also prohibits indirect decommissioning of municipal waste water into groundwater in the narrowest water protection areas. In narrower and wider water protection areas, however, where this is the case, the rules governing the water protection regime in these areas are laid down. However, for existing facilities and in areas where construction is permitted, the individual Water Protection Regulation may lay down either a stricter or a milder water protection regime, provided that this requires certain specificities of an area, geological or other, which are established on the basis of the rules governing the establishment of such an area, but which are contained in the Regulation previously cited. Measures in specific water protection areas will or will be prescribed in individual regulations that the Government accepts for individual water protection areas for specific water bodies, some of which are currently under preparation in the government. Accordingly, both cleaning facilities and accompanying infrastructure and facilities, pipelines, unique plants, etc. must be carried out. A relatively complicated answer. On your question, how is it stimulated by those who are ecologically conscious of the next answer? The third paragraph of Article 10 of the Environmental Administration Regulation provides that a public service user is to be excluded from municipal waste water through a small municipal treatment plant operating in accordance with a regulation governing emissions of substances by decommissioning waste water from small cleaning plants, accounting for an environmental duty of only 15% of the units of loading. This is said, in the case of a small utility that you are asking about, let's say that it operates in a prescribed manner, the owner of such a device is already charged only 15% of the full environmental duty. We also anticipate in our ministry that, in the next budget period, such a new financial perspective, as well as in Slovenia, we would provide financial incentives for the construction of small municipal cleaning facilities. These are the measures that many Slovenian municipalities and regions are looking forward to and, of course, will ensure that all water protection areas, which will also be defined by the regulations, are protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u231	Mr Aleš Gulič will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u232	Dear President, distinguished Minister, several colleagues and colleagues! My question will be brief, but I would still explain something at the beginning. We expected much from the new law or last year's new law on road safety. The pessimists said that this would certainly not be much known; the optimists put a lot of emphasis on this, but the realists did, taking into account other factors that increase safety in traffic, in some ways saw the minimum. But what happened, I don't think anyone expected it. In fact, since last year or at the beginning of the year, for example, if we count today on an average of 140 car accidents, 9 people have died. This year 57 people have died on our roads, 8 more than in the same period last year. We know that these local regional roads are in very bad shape after this severe winter, that those jobs that are supposed to do their job have not yet done so or very badly. First of all, it's sand-cleaning, and now the ground's joined, and I've never seen anyone clean it up after themselves when it comes out of the field on the road, even though I should have done it, and something else. The issue is mainly related to the effects of the amendment to the Road Safety Act, which entered into force on 1 December last year. Since the facts are such as: What will be the next road safety measures, since these penalties that the drivers receive are being given, they fill the state treasury more than they increase safety? They don't even seem to have a scary effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u233	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. If I start with a stat. Statistics are changing very quickly so that from the time you asked the question, statistics are already slightly different. Unfortunately, the number of dead is still virtually identical to that of last year. Last night another life was extinguished on Slovenian roads, here on the Ljubljana bypass. The statistics show that one driver is more dead this year than last year. Each such disaster is a very great loss to a single family, as well as other damage to the country. With the adoption of the law that entered into force last year, some optimistically predicted that other pessimistically, in the police force, when I took up my mandate, I was very clear that the effects of any law which prescribes new higher penalties than the law in this case have short-term effects. The effects are short-term in the first period, a few months when people are afraid of this effect of these penalties. Later we get into some routine and, of course, the penalties no longer have any effect. Whoever expects that only the penalties and penal policy and strict punishment of all drivers by police officers will work in such a way that we have fewer dead people on Slovenian roads, is very wrong. The road safety problem is linked to a lot of things. First, if we start with ourselves. First by our behaviour, then it also depends on the quality of the roads we have, the education we have through the school process, and, last but not least, the way we train drivers and possibly additional training in the following driving career, if I say so. Here are some other factors, certain measures that could be implemented to a greater extent than we have. With great sadness last year, I reviewed the road safety and last few years' plan and found that only one body, and the police, had done so to a large extent what was planned and set up in the national transport safety plan. All the others who should be involved in the various projects have somehow pushed their work aside. Now we're trying to push things forward with another moment. It is already being prepared at the Ministry of Transport, which is the carrier, in cooperation with other ministries to be involved, from the interior ministry, the police, education, health, a new multiannual road safety plan or programme. Here are the reserves with which we can fully solve this problem. The area of punishment is practically exhausted in Slovenia. In Slovenia, in the last two years it has been practical to take statistics from 2004, over 600,000 drivers have been punished, virtually every other driver in Slovenia has been punished, and practically a third of the Slovenian population has been punished in last year. With the amendment of this law, the number of criminal measures has fallen because the number of warnings has increased. This total has still been warned and punished by some 600,000, so we have virtually no more reserves here to do so. Nor did the police ever have and will they ever have so many resources, technical, and also police officers who could stand at all ends of the road, so that the work of police officers is focused on those critical points that we know and detect and then we monitor road safety more deliberately there. I think that the integrity of solving this issue is that all ministries, all the departments, all the departments together, take all the steps they can take and make sure that all of us who are drivers will be much more patient on the roads and a culture that may not be at the same level as we would like to go up to such a level that we will be more patient and careful to drive.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u235	Please, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u236	In fact, the complementary issue has now arisen with everything you have said, Mr Minister. You're also talking about other factors. Which I think is very important: Are you thinking about refresher courses for drivers before renewal of driving licences? Will you include those who are more concerned, such as from a civil initiative such as motorist activists in Slovenia, who arrange courses for unforeseen road situations that a person should not learn on the road, but elsewhere, are these things in mind or something else? Because I know that this is how the prevention council is silently shut down, and I'm supposed to move to the agency, but it won't if I can explain this a little bit more precisely, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u237	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you. This is another question, but I will still answer it, because I think it is right to answer it. The first part you've described is what you're thinking. Yes, there is also consideration of these matters and also of such options. Unfortunately, in the past, Slovenian legislation has allowed us all to extend our driving licences to, I don't know, for example, me until 2040, and you all know how you handled it. However, there will have to be some modes here to prepare drivers, including those who, if I say so, are old drivers or young people with very little experience who are a very risky group in traffic, how to prepare them to participate in these special forms of training, education practically as some schools already have safe driving in Slovenia. These are the ways in which as many people as possible could get involved in this, those everyday drivers, because this brings us to our goal. However, with regard to the world of road traffic prevention and education, I must make it very clear that there is no silent withdrawal. It's not about any such activity. The point is that matters are regulated by law, that the world will act as it is. The world will not be brought to an end; it will work as it has done so far. He'll keep his outside associates. The world will be its long-standing tradition of volunteer work [[their work is voluntary]] keep it at the local level, and there will be no changes, as some are likely to try to present them. It is true, however, that the professional core of the five employees who are now "in the air", if I say so, will be employees at the Ministry and will be doing all the work they have done so far for the needs of the world, so that they will not suffer the projects that have been planned and are already running in the past, nor the projects for which they have applied from European funds and will continue as they are doing. However, the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council will continue to play an important role which it has played so far in the Slovenian space. I also have to say that in this training of tourists, if I say so myself, the police have played quite a role. She has performed a number of actions or takes them out every year, where police officers who drive motors try to show special skills. We are preparing various courses, if I say so, or training in the field where we are trying to attract as many young people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u239	Mrs Breda Pecan will ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you to all four colleagues and to your colleagues for staying in the Chamber, otherwise with Mr Podobnik and the Vice-President and his colleagues, we would stay alone and then have a drink. I would like to ask you about registering real estate. I'm going to ask a question that seems extremely important to me and it's very difficult, actually. It is that we have before us very difficult tasks relating to the recording of real estates - we adopt the law at this meeting - and the subsequent mass valuation of property, while the last amendment of the housing law has also instructed us to establish and maintain a register of dwellings in connection with the disaster of buildings run by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. However, no administrative unit in the country did so on the basis of the 1991 Housing Act, because they allegedly did not have the implementing acts at their disposal. We come to very unusual conclusions in the congregations. Thus, it is very common practice that the Geodetic Administration does not implement all the instructions contained in the rules on entries in the cadastral buildings, specifically set out in Article 29, which refers to the first entry of the building and also to its parts and the obligation of the geodetic administration referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, which states: "The request for the first entry into the cadastral building shall be rejected by the Geodetic Administration if the request is not submitted with a prescribed building permit." As a result, individual building owners are apparently legalizing interventions into buildings that previously, without building permits from one or two buildings, from basements or from attics, have created five, six or even multi-inhabitation buildings, on the geodesic board have obtained registration of the building, its parts into the cadaster of buildings and thus the modified building are entered into the land book and sold to discerning customers. In this way they additionally burden the municipal infrastructure, the pressure on previously occupied parking spaces is set to climb, the fences and the real estate dealer goes to the following buildings with which he will earn at least double the sum for the original assets. The rules of housing which are the product of such chaining do not at all meet the conditions laid down in the Regulation on Minimum Technical Requirements for the Construction of Housing and Housing, but, of course, on the Geodetic Board, they do not ask how the proposals for the first entry into the cadastral buildings are inconsistent with the rules. I would like to ask: How will you take action to prevent the clandestine legalisation of black buildings on existing residential buildings, which the Geodetic Administration of Slovenia does not or does not know? Will you take action against real estate agencies most often engaged in such illegal activities and ensure that they are deprived of their licence to carry out their activities? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u241	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mrs Pecanov has asked me tonight the most difficult question of all. The answer to your final question is whether you will take action against real estate agencies involved in this illegal activity and ensure that they are deprived of their licence to carry out their activities: yes. Where a real estate company or a real estate intermediary does not carry out its work in accordance with the prudential nature of a good expert and if it does not notify the customer in writing of the legal and real errors found on the real estate, that may be the reason for the withdrawal of licences. In the case of an intermediary where it has been found that he has violated the rules for the safe and prudential operation of real estate, the Ministry, by a decision on the administrative procedure, may even withdraw the licence on a permanent basis. Now the answer to the first part of the question, which is more complex, is what we will do about the so-called covert legalisation of black buildings in existing residential buildings, which are supposed to be carried out by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia or the so-called chain. In my firm belief in the current legislation, the Geodetic Authority does not have and cannot have any formal basis for the so-called covert legalisation of black buildings in its procedures. However, I must tell you that this question that you have asked me has also been addressed to me in the last weeks and months from some other areas near your congregation. We have a cadastral building, this is a property registration law, state borders and units space in 2000, we also have a register of apartments, the housing law introduced it. The municipalities don't run this anymore. According to our estimate, the register of dwellings turns out to be unnecessary. In the first change of the housing law, we're going to end it. The question now arises as to what the geodetic undertaking in the recruitment of a building or laboratory for the purpose of changing the type of use must state: the building number is allowed and the name of the authority it issued, the license number and the name of the body and the client’s statement that it is a building considered to have a usable permit. The data on these permits shall be obtained by the geodetic undertaking upon enquiry by the customer, i.e. the recipient of the laboratory. They're asking him. If a party declares that it does not have a permit or data, it shall be recorded in the laboratory that there is no data on the construction of the building. However, even if there were no such legal arrangements, the entries of buildings in the cadastral buildings for which no permit has been submitted do not constitute legalisation of the building or part of the building. If anyone interprets like that, he interprets the procedure and the law absolutely wrong. There's another procedure for that. It shall be managed by an administrative unit in accordance with the rules governing another area. Thus, by entering buildings, in this case also illegally built buildings and parts thereof into public records, the State obtains some important information on all buildings in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but this entry of buildings, the entry of buildings into the cadastral buildings does not mean, I repeat, the acquisition of property rights in these buildings or parts of buildings. If a different interpretation or practice were to take place, then this is the reason for some of the other procedures that I have available as a minister. In your question, you clearly state the following. The request for the first registration of the building in the cadastral buildings shall be rejected by the Geodetic Administration if the request is not submitted with a prescribed building permit. This was the case until 2003. However, when the new law on the regulation of buildings and the new ZUREP came into force, these direct provisions, which spoke of the building permit, were no longer in force. Since then, this possible disinterpretation of the procedure itself has clearly emerged. I reiterate that, in my firm belief, the Geodetic Authority does not have any legal basis in order to enforce in its procedures a disguised legalisation of black buildings in existing housing facilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u244	I downloaded this rule from the Ministry of Environment and Space's website. It is not written anywhere that the Regulation no longer applies. Article 29 of this Regulation, the second paragraph of which is still in force, should either be written down below or at the same time that this Article no longer applies. I will give a concrete example when it is a customer, this is a real estate agency, and I guarantee you that when I come back to the congregation, I will make sure that it is registered at the Ministry of Environment and Space, I will send it to you so that I will certainly come into the right hands. Despite the fact that the house, which had changed from double-dwelling to five-dwelling, did not have a permit for this construction, which it should have had, because they had intervened in the change of use and because it was an additional burden on the environment, this agency representative laughed at us in a mustache, since the geodetic management had not refused entry into the cadaster of buildings and that the agency could therefore enter the data into the land book and then sell the apartments and some of these apartments were leased. We learn this for very "weird" reasons because we have a practice such as a decree so that whoever is a tenant or owner of an apartment in the old city core can get a special free parking permit in a city centre with one car, we can find out where these people suddenly have six apartments or five apartments in a building, where we know because we're home there, that there were only two apartments. And that means that at the geodetic board of this article they do not implement [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone - incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you very much. So I'd like to repeat the following. Entry into the cadastre of buildings does not mean the acquisition of ownership or otherwise, recording the situation in the space is not legalisation. Now the answer to your question, to the question of legal experts who know this area, to the question of whether the provision of article 29 of the 2002 cadastre of buildings with two laws, the Law on the Construction of Buildings and the Law on the Regulation of Space has passed this provision. Their answer was yes. The Construction Act is in its provisions because the law is stronger than the Regulation, so that since then, since 2003, both laws have entered into force, there has been no longer an obligation under Article 29(2) to require the first entry into the cadaster of buildings by the Geodetic Administration if the request has not been submitted with a prescribed building permit. This is the answer of legal experts based on your question of the mission. But I will learn even more about the whole matter and give you a written answer. I'll be happy to have your document delivered to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you. This concludes the Members' questions. I thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for the answers given. I conclude this item on the agenda, thanking Mr President, Mr Slavinc, Mr Gulic, Mr Mikolić and Mrs Breda Pecan for insisting to the end, as well as Minister Podobnik, who has been very active today. Thank you very much. I am adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
