ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear Members! Please take your seats. I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Roberto Battelli, Victory Jelinčič noble and Breda Pecan. I have invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 21st item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ombudsman and the two candidates for the Deputy Ombudsman to the 26th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 3 July 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. Therefore, Members and Members of Parliament are asked to check the voting devices, namely an orange light must be lit on the right side of the card. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 19th meeting of the assembly has been set. I'm putting an end to this session and we'll continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u2	Dear Members! We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this item on the agenda, we are moving on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written notifications from 26 Members and Members within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. First, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will answer the question raised at the 18th meeting of the assembly, to which she did not respond due to her absence. It's a Magnificent message. Majda Potrat and Members of Parliament, Dr. Matija Slavinec, Mag. Borut Saiovic and mag. Milan M. Cwickl, who has submitted two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who are registered ask one question. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister on Thursday, 13 July 2006, at 2 p.m. Members have 3 minutes to ask questions, Prime Minister and Ministers reply to questions within five minutes at the most, even if the question is raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. On this point, Prime Minister Janez Janša and the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Dimitrij Rupel and Minister of the Interior Dragutin Mate. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in a bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will answer the question of mag. Boruta Saiovica in connection with the operation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u3	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! Thank you for the question concerning the payment of funds arising from the programme of work of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, because the government was not supposed to give consent to this programme. Your Honor! I inform you that on 22 June the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave its consent to the programme of work of the agri-agricultural chamber and that most of the payments for which the agri-agricultural chamber has delivered the relevant documentation have also been paid. By the way, allow me to briefly present to you the procedures for adopting the programme and the duties that each individual has to perform in preparing this programme. In 2005 in June, the Ministry of Agriculture gave guidance on the preparation of the 2006 agri-agricultural chamber programme. The Chamber shall, in accordance with Article 22 of the Law on the Chamber in the framework of its professional services and offices, prepare a programme for the work of the Chamber and forward it to the Ministry of Agriculture for approval. The Ministry of Agriculture adopted this programme on 9 May 2006 for 2006. On the same day, the Ministry forwarded the programme to inter-departmental coordination to individual ministries, and in particular the Ministry of Finance has a major share here. Let me say that the programme is 262 pages, a financial burden of 7 billion, of which 4 billion 160 million is part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to pay for the maintenance of the relevant professional services, advisory services and other services. The Ministry of Finance has given priority to this programme. On two occasions, the Chamber called for a supplement and on 16 June 2006 gave its consent to this programme. On 22 June, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed this programme. As I have already said, it has adequately paid out the resources for the services provided for 2006. With regard to your questions regarding the reorganisation of the Chamber, I would like to clarify that a thorough analysis is being prepared of the situation in the area of the work of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, which will be the basis for the preparation or amendment of the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. In accordance with these analyses, we will decide in what form and content the amendment of the law will be. I would like to draw further attention here to the provisions of the coalition treaties which oblige us to do so in the drafting of the law. If the coalition decides otherwise, the law will, of course, be prepared accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Saiovic, you want to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister and to the other ministers and, of course, also to the Members and Members. With your agreement, I am partly satisfied, because this solution that we have reached may, as we say, be a little late, but from the heart, but for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer and the countryside, and finally also for the benefit of the Chamber. But maybe you'll agree with me that it's not normal for someone to get paid after six months for a job he's already done at the beginning of the year. From your mouth, I hear there's some guilt on the side of the chamber. This will also be checked and demanded by the members of the Chamber to improve, as these complications are repeated year after year and not least by Slovenian farmers and the Chamber suffered some financial damage for this. For the current operation of the Chamber, loans had to be taken from business banks and therefore additional costs had to be incurred, which were not planned under the programme of work of the Chamber. As far as the organisation and reorganisation of this Chamber is concerned, I think it is better if this Chamber is not the way politics wants it, but if the Chamber is to be the way it wants it and needs a Slovenian farmer. I hope that things in this area will not go in the direction that has been pointed out recently, so that before the eyes of the Slovenian public in the Odessa and the daily news shows, the representatives of the Chamber and the Govedarian Business Association argue. Any such flow of information is not for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer, but even less for the benefit of the development of the Slovenian countryside. That is why I expect you to take all measures at the Ministry to avoid such complications in the coming year as this year. Still, thank you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u7	Maybe another explanation. Farmers have suffered no harm. I must say that the agricultural advisory service has done its work properly and well at this time, even though it has not really received payments. However, I propose to the agri-economic chamber that the programme for next year begin to be prepared now and that it be prepared by the new year, and that we can start to implement the payment month of January.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you. Since there is no Minister of Economy and Minister of Finance, I ask whether you want to ask Mr Milan Petek a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u9	I want to ask you a question because I owe it to you because of the problem I'm going to describe. First of all, I regret that both ministers to whom I refer are not present. However, I hope that the answer will not come in writing too late. I hope it's sent as soon as possible. What am I asking both ministers? The municipality of Maribor was the first major Slovenian city to solve the problem of cleaning municipal waste and precipitation by building a central cleaning plant in 2002. The city, which in most areas is lagging behind the development of other parts of Slovenia, has indeed met all these requirements by taking into account environmental obligations within the deadlines established by the Ministry of the Environment in previous governments, but has built a cleaning plant probably in the most expensive way possible, by building it under the BOT system. This means that the concessionaire, who has built and now manages the cleaning plant, charges the service fee, which consequently heavily burdens the citizens of Maribor as well as the budget of the municipality of Maribor. In this entire cleaning system, the final product is mud to be taken to the incinerator. The contractor of this transport is the public utility Snaga d.o.o., which already submitted an application in January 2006 for a change in the price of the service of cleaning of municipal, waste and precipitation water due to the regular removal of mud. The process of obtaining a positive opinion at the Ministry of the Environment lasted almost six months. Incomprehensible for a long time, typical bureaucratic treatment of the claim has led the Maribor public company Strength to a position where it has created a 20 million loss for at least a month, which is simply no longer to cover with other activities. By issuing a positive opinion on the proposed prices by the Ministry of the Environment on 16.6. this year, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance are in the process of certification. The question is therefore addressed to both ministers. We ask: Are there any reservations to confirm the proposed price? If they are, what are your reservations? If there are no reservations, please provide me with a deadline or the latest date of confirmation of the price. I would also like to draw the attention of the Minister to the Government if the price for the removal of mud is not immediately confirmed, the Force will be forced to stop for business reasons by removing mud, which in Maribor and in the wider area can lead to an ecological and economic disaster of inconceivable dimensions. In such a case, it may also be the fault of the municipality to terminate the concession contract between the company, which therefore performs the cleaning plant and the municipality of Maribor. The damage is estimated at between €85 million and €100 million. All this damage will have to be compensated by both the municipality of Maribor and the state of Slovenia. As a result of these consequences, I ask for an accurate or at least indicative date for the validation of the assessment at both ministries. But I want an answer in writing. I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you. I hope your wish is granted as soon as possible. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Beast a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers! On 10 April, Mr Minister, I asked you a written question on the rules for the validation of textbooks. Although I received an answer within the prescribed time limit, which did not explain the problem to me in any way, on 18 May I requested a supplement to the answer. But I didn't get that, as has been said. That's why I'm asking you an oral question. I believe that a high-quality public school is in the national interest and therefore they must be responsible for school policy if they are not coordinated among the partners, at least on the ground. The textbook validation regulation has been in force since 3 June and will be in force as from 1 August and would therefore expect the answers to be known. I see the Regulation as a logical consequence of the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education adopted in June last year. You are aware that I objected to the amendment to Article 21, because I thought it, but now I am sure that the teacher's autonomy will not be established, but will be faced with great pressure, formal and informal when deciding on textbooks and teachings. In doing so, decisions on the purchase and use of work volumes are at the heart of the problem. I therefore asked you: Will you take into account the comments of the interested and professional public and how you will include them in the preparation of the textbook validation rules? What analytical and expert analyses justify the projected changes? What are the expected effects of the changes already adopted and planned, not only on the use of work volumes, but mainly on the quality of learning? With what framework conditions and systemic solutions will you ensure the functioning of school autonomy so that the principle of equality is not compromised? How will you combat informal pressure on teachers and teachers and school leaders? The professional public is that the subject of the approval of the General Education Council was overlooked by the textbooks alone, but not by the textbooks. But when the rules were read, the professional and interested public came forward. When the Regulation was drawn up, the variety of views was fully revealed. Part of the public praised the regulation because it would prevent supposed wealth at the expense of work volumes, while others pointed out in particular the consequences that would not benefit from the quality of teaching, nor from the principle of equality. I therefore base or repeat all the questions raised so far, and ask again: What are the grounds for this decision that led you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your question. Allow me first a brief introduction before I specifically answer these questions. The teacher uses atlases, encyclopaedias, lexicons, dictionaries, scientific sources, newspaper articles, articles from magazines, art literature, novels, dramas, poetry, essays, reproductions of artistic services, auditory artistic material, recordings of compositions, literature and own materials, photographic and film materials, literature, auditory material, didactic materials, including publishing materials and own materials, written exercises, writings, study papers, individual or integrals, this may be the material of works or own materials, teaching papers in the context or working volumes, as well as the material of publications and own materials, electronic learning materials, sources from the world, textbooks and teaching aids, so this whole set of resources used in the educational process. However, last year's amendment to the law has directed the professional council to confirm only textbooks but not all of this, including teaching aids, on the basis of this amendment of the law, which is also normal, since otherwise the professional council would have too much work and could not do its work. Everything else is left to the autonomous judgement of a teacher, one of these teaching aids that he will use besides the textbook. Workbooks, too. There is no indication that the working volumes after this amendment could not be applied after this adoption of the Regulation. Tell me where it says, which rule requires one that goes this way so that it can justify such an attitude. Just the opposite of what you say. All these teaching aids will then be able to be used autonomously by the teacher or he will decide for himself what is reasonable and appropriate to include in the teaching process. We believe in the ability of teachers to judge this rationally. In particular, today, when we speak of an ever-increasing degree of individualisation or personalisation of the learning process, this means that the teacher adapts all these teachings and all the resources used in the teaching process. The principle of equality that you are talking about must also be seen in the light of the complementaryness of this principle, which I now take from the White Paper, which you know well, is also linked to a differentiated offer at all stages which allows for the right to choose different educational content and paths. We believe that this proposal has also enabled this principle to be realized. Then why does the teacher’s professional world confirm it? Mostly for two reasons. Because the textbook also prescribes a kind form, i.e. the weight of the textbook. This is right because young people have carried extremely heavy bags in schools, especially in some subjects, the textbooks are extremely difficult and we have set limits here. The first reason, however, is that the textbook has to be harmonized, in line with the objectives of the curriculum. In this sense, the rule you are talking about does not mean any restrictions. It increases the autonomy of the teacher. As you yourself have determined, this is where the public split. Some are more on the side of capital or the interests of publishers who see great profits and interest in this activity, while the other part of the public is on the side of parents who have bought everything so far, even though this was not necessary in the educational process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u15	Mr. Minister, you are aware that I also trained professors at the Slovenian level. I read my own co-author. What you told me about the textbooks is now clear, not completely, but also on learning materials, learning aids and learning tools I get to know myself. But if in fact the quality of what the teacher will bring to the classroom is at the heart of you, then it would be appropriate that at least working volumes, but I am talking about separate work volumes and also those working volumes that are associated with textbooks, in Slovenian this is especially true, and you are the assets of the Slovenian teachers to this particular note, in many publications, in many authors it is very important which textbooks and which work volumes will the teacher choose. For such an autonomous teacher, a catalogue of textbooks and work volumes was very important. Look, I have here a published survey between 805 teachers and teachers 97.1 for primary school and 96.5 replied that they would decide when choosing by catalogue. If the expert council does not take this decision, it will also mean that they will not use work volumes as the only material, in primary school one-quarter, and in secondary school close to one-fifth. This is said to have directed the teacher to a catalogue of essential importance, but I am sorry, sorry, you have not yet given one professional argument for your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you for your word and the opportunity to try to explain again. Don't hold what you say. In the catalog below B the kit will still be laid down all, including work volumes, only under A sets are not. You know that. And I don't know where you got this information, what survey and research you leaned on, but I hope not on what was paid for in one of the Slovenian journals, where Rokus actively paid for the campaign against the Ministry of Education, concerning this issue. In the background of textbook issues, it is in particular a matter of capital interest or we are trying to defend the part of Slovenian capital that is trying to create and influence school policy in any way or we will not allow it. You are well aware that the controversy with NPZs and the graduation and external knowledge checks are closely linked to the interests of publishers and the issue of textbooks and the only issue that is closely related to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, you have a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u19	Of course I do. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the reply of Minister Milan Zver to the question of correspondence, because it seems to me that it is also possible to understand from the answer the professional degradation of those experts who point out what such a decision may be made in the Rules of Procedure because it attributes only capital interests to questions on this subject. I believe there are capital interests in the back, too, because you probably don't think anyone's going to publish textbooks for free. But given that the answers from the Ministry of Education also include such answers that go into the social question when it comes to speech, that if parents want the children to write in textbooks from the textbook, they should buy the textbook, that the thing is too simplified and that it should be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you. On the proposal of the Ambassador mag. Majda Pót that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zvera, to her question, will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and colleagues, distinguished visitors! At a recent consultation on the modern management of municipal waste in the organization of the newspaper Finance entitled "To form a secure future for the environment" we have learned the state and activities in neighbouring countries, in Koroška and in Venice as well as in Slovenia. The situation in neighbouring countries has been demonstrated by the envy of the valuable waste separation or collection system, and in particular their systematic use as raw materials or energy. In the presentation of the situation in Slovenia, it was noted that there are still many untapped options and, given the situation in our neighbours, there are also some backlogs for these two federal countries of Italy and Austria. Later, I attended a conference on biomass and renewable energy sources, which also showed that there are still many untapped opportunities in Slovenia or that we can speak or that we can notice a certain lag behind already mentioned neighbouring countries. Otherwise, there are bright points in the railways, in Vransk, in Kočev, which are insufficiently or also overshadowed by an inadequate system in the Predvor. In addition, closing down the sugar factory in Ormož offers opportunities for a greater and more decisive step in the production of bio-diesel. Forest biomass is poorly exploited or is still highly likely to be used, or it is observed that it is quite redeemable for a better organised market in our neighbors. I therefore ask: Are there any additional measures that are envisaged in addition to the measures already presented and taken to accelerate activities in the more cost-effective management of waste and a greater share of renewable and alternative energy sources, with which we will achieve the already established standards of our neighbours, or will we somehow align ourselves with them? There is also a great danger of their companies being able to penetrate the Slovenian market or the possibilities are to involve Slovenian companies and take over these untapped potentials, and in this way we can catch up with our neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Ziherl, for your question. First, on your very specific question. Are there any additional measures to be taken in addition to those already presented and adopted to accelerate action on more cost-effective waste management? My answer is that all the measures are only those that have a basis in European legislation, directives and subsequently transposed into Slovenia's legal order. Allow me, however, to give a slightly more detailed answer to this question of yours, which is also related to the content of a very well-accepted consultation, which you have obviously also attended and talked about cases of good practices from the neighbouring Republics of Austria and Italy. Perhaps a basic information that is encouraging after all. All the comparisons we have made in preparation for this meeting show that the situation in the field of waste management in Slovenia is improving. We have information that virtually all municipalities have introduced separate collection of waste at source. That's a big step forward. A very important new information is that the quantities of waste produced are no longer increasing. In the last progress report, we also wrote because we had old data to increase the amount of waste in Slovenia. However, the latest data suggests that this is no longer the case, so the trend has turned. The system of use of secondary raw materials also works. Finally, it is in the process of building the first heat station in Slovenia. In Cel, it will also use alternative fuel produced from waste as a fuel. This is also a big step forward. We also have statistics that the amount of waste produced in Slovenia, which we said is not increasing, is 790 thousand tonnes of municipal waste. In Slovenia, however, there are many public service providers of waste collection, transport and disposal. There are currently 57 registered. One of the important objectives of the national environmental protection programme has been, and we are successfully applying, to reduce the generation and separation of waste at source and to increase the primary energy use of waste and to reduce the amount of waste that has been dumped on landfills. The regulation we have recently adopted, in my view, will further motivate those who are competent in this area. We also have data on the state of landfills that point to the closing trend: 24 municipal and 11 industrial, which are in the process of closing; 28 municipal and 11 industrial, which are in the process of adapting. We only have seven new utilities and one industrial landfill. The operators were also obliged to report the quantities and types of waste disposed of in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation by 31 March this year. The latest data from this data is that we produce 356 kilograms per inhabitant of municipal waste in Slovenia, and we also produce 94 thousand 748 tonnes of non-communal waste. So if we add up the communes, which are 700,000, plus the non-communal ones, we get 404 kilograms per capita. When I said this in this consultation, we found that if we compare ourselves with developed Italy, we are no longer lagging behind them. However, this is positive information. I would also like to say that, despite some problems in Slovenia, we have already overcome some relatively large obstacles in determining locations for regional construction or operation centres. It rotates six, half of Slovenia is already covered, and intensive preparations are under way for other regional centres to create appropriate organisation. One of the important instruments that you ask me if anything new remains environmental benefits. This is a mechanism through which we influence different levels to reduce environmental pollution by waste or to reduce soil, air and water pollution. Environmental pollution benefits are the mechanism through which we "force" both municipalities and all citizens to pollute the environment as little as possible. It's a so-called positive motivation system. The problem of renewable and alternative sources of energy. Short answer. On 6 July this year, at its last meeting, the Government amended the buying-in price of electricity from qualified producers. The purchase price of electricity produced from biomass increased by 35%. Finally, this price is comparable to those in Austria and Italy and the new purchase price for electricity from wood biomass will amount to 22.5 tolars per kilowatt hour of energy produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much, again. In fact, I am satisfied with the answer and welcome all the trends they are preparing at the Ministry. I am delighted to welcome them. I wish that, if possible, we could move a little faster. I might also ask the Minister: Are there any opportunities to reach European funds, especially for the larger regional centres that are still envisaged? Only a larger regional centre can introduce these modern technologies. I agree with the Minister that separate gathering, separation at the source, is a good step, but something more industrialised can only be for a wider region there from 150,000 people forward. This area is also somewhat more eligible for European funding. Are there any other options in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u26	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you for the additional question. Allow me to answer the following. With the entry of the European Union, Slovenia has established a so-called transitional period of 5 years in the field of water pollution reduction to achieve the objectives of waste municipal water treatment. We are pleased to find that by the end of 2005, we have fully met the requirements of the transitional period and that in all settlements, with more than 100,000 inhabitants, we have already made it possible to operate cleaning plants. Unfortunately, the last one in this case was Ljubljana, the capital. It's a success. We expect, I am sure that we will be able to meet the following requirement by 2010, and these are cleaning facilities for more than 15,000 people, and by 2015, for settlements with more than two thousand inhabitants. These are also the provisions of the EU Association Agreement of the Republic of Slovenia. As for the water network, we have 90% connected to it in Slovenia and 60% connected to the sewers. As far as waste is concerned, Slovenia has established an infrastructure financing system. These are municipal waste dumps and collection centres for their treatment before they're removed. By the end of 2008, Slovenia will be able to manage all landfills of municipal waste quickly and, as provided for in the Directive, will also want to achieve the objectives of separate collection of waste packaging and waste electronic and electrical equipment within the deadlines set out in the Directive. As you have already mentioned, due to the specific rare population in the Republic of Slovenia, the cost of handling the separate collection of municipal waste fractions in Slovenia is relatively more expensive if compared to the treatment in larger and denser urban areas of the EU. For both segments, for both water pollution reduction and waste, some major projects that have already been prepared will also be reported for a new financial perspective. I'm sure we have good experience here, so we can make it. Before that, I had not been able to answer your question about renewable and alternative sources of energy. I also look forward to a period of new financial perspective on this optimistic segment as a minister, because we have a firm agreement that we will co-finance part of this programme from various EU funds, the so-called Sustainable Energy Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you, Minister. Dr. Marko Pavliha will ask the Minister of Culture Dr. Vask Simoniti a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members! For Minister Simoniti, I have the following question, which is sooner than later, given that we are living in an era of electronic commerce. In March this year, as we know, a new law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives entered into force. And I welcome the proposal's conclusion at the beginning of this introduction to this bill when it says that there will also need to be a substantial increase in attention in the future to the so-called electronic protection of documentary material. As you may recall, we have already adopted an e-commerce and e-signature law in 2000, which represents an important step forward in this direction. The marriage was complemented by ladies of novels. And how quickly has it been shown that electronic commerce opens up a whole set of unscrupulous legal issues, which are not regulated in this law, in particular with regard to archiving, i.e. storage, documents, archives, data in this form, as well as, of course, general handling and access to these data. Let me point out that most of the data in electronic form does, however, have the status of information of a public nature. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister: How do you assess the implementation of the provisions of the present law concerning the storage of material in digital form after about four months? This is a topical issue and we would probably all be interested, including interdisciplinary, other ministers, in how this should be done in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for asking. By adopting the law on the protection of documentary archival material and archives, Slovenia has entered the circle of technologically developed countries of the European Union. The law, as I have been informed, has been well-adopted in the business sector and also by public organisations and bodies. Detailed provisions of the Act on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, i.e. Article 26 of these more detailed provisions does not contain this Act. On the basis of Article 88 of this Law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up a sub-law entitled the Documentary and Archive Material Protection Regulation. This Regulation will also allow for more detailed regulation by the Government of the electronic storage of original documentary material. This Regulation is already in the procedure, i.e. in the government procedure, and is expected to be adopted in a short time. In addition, the Regulation provides for the adoption of one more document, a document of uniform technological requirements, which is the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia Archive, which will contain, in particular, technological and organisational requirements that will only relate to the storage of documentary and archival material in electronic form. By adopting the planned sub-laws, Slovenia will create all the conditions for the effective and efficient electronic storage of documentary and archival materials, thus ensuring adequate protection of Slovenian cultural heritage, which exists in electronic form, and will also allow for an increased range of electronic accessibility, classical documentary and archival materials. In addition, new legislation will allow business and public sector to be more efficient. The assessment on which you ask, the implementation of the provisions relating to storage, i.e. the material originally in digital form, at the moment, i.e. four months after the adoption of the law, is not possible. However, when a regulation on the protection of documentary archival material and uniform technological requirements is adopted, this assessment will be adopted or can be assessed by law. At this point, however, as has been said, the regulation is already in intersectoral coordination and we therefore expect the comments of the relevant state authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, Mr Minister, that in the introduction to the law you also wrote the following sentence: "In order to enforce the law on access to information of a public nature, it was also necessary to partially amend the regime of access to archival material." And, of course, I do well to believe that this will be regulated by a sub-law. But I'm interested in the following. If you look at most of the ministries' websites, you can conclude that the Slovenian state-of-the-art apparently started at the beginning of December 2004. In particular, I was interested in obtaining certain data from the Ministry of Transport months ago, not that I would nostalgically recall memories during my ministry, but because I needed this data. I have found that there is no spirit or hearing about the work of the five transport ministers, only the sixth is of perpetuity, and the five are no longer, and the information is of a public nature. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Minister: How will you continue to enable and ensure that those who are committed to archiving the documentary material of the public authorities will make it possible to access the old content? This is highly beneficial data, as it has been since 1990, and it is completely unacceptable and obvious right now, or from now on, contrary to legislation that we no longer have these old content. You know, it's not about crying, but it's about not being able to even apply the rule "but there wasn't a flood before us, not just behind us". [[...]] Thank you very much in advance not only for the answer, but also for the appropriate action.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I would say this firstly, that the information already in electronic form is still being adopted today, even though this Regulation has not yet been adopted, but it is being stored and there is a practice that the Regulation itself will follow. With regard to the law on access to information of a public nature that you have been talking about, it would be good to hear, in particular, of which things were not accessible, since this law clearly provides for which things must be made available to an individual on the websites, so that it would be best to specify in particular which things were not available and then also make it easier to take action or to require such information to be obtained.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you, Minister. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u37	Dear Mr. Secretary! For Social Democrats, social partnership is one of the fundamental values. On our proposal, the National Assembly has already recommended to the Government in January 1998 that all laws relating to collective agreements or other forms of communication between the social partners explicitly indicate whether an agreement has been reached with the social partners, how coordination has been carried out, which are non-coordinated issues and which previously agreed acts would have been unilaterally violated by decisions. Since the adoption of this Decision, the social partnership has been an integral part of the regulation of Slovenian society. Slovenia has thus far been an economically successful and socially sustainable society also because it has engaged in social dialogue because it has strengthened respect and trust among the social partners and because the authorities have understood the obligation to act in a public interest rather than as arrogant and self-sufficient, which sees only its interests, it expects obedience from others and the content is subject to deadlines. On the basis of an agreement between the social partners, a law on working relations has also been adopted and is compatible with European standards. The social partners insist that this is how they change. And that is why we were surprised when we read in the public, among other things, that in the negotiations on amendments to the labour law you are willing to represent workers on your own. If you didn't make an offensive and arrogant statement, I'd still believe it was a joke. But your actions if you refuse to make a statement, including physical activity against the journalist who wanted your statement. Your attitude towards students under the law on changes and additions to the law on employment and unemployment insurance, some of your statements under the War Cemetery Act and the victims of war violence do not give us the hope that this is just a case. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you, is your statement that in the negotiations on the labour law, I quote, "you will represent the workers yourself," really correct? If so, when will you publicly apologize to the workers and their representatives for their abusive attitude and denial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this matter. The public statement was as follows: "In the extreme case, I am willing to represent the workers myself." This was said on the occasion that the social partners, i.e. the unions, left the negotiations and the public did not see it differently as a lack of responsible behaviour for representing workers in such negotiations. And in these cases, I have said that if the social partners do not represent the workers, I am also prepared to represent their interests. See, for example, they have not now agreed on minimum wages and guaranteed wages under the Social Agreement. As a responsible minister, who doesn't care what happens to workers, I have proposed a law on minimum wage and guaranteed wages, which will also be dealt with in the Economic and Social Council. This is, of course, still responsible, although the social partners have not agreed on an agreement. I can't let the workers drop the standard, so I'm their agent. And that's what I want to be forward. So I acted in favour of the workers, but I don't know if it was in favour of the unions. The unions themselves who left the negotiations do not think it was in favour of the workers. But you know, I don't care that much if it's for the union. I am particularly interested in whether it is for the benefit of the workers. Social dialogue is not an obligation. It's an opportunity, it's an opportunity, and that's how I understand it. Therefore, the presence in the negotiations is not mandatory, but I am glad that all the social partners are in negotiations, that everyone is well prepared and that they are also acting responsibly. In Slovenia we also introduce the practice of responsible conduct in negotiations. In the previous term or earlier, the Labour Relations Act has been harmonised for 9 years. If we want to harmonise and bring about reforms that will have greater prosperity, greater employment, then it is good to do so in a reasonable time. This was also discussed by the president of the country, who stressed the need to speed up reforms. If we harmonise the labour law for nine years, as before, then we will certainly not accelerate in terms of greater prosperity and more jobs. I fully agree with you, too, and this is one of the fundamental values for me, but it is also a value for us to treat it responsibly and to live it, not only by saying it. At the last meeting of the Economic and Social Council, we had nine agenda items. And I must say that the social partners have been very creative, that we are practically at all points, not at all, but that one marriage has remained uncoordinated, so we want to work forward. By the way, let me mention that the agreement in the Economic and Social Council, this legal basis has already been exhausted, so that it is not the right legal basis for the functioning of the Economic and Social Council, but does not concern this government, because it wants the social partners to participate in legislation with or without legal basis in the spirit of European standards. However, it is impossible to expect that all issues will be fully coordinated on all solutions. At times, you will have to find a solution, perhaps even in the National Assembly. And I think in the National Assembly you're trained enough to be able to solve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Secretary admits that he said he'd be willing to represent the workers himself. Secondly, he forgets that his government has also signed with us a few months ago rules on impact and responsibility in implementing reforms, in which it explicitly stated in point 5 that the government will ensure that social partners within the framework of the Economic and Social Council and, where appropriate, interested institutions and NGOs continue to participate equally in the drafting of laws. I'm sure Mr. Minister knows and wouldn't want to let him know that he doesn't know who the social partners are. He probably knows that the social partners on the part of the workers represent unions and that he cannot represent either unions or workers in the responsibility that they have more or less successful representation and self-assessments, when, how and how they participate. Therefore, the statement he made is without a doubt a statement which interferes with the situation of workers and interferes with the position of their representatives. Mr Minister has no right, not even with cynical smiles and cynical content, to talk about the fact that unions in the social partnership system are not employees' representatives and must respect them. No one, Mr Minister, has said so, and I have quoted the conclusion that everything must be harmonised, that any deadlines are set, but when it comes to openness and willingness to communicate, a substantive event can also be achieved, but when it comes to arrogant conduct, do not expect that there will be nothing but good intentions on the other hand. So again, I expect you to say that your statement was not appropriate for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u43	To avoid misunderstandings, I will read what has also been written in the media: "At the very least, I am willing to represent the workers myself." And I can tell you that workers in some cases also represent holy workers and this is not a heretical answer. Even in some cases, of course, but we know in what cases. And this statement was made in cases where they left the negotiations, this is their free decision. We are working on NGOs, so we also have all the laws published on the website, and they can also make comments, and some associations are also invited if they make this wish. And of course then we also coordinate, including the partnership for development. Both social protection and employment laws, you have been invited as other parties operating and we have taken some of your proposals into account. In this case, I believe that I have not intervened, and many others are in this society, which also acts in the interests of workers, informally but in fact. And I wouldn't have ruled them out. Of course, the social partners, the workers of their relationship, and in this context also have their legitimate rights and legitimate representation, and I have not, and the government has never disputed in the future. That is why I believe that these discussions are not well-intentioned, especially in order to achieve the responsible conduct of all and to participate in these negotiations; I want them to be together, to have proposals and to take them into account, of course, we have a multi-party participation. If I said that we would only respect their interests, I would not act responsibly and would not speak the truth. We're trying to find a path that will be consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Potts, you have a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would just like the other fellow Members and Members to assess what social partnership means and what the response of Minister Drobnič means, because some of the colleagues and colleagues who speak from the bench care or know the text published by the press. Let me say that I quoted a statement from the STA which states: "Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Janez Drobnič is in negotiations on amendments to the labour law" - it is said that this is a specific law, the negotiation of the labour law - "ready to represent workers alone. Smallpox believes that it would be in the best interests of these workers if the social partners were to work towards completing the coordination as soon as possible and to participate actively in the search for the best solutions. If the employees' representatives - probably Mr Drobnic knows who they are - "they would not want to participate in this," which there is no talk at all, at least such statements I have not heard - "so he will represent the workers himself, today they are messages from the Ministry." I am sorry that Mr Drobnic is not ready and does not want to say that he was talking about being prepared in the negotiations in the social dialogue system instead of the unions to represent the workers themselves, which is a total misunderstanding of the role played by the Minister and total arrogance. I expected at least some attempt to explain this issue. The one who has been given is so utterly awkward and at the same time defends his position that he can work as a minister to the extent that he really wants to, Mr President, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to hold a public hearing on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Miran Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the Member of Parliament, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. In view of the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I ask Mrs Pozsonec whether she will still ask the question. If so, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I will ask the question, because Mr Minister will read it, I hope. I ask: Why did the Republic of Slovenia allow Croatia to build a bridge on Mura near Hotiz, where there is not yet a precise border? Slovenia reacted very poorly before and during construction, if at all. The construction of this bridge greatly increased the flood threat in the municipality of Lendava. And no matter where the border runs, the bridge will be there, depending on the amount of concrete to the memorial, and we will be in constant danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Possonchev. Do you want an oral answer or a written one? If he does, then it will only be at the next meeting, that is at the end of September. Good. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Ms Darja Lovtizar Bebler will ask the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! On 14 December 2005, the United Nations Convention against Corruption, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations at the end of October 2003, entered into force. So far, 140 countries have signed the Convention and 59 have ratified it. It was signed by all European countries, including the countries of the former Yugoslavia. But there is no Slovenia among the signatories. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, when does the Republic of Slovenia intend to sign and ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption, so when will you prepare the Convention for ratification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and also thank you for the question, Madam Member. Let me briefly answer: I suppose this year already. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice are aware of the importance of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The Convention is undoubtedly an important legal instrument aimed at preventing corruption. It means both awareness of the seriousness of the problem at international level, as well as a series of standards, criteria, measures and rules that will strengthen countries' rules aimed at persecuting corruption. The text of the Convention reflects the efforts of countries to establish preventive measures to prevent corruption, measures to recover property arising from corruption, international cooperation and criminalisation of corruption. In this regard, I can say that the Ministry of Justice has already drafted a proposal this year to amend the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions, which was adopted in the National Assembly earlier this February and which redefines the competence of a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime, which acts as a special organisational unit at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. With the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act, the group is also responsible for criminal offences in the area of corruption and other criminal offences, whose detection and prosecution require special organisation and competence. This amendment is in accordance with Article 36 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which requires that countries, in accordance with their legal order, ensure the existence of a specialised body for the prosecution of corruption. We expect the already established new special group within the framework of the Prosecutor's Office to contribute significantly to the detection and actual prosecution of corruption. Let me also answer your question once again that the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with Article 75 of the Law on Foreign Affairs, is also preparing a proposal to initiate the ratification process, as this is a key one and a reasoned draft act with all the necessary documentation. The verification commission, composed, inter alia, of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, has already carried out a verification of the translation of the Convention into Slovenian - difficult, difficult task. In doing so, the Ministry of Justice shall prepare everything necessary in order to be able to initiate the ratification procedure, including any reservations and interpretative declarations to the Treaty, provisions on the provision of financial resources for the implementation of the Treaty, orders on the harmonisation of internal rules with the International Treaty and instructions to the competent authorities regarding the implementation of the International Treaty. Once the Ministry of Justice has collected all the documentation, it will propose that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs initiate the procedure for initiating the ratification procedure, the proposal will then be examined by the Government and sent to the National Assembly for ratification.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also given approximately this response on 14 December 2005 as an explanation for the comment in the Journal of Work. The 2005 Joint Report on the Work of the Public Prosecutors, which I would also like to stress, shows that in 2005, only four people were accused of corruption, and this is because of little corruption. The State Prosecutor’s Office also argues that these data show that even in 2005 corruption crimes were not dealt with which detection and prosecution would result from the planned and organised activities of the competent authorities, and that the data described certainly do not reflect the actual social situation in this area, which we can explain to ourselves that this situation is even worse. This feeling is also reflected in the public, as public polls show that 43% of all respondents believe that the situation of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is worse two years after the elections than it was before the elections. That the situation is better for me than 10% of the respondents. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, why, in these facts and facts, that the convention has already been translated, according to my data, and the editorial has been done for several months, are you still waiting and delaying with your signature? Let me also recall that the first conference of the Member States of this Convention will be held in Jordan in December 2006 and that, with the slow accession to the Convention, the conference can happen without us. So, without Slovenia, which has been a model so far in the fight against corruption. Of course, there is no longer an example since we changed the law that eliminates such an independent commission or body as this Convention requires. Is that why you are delaying your signature and ratification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you, too, for this additional question. Let me say this very briefly. At the outset, you yourself said that the number of those who signed the Convention was almost half the size of those who ratified the Convention. Ratification is therefore key. So far it has been ratified by 59 countries and signed by 117. We do not want to approach the document until it is firmly prepared. We're preparing him, he'll be ready, and when he is, we'll send him for ratification. But we don't want to make an impression on the outside that we're signing something that isn't already in front of you for ratification. We want to move from words to actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr Victory Jelinčič, because the Minister for Finance is not here, I ask whether you want to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. As it appears, in the matter of the Mutual Slovenian National Party, the only party was right. The Court annulled the decision requiring the Insurance Supervisory Agency to notify 1.1 million mutual insurers needlessly. That's what you call a million and 100,000. This account closure notice was sent because of an illegal decision by the Insurance Supervisory Agency and cost the insurers more than 100 million tolars. Although the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency was asked not to do so by a decision amounting to 100 million costs. So he consciously caused 100 million tolls of damage, and I'm wondering who's going to make it right. I do not agree with the fact that the mistakes of well-paid civil servants would be paid by insurers and other taxpayers. In short, I ask once again: Who will cover the costs incurred by the Insurance Supervisory Agency to the insurers of the Mutual with an illegal order? I also ask Mr. Bajuk: Is it true that on 27.12.2005 he personally called Mr. Goriška, Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, and ordered him to take Mr. Jaklic out of the Mutual? On the basis of this call, two days later, an illegal decision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency was taken today. In view of the fact that the Minister has publicly stated that he is behind all the Agency's actions, I wonder if he will resign if the European Commission finds that he has restricted competition in the field of insurance through his intervention. Indeed, Mr Minister has created unfair competition on the market in all the right ways and has provided State support to the state-owned Triglav insurance company, whose Chairman of the Supervisory Board is an important member of the New Slovenia Party. I would be happy to have the Minister's phone records show that this call to the Insurance Supervisory Agency has not been made, but my opinion confirms the fact that on 29.6.2006 the State or the Government issued a regulation on how to provide payment of legal aid to public servants, which means that Mr Gorišek will be guaranteed public aid or public legal defence by providing all of our state cash registers or, in other words, all of us taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I hope you will receive the Minister's reply as soon as possible. Mr Aleš Gulič will ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Podobnik, as Minister of Environment and Space, I ask you: Are you, as Minister responsible for the space, aware of the intention to place on Kredarica the memorial mark of Aloyzi Stepinc, a disputed person from World War II, who was then the Archbishop of Zagreb? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much, honourable Member Gulič, perhaps you could answer relatively briefly in this sense, because your question was short. So, as Minister of Environment and Space, I have not been informed or our ministry has received any official role in this regard, nor has it been a question or to be informed, as Minister or as Minister, of this matter. When we received your question, however, we prepared an answer to what would be the formal procedure if someone decided to make a memorial mark. Since our question does not specify exactly what kind of mark or location it is, then this answer may be a little wider, but let us summarize. In the light of the rules in force, interventions to the premises require a building permit, except for those works or for the establishment of so-called simple facilities. This is the subject of the building law and certain regulations. Simple objects that can be built even without a building permit also include memory markings and then determine what dimensions apply to a statue, a chapel, or a memorial plate. In order to build the commemorative features that meet these requirements, the investor must then obtain the location information before building at the competent municipal administrative authority. In the light of the rules in force, however, the investor must, irrespective of whether, in this case, a building permit is not required, and must obtain the consent of the competent authorities or certain services, if such land lies in an area which is further protected by specific regulations and is together - we know that the Kredarica lies in the central area of the Triglav National Park and this means that the investor should, given that the Kredarica lies within the central area of the Triglav National Park, comply with the applicable provisions of the TNP Act. It is true, however, that the law in force does not prohibit the establishment of memorial markings as such. I don't know if you're satisfied with my question, because you asked me only formally, if I was officially aware of the matter, I'm answering you that I wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u62	Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Gulic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u63	I didn't ask if you were officially familiar with it, but only if you were familiar with it is if you knew that intention. This was published in the media. I wonder, ‘ What will your position be if you get a request about this? In view of the fact that it is a person who actively cooperated with the invader during World War II and supported the Ustasha regime and has many sins over him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. So, as we said today, when we were preparing the answer to your question, we tracked down one entry in Dnevnik on 6.7. entitled "The Planns are against the memorial plates in the mountains. What would you say about the tablet of Cardinal Aloys Slepić, which they will place on Kredarica on August 5th, thinks of Jakob Aljaž?" I can only quote from this entry in the Journal the following answer that is written: On the question of why the plaque on the Kredarica and not at the chapel in the Vrat Valley, the long priest France Urbanija answers, quote: "The memorial plate to Cardinal Stepinac is already waiting in the parish yard in the Valley and will decorate the three-headed chapel. The action is led by the Frenchman Dr. Marko Prpa." And then he talks about what this record should be about. If this procedure is affected in any way by existing legislation, we will be acting in full compliance with the legislation in force at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you. Just for the sake of the magnetogram, allow me to warn you. Mr Aleš Gulič was sitting in Mr Miran Jerič's seat, which is why this may appear in the magnetogram. So much so there won't be any misunderstandings about the magnetogram. Mr Dusan Kumer will raise a question of the matter before the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Virant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! I think we have a common view that saving is an endless cashier. Therefore, I must say first of all that I support any effort to reduce the costs and unnecessary spending of the country's tax money in all areas, including the elimination of privileges, if the proposer knows what a privilege it is. In recent days, it is again possible for the public and the media to see that it is a serious intention of the government to regulate certain rights, privileges, public function holders to the general economic situation of the country in order to demonstrate in general its responsible attitude towards the budget and tax money by saving in the public administration. In view of the fact that I have pointed out several times over the past year, with questions from Members of Parliament, the various types of waste and cost-effectiveness of the state authorities, Minister Gregor Virant, as the holder of the abolition of these privileges and the unnecessary use of budgetary money, I ask: First time. What did he, the Ministry and the government in general do to limit the additional earnings of officials by membership in supervisory councils, economic and institutional bodies? What has the government done to limit the excessive spending of budget money on labour contracts and copyright contracts for the purposes of worlds and professional assistance mainly to government departments? Third. In view of the fact that a more precise use of the service car is also envisaged for officials, I would like to know: How much were the maintenance costs of the car park for the needs of the state authorities in 2005 and the first half of this year? How much were the costs of fuel consumption during the same period? And: Were any infringements or infringements of the Regulation on the use of service cars recorded for personal use during the same period? I believe that this analysis was a prerequisite for proposing measures. And last but not least, as one of the highlights of this: Has any of the officials of last year or this year, in the first half, returned any amount, for example, for a stay abroad, to the state budget if, of course, the account exceeded the limit set by the government regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Kumer. With regard to meetings for membership in various public administrations and supervisory bodies, public agencies, public funds, public undertakings and economic countries, you have indeed raised questions in most state-owned countries, and you have also received the answer that this regulation, this regulation, which will address this issue, is being drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. That's been said many times. According to my information, this regulation is already ready, but there is a division of work in the government and what belongs to Minister Bajuk's domain, I cannot comment. The regulation is being prepared at the Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, the text already exists, but it will not be proposed by the Ministry of Public Administration. With regard to these meetings, I must stress in particular that these meetings do not pay the budget, but rather public agencies, funds, public institutions and businesses themselves, so it is not the costs of the state budget and does not hold that the meetings are burdening the budget. I also think that it is more rational, in terms of the budget, if, for example, a public servant participating in such a body is paid out of the funds of the public fund, the public institution, the public agency, because it is more rational than if the costs of this part were passed on to the budget and paid as an additional burden or an increased amount of work, which is often the case. Moreover, I do not think that there can be any profit here, because it is low amounts, and the current version of the regulation, as far as I have seen it, is talking about 13,000 to 35,000 gross per meeting, and in the case of public institutions, public agencies and these meetings is five, six per year. If we multiply this, you will see that this is not a problematic amount, and in any case this would be paid even if they were members of the outside, if they were not public servants. Restrictions already exist for the supervisory boards of companies and the funds, according to the 2002 Government's conclusions. This limit is a maximum of 57 thousand 140 dollars gross to a meeting for a member of the Supervisory Board, and the legal limit is a maximum of three worlds, as you know. Here, however, it would be worth considering that for public servants, of course, we should further limit this to, say, a maximum of one supervisory council. And also here, if we multiply it, we add it up, we calculate it, we figure out that today this amount can theoretically be around 120,000 gross, monthly even in three control councils. Where there is a personal responsibility of a member of the Supervisory Board with his own property. When we talk about officials - it's also good to know - it's best to start at the top. I must say that they are among ministers, I have gathered these data today, three of them receiving meetings for the presidency or membership in one supervisory council, and one in two. It's all being tantamount to four ministers. Alone, for example, I don't receive any meetings for any governing body, supervisory board or anything like that. Also, the minister, who is in two supervisory councils, receives a monthly allowance below 100,000 gross for this, and this is also the highest income from all ministers. Such benefits are limited to four and none of them are paid from the budget. So it's not any problem. I must also stress this, of these five supervisory boards, three times one and two, four of which are ministers of the statutory boards or the presidents of the supervisory boards, according to the legislation adopted in previous mandates such as the environmental development fund, the housing fund, the enterprise fund and the fund for regional development and the preservation of the specificities of the Slovenian countryside. There's no big deal in this. After the end of the term of office, however, what you asked in the introduction is a different story. This is about the funds paid out of the budget, amounting to 600 million in the eligible year and providing one year of receiving full pay at a time when someone does not work. And there is also the public, and the media in particular have pointed out many abuses. Among the beneficiaries of these refunds were persons who, for example, engaged in some part-time work, were actively involved in various projects or even fulfilled the full conditions for retirement and received such compensation. That is how I think we will have to address this area, but of course I will address this issue in all the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thanks for the answer. I believe that this austerity strategy, which you are the bearer of, has one major drawback. In fact, all those millions you're talking about being saved are put in a bag of government that doesn't have a bottom. Therefore, all the savings will again disappear, in my personal opinion, with unnecessary consumption and consumption. And I'm very specific about stopping by yours when you're talking about control councils. I hope that when this regulation or this decree or reference is adopted by the government, it will not pass the mandate of those supervisors who are now four years old. But we're very specific. Public officials who are members of institutions or funds, I am not talking about companies, of course they do not have 15 to 35, but they are sitting down or flattening 67,000, 41,000 - I am speaking for ministers, so that the public will also be more clear. However, when there are officials in companies, I will give an example of railways where the President of the Supervisory Board, who is a state official, the Secretary of State, has a maximum of 141,000 SIT flattens or boards for the Supervisory Board - we ourselves know what the problems are. It doesn't end here! This same Secretary of State is still in two supervisory councils, where he holds 75,000 and 3rd 96,000 meetings. I'm talking about this because you're talking about savings in salaries - tralalala - and I'm not going to talk about a third matter that you haven't talked about at all, these are labor and copyright contracts, where, say, individual ministries have 300, 600 million for these contracts, which means 100, 150 jobs, and you're talking about saving in the government! That's why you partially answered me, and I must say I'm not satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I have told you about the restrictions on meetings for membership in the supervisory boards of public companies and other companies owned by the majority state. If you have information that someone exceeds these limits, you must report it and we will take appropriate action. I think there are no such excesses and there are no violations from this point of view. That's one thing. And a second time. Once again, none of this is paid out of the state budget, I suppose that is clear. With regard to external counseling, I did not have enough time to answer that question, and Minister Bajuk has already answered that question. In principle, I can say that State law sometimes has to be cut off after external counseling, because this is quite rational. This is a top-notch specialized knowledge that needs only occasionally and it would be irrational to hire people for these jobs, or it would not be possible at all, because the state administration cannot pay them such a salary to get such people to work in the administration. That is why sometimes it interferes with counseling, such as top experts, top experts in certain areas, sometimes also, for external review of some law. However, I must say that your question is very general and that it is very difficult to answer it in this way. In fact, each minister has to judge how much such counseling is to be done, and he has to act economically. It is difficult to answer a flat-rate observation, and it would be easier to talk about specific cases. It is true, however, that it would be more difficult for you to ask such a question because in a particular case we should deepen. If you have a concrete case of irrational spending on external counseling, I suggest that you show and ask the Minister who signed the contract for this purpose. With regard to my ministry, the Ministry of Public Administration, I invite you to come forward at any time, all the documentation is public, you can look at everything, and if you find any case of irrational spending, I will accept the criticism and I will try to correct it. Otherwise, I'll give you information for the Department of Public Administration. In 2005 - 6 such contracts, the value of 10 million 69 thousand dollars, of which realised, so paid, only one million 645 thousand a year. Why such a difference - because I demand that the work is also done in a complete and correct manner. In 2006 - six contracts totalling a million 620 thousand tolars, paid 658 thousand tolars. I think the amounts tell you everything. None of the operators shall be an official or public servant, nor shall any of the public servants be employed as subcontractors to any of these contractual partners with which the Ministry of Public Administration is involved. And as for the fleet, there's only one sentence. Given that we carry out a general public order for all government authorities, according to our data, we have data on how many cars are purchased each year, the percentage of renewal is less than 7% per year, which means [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kumer, do you have a suggestion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u75	I have a proposal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that Dr Virant's response be discussed by the National Assembly. From a very specific point of view - to move on to what has challenged me to say, but specifically to budgetary resources, although the ones I spoke about before are, of course, institutions because they are financed from the budget, including budgetary resources. Even though I'm very specific. Ministry of Economy - 353 million for contracts, works and copyright contracts, 51 contracts, you play in the government. Ministry of the Environment - 640 million, 212 contracts. I'm talking about quantity, I'm not going to go into every contract individually, I'm talking about quantity, so many contracts with employees, and you keep saying that you have to reduce employees in the state administration. I ask you, why does it take so much external counseling and this contractual work? Second. Around business trips. I have already mentioned abroad that three billion for official travel abroad, and some high-ranking officials are spending more than a government regulation, a government regulation, so I asked if anyone has returned to the state budget which should be returned after this regulation. You didn't give me an answer, and I don't think he came back either. In short, I propose this public debate in this National Assembly because I still do not think it is wasted where it could be saved and that it is primarily saved where it should not be spent. Last time, even when we were abroad last week, he convinced me that even in the diplomatic service of our exposed diplomats, he was saving himself in the wrong places. Therefore, once again, I propose that this be decided by the National Assembly and that we hold a broader debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Dusan Kumr to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš will ask the Minister for Higher Education science and technology, Dr Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your word. The complications surrounding the introduction of the Bologna system of education or better-spoken experiments with Slovenian students are actually continuing. You are a good or good culprit, Mr. Minister, as the responsible person for the area that covers the population. Under the promised Higher Education Act, which is not acceptable in the intended form to universities or students, employers also have reasonable comments and concerns. Last but not least, it is spoken of in the state council by a veto to the law. Let me mention once again the so-called government regulation of the classification system of education. According to your proposal for a law reclassifying graduates of old and new study programmes, graduates of high-level vocational schools are placed in the first bologna level. This means that these graduates of higher vocational schools will in fact be placed at the sixth level or sixth level, as you call the new level, 6/2, after the new law has been enacted and, in particular, with the entry into force of the said government regulation. The fact is, these students are now ranked in the 7th grade, where their studies are comparable to university graduates' studies. In fact, graduates of high-level vocational schools will be demolished. They will already be deprived of their degree of education. Unless, of course, you change the concept of the law and firstly, you will not change the government regulation itself, which, by the way, was written before the law. The classification until the government regulation was based on a social agreement on the uniform basis for classification of professions and vocational education. It was covered in all other relevant acts, if you want systematisation. Disruption of this regime may mean that graduates of higher vocational schools will therefore also be included in the sixth tariff class on a basic basis, which means lower wages and may even lead to a change in employment contracts, as these workers will suddenly no longer meet the tendering conditions. This is contrary not only to the principles of the so-called Bologna Declaration or Bologna, which makes it clear that no one should be deprived of their education. Here we are talking about the levels of education acquired, but also about the Slovenian Constitution in the work which speaks about the principle of trust in law or legal security. Basically, I ask you, Minister, why do you want to move graduates from grade seven to level six if you want to? And of course: What is or will be the legal certainty mentioned by the country of cheated students?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Member. I've explained this a number of times, and I think we need to do it again. The Regulation establishing and applying the classification system of education and training has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and not on a proposal from our Ministry. The Statistical Office, i.e. the SURS, has imposed on it the adoption of this Decision or of this Regulation Article 31. Therefore, under Article 31 of the Statistics Act, the SURS is obliged to do so. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and the experts of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the implementation of this Regulation. So much for that. Another time. It is not a matter of amending the regulation, please, it is not a matter of amending the regulation, it is the first Slovenian regulation on the classification of the system of education and training. So it's the first and only. As can be seen from the published materials, the need for classification has been marked in the 1990s, when an agreement has been reached, not by law, regulation, but an agreement that, despite not being accepted into our marriage system, some have applied it, which has been applied by many different regulations and regulations. However, particular emphasis should be placed on the fact that this agreement has never included a high level of professional education because it was not available at the time. And the first programmes of higher vocational education were not created until 1994, 1995 on the basis of the 1993 law; it is said that in that regulation, which was created 15 years earlier, this was not the case either. And because this is the first regulation, I never, ever repeat, this has never been officially established in Slovenia. All other laws which were applicable only to a specific profile, to certain tariff classes, to certain profiles, but not to the general meaning of the law. Since this felt that this regulation was not available, in 2002 and earlier, various groups were dealing with this problem and were working on it. At the outset, however, a 10-stage scale was set up as a work material and it was only in 2005 that the European Community gave two documents, a framework of qualifications and a framework of qualifications for the European Higher Education Area, which envisaged an eight-stage scale. In view of this, this group decided on an eight-stage scale. And in this eight-stage scale, the sixth level is for the first Bologna level, for the second Bologna level the seventh level and for the third Bologna level. And there is no way that the programs, which are essentially the first rate of Bologna, would go to the seventh level. There's no way. Why not? In addition, it is necessary to take into account the conditions for entry, duration of studies, number of credit points, content of programmes, transitibility and current professional addresses. In view of this, the typical duration of the old higher education programmes is three years. The assessment is approximately because there was no ECT in the old programs - old programs, please kindly, have never been evaluated with ECT, so the estimates are approximate. There are between 180 and 240 credit points, which corresponds to the first bologna rate. The typical option was to continue on university programmes, which also includes them at the sixth level, if the continuation is at the seventh level. Then the former titles of the high professional were graduated and that and the higher addresses of university education were university and that. There's a difference. But if we look at university programs, and it's also different because they were at seven, so they were comparable to another Bologna level, they have about the same number of credit points from 270 to 300, they have [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The competences are about the same and, especially important, the typical possibility of continuing the study, since, secondly, after university studies, the possibility of continuing the doctorate was, as was the case with the second Bologna degree. These were the reasons that led the statistical office and the group that dealt with this for making this regulation [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister, talk to the statistical office about those topics that fall within the framework of your department! Please, Minister! Last but not least, you will be signed under a reform called Bologna Reform - and don't make fun of it! Deceived, Minister, there will be 50,000 students. You've been explaining the high programme, I've been talking about the high professional program, that's the difference; I hope you know the difference. And you didn't answer my basic question, Minister: Why is the seventh degree officially recognised today for high-level graduates? Under the new regulation, the sixth step 6/2 is recognised by classification. I ask again, Minister, why? I mentioned about 50,000 students will be cheated, if you want, taken away from them the seventh level, recognised the seventh level, which today can be employed in those jobs where the seventh level of education is required. 50,000 people. Don't you think that, Minister, is a large enough number that's basically worth considering? And last but not least, I'm going to say, wrong decisions, whether it's for the Bureau of Statistics or for your Ministry? I still claim that this is the responsibility of your ministry or the government that approved the regulation. This is an obvious degradation of people, a respected minister, as well as education in our country. And allow me another information and question. Students signing a petition on the Internet this afternoon was number 15,210 signatories to a petition against such behaviour, against this degradation. Again, Minister, what are you going to do? In particular, will you correct the regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system for education and training?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. First, for a little while, about the students. If you'd taken into account the student's wishes, I'd put an extra 130,000 on stage six. So much for student demands. Please kindly, the students at all the negotiations demanded that everyone, including university graduates, be placed in the sixth grade. Then there'd be almost 200,000 of them. So much for student demands. As for the seventh stage, never, please, once again, has ever been a higher vocational education, never officially placed on the seventh level. Never since this is the first regulation, it has never been. Everything that has been, I have here a law in force on public servants, which applies to public servants, or I may stress, is applicable to public servants and not to the general public. On this scale we also have the ninth degree, where there is a doctorate and it's simple here, as it's called, you can be reassigned. However, given the European eight-level scale, it is clear that the three levels of tertiary education that are defined are clear and loud: the first Bologna level to the sixth, the second Bologna level to the seventh and third Bologna levels to the eighth. There is no possibility that higher education will go to the level of the second Bologna level.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you. Do you have a suggestion, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I will also make a proposal to hold a broader debate on this answer in the National Assembly because you do not want the Minister again or explain certain facts in your own way. The seventh level is officially recognised in this country as graduates of higher education. On the basis of the seventh stage, I stress, but if you want, I am the case because I was able to run and have been employed in the public sector as an adviser because I had the seventh stage of education recognised as a high professional education. Because certain colleges at the time were not recognized as colleges because they lacked so many and so many, I don't know, I think they're extraordinary professors. If he's holding what you're saying, then the minister's cheating on the university, they're deceiving the students! And I mentioned that 50,000 students are going to be cheated by this government regulation. They will be deprived of the seventh degree of education today, Minister! Does this mean that they will have to leave the work they have today because they no longer meet the conditions? Does this mean that they will be paid for a certain part of their salary because they no longer meet the conditions? In short, there are certain facts and I mentioned 15 000 and several other signatories to the petition, and it would also make sense for them to have a broader discussion, and not only are these present or present students, but they are also former students among them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you. On the proposal of Mrs Zgajner Tavš to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to her question of the mission, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr. Joseph Bajc, even though the Minister of the Interior is absent, do you want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I want to ask an oral question. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the introduction of my question, let me point out that we are pleased in the Slovenian People's Party that our amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace has been adopted, which provides for the prohibition of detention of persons under 16 years of age, between 24 and 5 hours in restaurants and at events where alcoholic beverages are brewed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that this is only part of the mosaic and the fight against excessive consumption of alcohol among young people. Similarly, we are confirmed by surveys published by some media last week. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been pointing out the issue of the protection of minors for a long time, in particular with regard to the abuse of the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors. We have also repeatedly pointed out that legislation in Slovenia is good in this area and, in our view, is also comparable to other countries. The amendment of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace has further improved this area and the problem remains and arises in the area of monitoring the implementation of legislation. Cross-cutting coordination and control measures are essential to ensure that legislation is effective in this area. Unfortunately, the practice we have so far has not proved to be the best. Let me mention just a recent event in Ljubljana, where there was no alcoholic drink, but many young people, certainly under 15 years of age, showed obvious signs of ingenuity. And these young people, of course, bought alcohol somewhere. Who sold it, and when did he sell it, and why? The Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption is clear in this area. Apparently, this is again a problem in overseeing the implementation of the legislation, so I ask you, Mr. Minister, are you planning inter-departmental coordination and measures to prevent activities and increase activities in the field of the protection of minors from buying and drinking alcoholic beverages? The legislation lays down major limitations and the obligations of the authorities responsible for supervision are increasing, and the human resources and financial capacity of the responsible institutions have remained at the same level as before. So where do you see the solution to these problems? I expect an oral response at the first meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you. You will receive an oral response at your first next meeting. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Mr Minister, I ask you a question: What will you do about the problems caused by your criteria for admission to secondary school this year, namely for the school year 2006-2007? And: Can we hope that you will finally listen to the professions, parents, and children who remind you that this year’s registration criteria are poor and do not justify their purpose? I refer this question to you because of the fact that I have been approached by many parents who first expressed their disagreement with regard to this year's criteria and, above all, expressed their concern about the accuracy and understanding of the criteria for admission to secondary school. It turns out that these criteria have been completely flawed and have brought confusion, uncertainty and fear into the school system, because both theorists and practitioners agree that the selection process for enrolment in the school year 2006-2007 has not been as stressful for as long as this year, which is contrary to your pre-election promises and also to your performance, when you applied for the post of Minister of Education and Sport, to make sure that the school becomes as stressful as possible, both for students, students, for parents and that the school will be as kind as possible. Many experts have repeatedly and persistently warned about the problems caused by the lack of respect for the results of national knowledge tests, and this has also been the case in the decision-making process in the professional world. Despite the warnings of experts, you have remained deaf to all warnings and with stubborn insistence on your children’s criteria and thus have brought your parents into a situation in which even the A's could not be enrolled in the desired high school. Mr. Minister, you've said many times that you want to upgrade the school system. Of course, the actions and consequences of your actions indicate that it is not about upgrading, but it is about decomposing the school system. Many times it was also possible to hear that this was not an extreme intervention in the school system. I wonder whether it is not just before entering the ninth grade or before entering the ninth grade of a nine-year-old, when the criteria and criteria for entry into secondary school appear, whether this is a very extreme intervention in the behaviour of parents and students who are then placed in a very short time frame, when they have to meet the conditions, the criteria for admission to secondary school, which can be very different. For this year’s school year, schools were placed in a situation where they had to put additional criteria on their noses, on the basis of which many weaknesses were also evident.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you, too, for the question. The first thing about decommissioning. This thesis of Mr Gabra, which you are persistently repeating, has been going on for at least half a year and at every opportunity, repeat it. But the fact that we have a finally stable pay system in school, that there are no major gaps, that the system is liquid, that the system works normally, that we have even a pyramid of professional bodies that normally operate on all levels of the school system, confirms the fact that it is not a decomposition, but to stabilize the system that was really pretty broken down in front of me. Let me just remind you of a 20 billion-dollar loser. That's how he was guided and managed by your client. Now, let me answer some more specific questions to leave my eyewitnesses aside. This year, 25,685 places of entry were awarded and on 6 June, 22,175 candidates and candidates were enrolled in secondary school. This means that we have awarded more than 3,500 seats than were candidates and candidates. It is clear, however, that in some areas, especially in Ljubljana, for example, where we know some of the elite high schools, that all children could not be enrolled in one and the same high school. We have enabled 92% of students and students to be enrolled for the first time in the desired program and in the desired school, while others had to join the same program, but at the second school. We just don't have this capacity to give everyone 100% and realize the first wish, and that's not a tragedy, as some people say today, some players wrote, "My son couldn't join the desired school, it's a tragedy, so I want the resignation of the Minister of Education." Putting your experiences ahead of time and drawing some political sequences out of them, I find the conclusions somewhat inappropriate. The fact is that it will always be so that some criteria are set and that some do not come through this sieve, better success, worse do not come and always will be so and always will be. As long as we have limited quantities of goods - whatever - we must behave rationally, rationally and manage them. And in the school system, that also means the allocation of all these cities and students. Only the best can be enrolled in the desired school, which is under the greatest pressure. And even this year, everyone was able to subscribe to these programs that they wanted, only some schools could. It was simple and always so, even in previous years, even when your colleague was Minister, and at that time you were not at all dismay, Mr Germić. No criteria are optimal. Especially if his child is hurt, the parent will be angry and he will say "right these criteria he had to set up this minister who doesn't like me and my child," but he always does. We set some criteria last year, not us, the office, the principals of those schools that have limited entry, they made them themselves. Criticism should primarily fly to those who have prepared it. This year we have found that we should also prepare new criteria, more permanent, and we will prepare and prepare these days, and already a number of professional people are involved in the preparation. You don't think, Mr. Germich, that I'll make it myself. We are trying to prepare optimal criteria, in a way including external knowledge checks, although this is a "shagger" of the publishing lobby, but we will try to find some compromise, but the criteria will always be. The function of the criteria is to determine the differentiation at the lower limit when students are classified to find them, the criteria make a difference, inequalities, differences and determine better than some of the best and good ones and will always be so. If the son of one of the elites in Slovenia - and these were large, there was a lot of pressure on the school system - but he wouldn't be included in the desired school, God help him, it's just that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u92	Minister, thank you very much. Mr. Germich, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Of course, Minister, I quote only Mrs Jane Kostic's statement from your ministry, which says that you are aware that the criteria this year have not been perfect, and that is why, in accordance with the views adopted by the Council of Experts for General Association, we will, in all likelihood, prepare some revised criteria for next year. What's the problem? The problem is that last July you changed these rules, and today it is very unfair to say that schools that were actually able to complement in the framework of the rules, what we are talking about today, are very unfair, given that we know that in July these changes are very difficult because the beginning of the school year in September and the school leadership and teachers are already on vacation. You're talking about professional bodies operating normally. I ask you why, today, on 10 July, the General Association Expert Council did not define the criteria for entry into the school year for 2007/2008. There are many combinations in the public and, of course, there is a fear of lack of transparency and there are also indications that we do not provide these criteria of equal opportunity for all students. How can a school request and recognise a music school, even though we know that admission to a music school is linked to very different elements? There are a lot of open questions here, too, about ahead of time, so this is the first step forward. We are today on 10 July and, Mr Minister, you have not answered clearly how the General Education Council works, which will again prescribe the conditions that can be upgraded for the next entry into the school year, and the students who will already enter the first day of this class on 1 September, this year will not in fact be known by them, nor by parents who will be those additional conditions that will enable them to enter those schools that they want.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. The expert board has been preparing criteria for several years, you know that, and for several years some members of the professional council have not been able to prepare such criteria. I believe that these same members will not do so in the future for some other reason, not just professional reasons. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia will prepare them for education and we will accept them this month. Although in theory we could not miss anything in the fall, we would not miss anything if we accepted them in the autumn, but we would have done so before. However, once again, this is a several-year battle, and in particular, since I am the Minister, whether the experts or the results on external checks should be an integral part of the criterion or not, that is all that is and that is all the story. Of course, publishers would like the exteriors to be an integral part, because then parents would buy work links with job solutions for each item, and these are large and, of course, promise themselves some huge "business". We had a plan years ago that NPZs would not play a selective function, but just as a normal high school graduation. By doing so, we greatly burdened the parents and the disciples. It does not seem fair to me to set up a small prom that is worse - a larger function under the former law prepared by your coalition at the time - as a prom, if someone did not make an NPZ at the end of primary school, would not have completed a primary school, this was written in your law and of course we changed this and also a new concept of NPZ does not foresee, has no selection function or should not have basically. In the perspective, perhaps we will now include it in part if the student agrees that this criterion as part of the externality is included, we will see what the expert bodies will say. But in perspective, in a few years, we'll have to turn the philosophy around. Let the universities work to get a degree of personnel, to determine who their students should be, and not the prom points at the secondary level, and we will lead the same logic when we move from primary to high school. It's just a rational system. Not that we prejudge and determine the value of a student and a student who should be able to enroll in a further study or school or not. We need to reverse logic, that's all that's rational. But at this point we are not able to do this, so we will introduce new criteria, but these criteria will be some compromise, but they will certainly be temporary, but it will take at least three years, so I wish it, because it would include the success of the last triad.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Chairman. On the basis of business options, I propose that we vote on the Minister's response to my question. Why? Let me read some statistics myself. This year we have a much weaker generation, the good 22 000 who wanted to continue their education in secondary education. That's almost a thousand less than in the year before. But we will still have a significantly higher number of students who had to go through the sieve this year, i.e. selective sieve, because last year only a good quarter of all candidates wanted to be enrolled at schools with a limited enrolment rate, i.e. a good 25%, and this year more than a third wanted to be registered at these schools. So, the highest percentage after the school year of 1997, 1998. And the selection process takes place at 46 schools, compared to last year's, where there was a selection process at 36 schools. Does this not in itself mean enough that the procedure that we have changed has changed and that today you are saying that some procedure of criteria will apply for the next longer period, at least 3 years. I wonder because you say with such ease that it is not necessary for students and parents to know this today, because she is a nine-year-old in the ninth department actually before this generation, that there is enough time left if we do this in September, October. Mr Minister, you say that it is not necessary and that it is possible to do so also in September, and then you will again send criticism to schools, that they have prepared very poorly the part for which they can set 5 points. Today, of course, the question on the table is whether there was a significant increase in the proportion of those who completed education with excellent success compared to the success of the year before. Since on the other hand we have even worse success in external checks, which do not count, the question is, of course, when you talk about burdening students and parents, we read that external verification should be voluntary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u98	Mr. Germich, what is the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u99	To hold a debate on the Minister's answers to my question. I mentioned it at the beginning, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u100	Yeah, but it went a little too far, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u101	Look, we're talking about the complications of admission to high school this year. The question is to avoid proposing changes for school years in the future, how these criteria and criteria are conceived and on the basis of what the Minister has stated here today, there is a fear that the complications will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much. As you know, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly whether or not to hold a debate at the next meeting in the framework of tomorrow's votes. Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. It is only Mr Bevk, who will ask the question, probably in the absence of the Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. The Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mercury Mine of Idrija in Article 1 provides that it is necessary to protect the environment directly above the mine and thus protect the city of Idrija from the possession and other consequences reflected in the mining and health damage of former miners due to long-standing mining and to remedy these consequences and to provide the means of recovery. In this regard, the Minister of Economy, Mag. I'm asking Andre the Visionary. When will you return to the municipality of Idrija the buildings and land of the mine owned by the state, which are not directly related to the incarceration works? How is the payment of mining damage, which is more modest year after year and does not allow the city of Idria to be fully rehabilitated due to the consequences of mining? How do you cooperate with the Ministry of the Environment, which is preparing a monitoring programme for the next period in accordance with the adopted 2004 Law, and are you involved with the Environment Ministry in adopting a European Union strategy on mercury, one of the more important environmental projects in Europe? How do you participate in a child care project in Idrija, which is burdened with radioactive radon and will be closed in these days and moved to two different safe locations? The recovery of the consequences of half a thousand-year mining is a matter of several government departments, but they are not fully coordinated, so I expect more coordination and cooperation from the Ministry of Economy and Government between different ministries, such as the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economy, which is the mother ministry for this area and for the implementation of this law. Since the long-term programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idria applies for the period 2001-2006, finally, Minister Vizjak, I ask you: When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the amendment of this programme, as it is clear that the closing and other works related to mine closure and environmental rehabilitation in the city of Idria will not end this year? In addition, I am finally interested in the content of this programme and how the competent ministry implements the amendment of the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idrija mine, [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which was adopted in 2004 in this National Assembly. [[..]] I ask the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk, also for identifying how the answer should be given. But I invite Dr. Slavinac to ask the Minister of Transport, mag. Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Christmas! Despite warnings, initiatives, proposals and other efforts, the inhabitants of Pomurje, in particular those living along the G1/3 road, cannot escape the feeling that they are treated by the country as third-class citizens. Also, the conclusions and information from the last meeting of the Roadside Monitoring Committee have not satisfied them, on the contrary, there is always greater dissatisfaction and it is precisely to avoid the most radical measures which the roadside affected have rightly announced for this autumn, that I would like to call on you, with the following questions, to make a common effort and to resolve the unsustainable situation, particularly in Prekmurje. In particular, for this year's announced replacement of windows on buildings along the mentioned road, especially those most exposed, is to be announced for realisation only in 2007 and 2008. I hope that it is clear to all that these are completely incomprehensible, unacceptable deadlines for the inhabitants, because we need to approach the rehabilitation as soon as possible, not only when the highway is already built and, of course, there will be no real need for this, because the situation will be managed on its own in one way or another. The next thing, the reconstruction of the roads in Prekmurje is significantly behind the announced deadlines and even more, for sections where, as the Črešnjevci-Dolnji Lakoš in particular, the renovation would have to be completed two weeks ago, it is not even a dedicated job order. So I want to know when it will begin with the renewal of this and other sections of the road and why the delay has occurred and who is responsible for the delay. The review of road maintenance contracts shows that in the area of the road company Murska Sobota, the values for the renovation of the reconstruction show a relative minimum value for the renovation of one km of road, and this ratio, for illustration, is even 22 times smaller than in Ljubljana, for example. And in the end, Mr. Secretary-General: Why did you limit road traffic restrictions in the Republic of Slovenia on Sunday to 21 p.m. while in some other areas this restriction applies until 24 p.m. Thank you so much for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u106	Minister Mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for the question, Dr. Mitja Slavinec. The activities related to the problem of the G-13 main road are very large in the last period. Passive noise protection, road rehabilitation and the construction of pedestrian, cyclists and tractors shall be carried out expeditiously. In doing so, it must be said that all activities are carried out in accordance with the prescribed procedures and within the minimum possible time limits laid down in the legislation. In view of the above, I cannot agree at all that the State considers the citizens of Pomurje to be third-class citizens with regard to the development of road infrastructure. First, I would answer the first question about anti-group protection. With regard to passive noise protection, I can say that two studies and one laboratory have already been developed, two laboratories have been ordered and 10 settlements are currently selected by the contractor for the preparation of the laboratories. The value of passive anti-group protection laboratories to be produced this year exceeds 50 million tolars. The Ellaborats were commissioned on the basis of additional funds provided for short-term measures, since the 2006 budget funds were already engaged in signed 2005 contracts. By means of procedures for the implementation of passive anti-group protection, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads started the procedure for the implementation of the first phase of anti-group protection for Dolnji Lakoš in the second half of 2005, i.e. for half of the facilities envisaged. Unfortunately, the call failed, although eight companies, mostly from the Pomurje area, were invited by the Slovenian authorities to bid for roads. The invitation to tender was repeated and, on the re-examination of the invitation to tender, some of the members of the monitoring committee for the construction of the motorway in Pomurje also received an offer from one tenderer with whom the contract was signed on 28.10.2005. The selected contractor carried out the work until spring of this year. Currently, the selection of the contractor for the implementation of the second phase of anti-group passive protection in Lower Lakos is under way. The estimated value of parts is 15 million tolars and works will be carried out by the end of this year. By autumn, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to provide works for the implementation of anti-group protection in accordance with available means and prepared counter-group protection laboratories. The overall estimate of the estimated costs for the implementation of anti-group protection at G1-3 between Gornja Radgono and Dolnji Lakoš amounts to 407 million tolars. The second question concerning road renewal, road renewal delays or overlays, or backlogs, can be answered as follows. To date, all overlays have been made within the shortest possible timeframe, taking into account the fact that the start-up funds were provided only in June 2005 and that investment documentation and public procurement procedures had to be confirmed. All the commissioned works were then carried out in the three autumn months of 2005. The fact is that work on some sections has not yet been completed or has not yet begun, but this is only because of the lack of funding. The value of construction works and project contracts in 2004 amounted to 138 million tolars, and last year it was worth as much as one billion 174 million tolars. Since 2006 budget appropriations have been committed and spent for the implementation of the work in 2005, and at the same time the 2007 budget appropriations have also been committed, only work is carried out once this year on the road section arrangements between Gornja Radgona and Melje, which are now in the final phase. Government redistribution has also provided 360 million tolls to continue the implementation of short-term measures, which will begin immediately after the conclusion of the relevant contracts or annexes to signed contracts. Work will also be carried out in the autumn from the 2007 budget. In addition to the funds already provided in the national budget, it will be necessary to provide 870 million tolars in the period 2007 and 2008. Prior to the provision of these additional means for the realisation of all with the field of direct monitoring of the construction of motorways in Pomura, agreed measures will not be possible. Just a few more words about the secured road area of the Murska Sobota Road Company. With regard to the amount of road maintenance, I can tell you that your claim is not valid. The analysis of data on all maintained items shows that under the contract for regular maintenance of roads in the area of the Murska Sobota Road Company, 962,755 tolars per km of road are intended. The smallest section of the road along a particular area and a kilometer of the road is 955.678 tolars. In addition, the amount of funds depends not only on the length of roads per area, but also on many factors such as the order of the road, the condition of the vehicle, the sharpness of the winter in each year and other. Because I'm running out of time, I hope I can make it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac, possibly a complement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u109	Yes, of course, for two reasons, to enable the Minister to continue his reply and because I am also not satisfied with the answers. First of all, the concrete thing that my data does not hold, does not hold to the fact that the Pomurs are treated as third-rate, treated as 22 class citizens, is indeed a 22-fold factor. For 440,992 km of roads in area 7, 114 million are dedicated, amounting to about 250,000 per kilometer. We are talking about the registered value of the DRSC for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the road area of the Republic of Slovenia. For 674 kilometres in the area of two, there are 2.5 billion; even more so, the biggest factor is in the Ljubljana road company, area 5 where there is 4 billion 759 for 857 kilometres. So, five and a half million per kilometer, a 22-fold factor. The second thing is, there is no money left, but I asked why the money is running low and why it is the least invested on the most endangered road in Slovenia. The Ministry and you, as ministers, are certainly obliged to ensure such priorities in order to remedy the situations that are most at risk. And we can probably all agree together that more endangered roads than the G1-3, especially in the Prekmurje area, where most roads run through settlements, are not in Slovenia, and therefore my question was raised to remind you again that you are aware of this and that with joint efforts we are really preventing what is already forecasting for autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much for the possibility of further clarification or for completing the questions raised. With regard to the traffic limitation order, I would like to continue. The restrictions differed according to the purpose and the period followed by the individual restriction, and we also followed the economic importance of the traffic limitation order and reduced the general restriction applicable throughout the year in the order on Sundays, except during the tourist season, from 22 p.m. to 21 p.m. On certain roads, as you correctly point out, Mr Member, there is indeed a limit of 24 hours, but in only the so-called tourist season, which is based on the order from the last weekend in June to including the first weekend in September. These are the most burdened sections of roads leading mainly towards the Slovenian coast and Istria, such as the Ljubljana-Klanec motorway, the Ljubljana-Klanec regional road. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , road Škofije-Sečovlje, Kopa-Dragonja and towards Kvarner Bay on the road Postojna-Yelšana. [[...]] Despite the restriction, which lasts on roads until 24:00, traffic is permitted along the highway from Ljubljana to Divača during the tourist season between 22:00 and 24:00. At the Ministry of Transport, we are trying to regulate freight traffic restrictions in a way that tries to meet the needs of maximum mobility and safety and to minimise freight traffic, which represents an important service within the national economy. I still owe you an extra comment. I can say that in our ministry we are very strongly and very committed to regulating the situation on G-13 road, many activities are taking place, as I mentioned, not least the construction of the motorway itself takes place in steps we have set out. In short, I am optimistic, however, of course I call on the population to endure the few months remaining until the completion of the motorway, which is a few months, until the end of 2008, when the motorway in Pomurje will also be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We continue with the questions, and it is Mr Mag's turn. Sajovic, who will ask a question to the absent Minister of Economy if he wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question to the Minister for Economy, Mr Visiak, and I expect an oral objection from him at the next meeting. It is an initiative, a question, and, in fact, a request that, personally as Minister, he be more actively involved in solving some of the problems of certain mountain enterprises, in which the country and the government, of which Mr Vizjak, Minister, play a significant role and ownership, play a significant part. I'm thinking of two companies in particular. One is the company Iskra Nameco from Kranj, and the other is the company PGP, which is part of the company Pekko, which is Pekko d.d., which is owned by the majority of the country. Both companies have quite a few things in common. Both companies have experienced serious economic difficulties in the last two years, and in both companies, a large number of people in the municipality of Tržič, which I belong to, I must say that companies are extremely important for the municipality of Tržič, also Iskra Nameko, because despite the fact that the company is located in a neighbouring municipality, there is an extremely large number of Tržičans working in it, and the municipality of Tržič has the highest unemployment rate in Gorenjska right now and, of course, the lowest wages in the region, so that you can understand our concern about what this is all about. We believe that the Ministry of the Economy, given the share held by KAD and the SOD in these two companies, is holding a somewhat too far sideline, we expected a more decisive word, and above all the action taken by the Minister himself, because certain actions show that both the Ministry and the CAD and the SOD are not harmonised in all these activities. Of course, the huge, extremely important and powerful impact of policy on this story is evidenced by the following data. In KAD, Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem, Vice-President of the Supervisory Committee, is Mr Gregor Gomišček, President of the KAD Assembly, President of the Management Board is Tomaž Toplak and Janez Janša is President of the SOD Assembly. All these people belong to one political option, which at the moment must also take the key steps and responsibility to resolve this story as we all want, that is to say, to preserve the assets of small shareholders, to preserve all jobs and to continue production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. You little rascal, Matjaž Han. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House of Respect! The Slovenian Employment Office recently published data indicating that we currently have the lowest number of registered unemployed persons in Slovenia. If we look at this data in isolation, we could say that the situation in this area is solid in Slovenia. Unfortunately or fortunately, we know the saying that the devil goes into detail. The rapid reduction in the number of unemployed is not based on the accelerated employment of the unemployed, but rather on much less encouraging administrative measures. In practice, this means that the unemployed have not been employed, but have been removed from the employment prospector's register by the institution for such or other reasons. This year, according to the same period last year, only about 1,400 more people were employed. However, during the same period, the number of persons removed from the register was higher than 8,000 persons last year, such as those withdrawn from the register because they were not available for employment, rejected the job offered or included in the active employment policy measure or were working in black, last year almost 6,500 people were poor during the same period. This means an increase of 50%, which is extremely unusual if we know that the institution is working under the same legislation this year as last year. Dear Minister, you have clearly taken as an example the reduction of unemployment a fellow Virant who so elegantly ascribed the number of employees in public administration by changing the methodology and certain categories simply did not want to have employees anymore. Some of the legislative measures you have drawn up and will be discussed at this meeting will also result in a certain outflow from unemployment records. The pressure of people to accept any job or even unpaid work without being stimulated and rewarded in any way will result in a number of swinging hands and finding money to survive in black work, and officially it will no longer be found among job seekers. Dear Minister, on the basis of the above, I ask you how you comment on the data of the Slovenian Institute of Employment on the number of unemployed, which is expected to be record low despite the fact that we do not notice a more marked increase in the number of jobs in Slovenia. And why, with such excellent statistics in the field of unemployment, Slovenia needs fundamental changes in employment, which you personally advocate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, just a word or two. I very much ask fellow Members of Parliament and Members not to mention in their questions other ministers because they do not have the opportunity to answer. We all know the rules of procedure, let us stick to it as we need to, as it comes to this institution. I now invite Minister Drobnik to answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u117	A few statistical data from the statistical office that you can see anywhere. This year's labour force increased by 6,320, from 813,558 in December 2005 to 819,878. That's the data, 6,000 more activity. Therefore, it also explains unemployment. This year the number of registered unemployed decreased by 7,700, from 9,2575 in December to 84,875. You also mentioned this statistical information on the special record. In the framework of the previous government, a special record was introduced, which took place in the case of some 14,500 unemployed persons, with which unemployment has been statistically reduced and not in fact. We have not significantly increased this special record within the mandate, now almost two years, and certainly not in the amount it had in the previous mandate. The reduction of unemployment is therefore primarily a factor in the activities taking place in the labour market. This year, the number of registered unemployed persons decreased by 7,700, from 92.575 to 84,875 at the end of June 2006. This is the least unemployment in the self-sustaining period. That's a fact. Anyone can see that. The surveyed unemployment, measured according to the methodology of the International Labour Organisation, shows a decrease in unemployment from 7.3% to 6.9% in the first quarter. This employment agency does not work, this is done by the statistical office according to international standards. Now we're going to get the next indicator for the second quarter, but I don't have it yet. Employment for the unemployed increased this year, with 30,341 people employed this year or 4.7% more than in the comparable period last year. In this year, 986 disabled persons were employed in the first half of the year, 38% more than in the same period last year because we introduced a quota system for employment. Of course, this also makes the social partners happy, especially the unions. In this first quarter, according to the Statistics Office, the number of job vacancies increased by 2091, which is about 20%. It's just data that can't be challenged. So, why are we doing reforms? Because, as Minister, of course, I am also concerned about this remaining part of the unemployed, which is reduced, even though it is 50,000 unemployed, there are still many pressures and problems in the family, so we are obliged to implement reforms that will provide more jobs, more prosperity, and so we have prepared laws, because there will be more order where less work will be black, so we have also prepared a law on prevention of work on the black, which will upgrade the work of previous governments, so that we will have better results. We also need to speed up the employment of more difficult people. The Employment Act now contains measures, not active employment policy measures, which depend on money intended for active employment policies, but in any case for older than 55 years, for younger than 28 years and for women not to be neglected by employers. Why did we delete so many of them? You're giving reasons why they wouldn't take the job because they're working in black. I think that the entire audience here agrees that we have been removed from the employment agency; obviously they have other reasons for survival and, of course, there is no need to help in this way in employment, so the institution is focusing on those who really need work. We support the work of the Employment Institute, which directs its activities towards those who want to work. Currently, we need 3,000 drivers, about 400 seasonal workers and 2,000 builders and some other profiles in the service area, care, health care, informatics, mathematicians, then translators, musicians and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u118	Time's up. Thank you very much. My colleague Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, statistics are one thing, but life is, I think, something else entirely. With your answer, though, I can be partially satisfied, but I can't be completely satisfied. As an opposition Member, you have claimed that the numbers of registered unemployed are incorrect, misleading and false, I say this in my previous mandate. The registered unemployed should also include more than 13,000 persons from the so-called special register, persons exercising pension and disability insurance rights and who are not active job seekers, according to your belief at that time. After taking over the minister's office, you have obviously turned the board upside down, not only did you not put these people on unemployment records, even vice versa, but you do well to ensure that the unemployed stream into a so-called special record, which you have previously named. If the number of unemployed were to really fall as quickly as the statistics show, I do not know the Minister for Labour who would go to change the system and risk these trends turning. Therefore, Minister, what is really behind your emphasis on the need for greater flexibility in the labour market and the reduction of employee rights? The system, which you claim is too tight, obviously works very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I will also give you the exact details of this special record, introduced by Mr Dimovski, my predecessor, the minister of your party. In December 2004, you know what it was, there were 14,306 people on this special record, and this was filled in in two years due to statistics. At the end of June 2006, about this period, this figure increased not by 1,000 people, why I did not therefore draw it in order to do what the former Minister did. First of all, I didn't want to ruin everything he put up. Secondly, if this record were to be deleted, it should put everything into active records and explain to the international public what happened in Slovenia in order to change unemployment for so long. Since nothing has actually happened and it would be very interesting to ask how to explain it, nothing has happened, and for 15,000 more unemployed, because the previous minister has introduced some strange record. Yes, he introduced it in his previous term. This record is at a level such as it is, nothing increases, it is, nothing increases. The active employment policy measures, which we now propose, will reduce, but this was not the innovation of this government. But it's true that they're hard to employ these people, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u122	Mr. Minister, I must also warn you that the former Minister cannot answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u123	I apologize, but I was obliged to explain when this was, in 2002, this record was introduced, but this is publicly available and you can get it. Even taking into account the fact that this placement has increased by 1,000 to records, the fall in unemployment from 92 000 last year to 84 000. An important statistically significant also shows that it is in line with ILO standards and there is nothing that can be disputed. I will be happy if we jointly take into account or take additional measures to further reduce unemployment. And also your proposals, which you have made in the framework of the development partnership within the meaning of this law, are welcome and constructive, I have already said that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Squeakl, it is quite unusual that we should make procedural proposals in the course of the parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u125	Mr President, I just want to say that I procedurally wanted to do exactly what you are. You have previously warned members of the opposition, of course, how wrong it is to talk about ministers who are not here. And Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been talking for quite some time about a minister who is not here. That is why, of course, it would be right for the Minister to be warned. That is all I wanted and, of course, I thank you for finding this out as Chairman and for alerting the Minister. In fact, most of this government, now almost two years later, is still talking about former ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal, but I thank you for your support and I give the floor to Dr. Gantar, who will ask Dr. Virant, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister and outgoing Minister. First of all, Mr. Minister Virant. Last week, Mr Minister, you commended yourself on a successful public call for mobile telephony services. The call itself, as we know, consisted of two sets, one covered the services of so-called voice telephones, including some other services, which are technically not exactly voice telephony such as SMS, e-mail client and so on. Within two of them, data transfer services were covered, which is probably what you think of data transfer services via fast mobile networks to terminals called computers rather than mobile telephone devices. Mobitel d.d. was selected as the best bidder for Unit 1 and Simobil d.d. was selected for Unit 2. As can be seen, the provider of the call price within the mobile business user "public administration" was tariff 2.78 SIT per minute. While this price, as the minister probably knows, is the same as the Mobile price that Mobil offers to all major business users, with large business users from 2 to 4 ordering relationships ahead, which is very interesting for him. So this is where the call came in only what Mobitel had already offered. I would like to ask the Minister with a question: Were the phone tariffs already set for Mobile's business network at prices prior to this call, when it came to Mobile's users or not, in public administration? Secondly, I am interested in this division into set 1 and set 2 because it is known that electronic mobile communications are being converted and we have a whole range of data transmissions that I have already mentioned and, at the same time, via so-called data transmissions, we can make the phone via "voice over IP", this is being converted. And the third time. What is the rate for the related subscription fee for the services in Section 1 because I did not understand you from the data you published? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm giving the floor to Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, for the question. Prior to the execution of this covert or joint procurement contract, the conclusion of the procurement arrangements took place in a partial manner, mainly on the basis of low-value contracts. There was no single approach to mobile telephony and this did not exploit the potential of the state administration and its competitive advantages as a large business system. As regards the tariff for voice telephony services within individual ministries and other bodies, most ministries did have this tariff, but the whole state administration was not treated as a single business environment and we were therefore called between ministries at a higher rate. That is why we have decided to adopt a uniform approach and if you decide to take a uniform approach and go into a contract for the whole state administration, and you also invite municipalities, courts, national councils and others to join, then you have to act in accordance with the law on public procurement, give all operators on the market the opportunity to compete with them. On the basis of this invitation to tender, we have actually awarded a public contract for two sets, taking into account as criteria the exclusive price, namely the prices of services in respect of the basket, which reflects our actual use, so we simulated the actual use of the average user in the state administration, what is the structure of this consumption, what we call each other, what are we calling the external partners, what is called abroad, what is called in Mobile's, Simobil's network, on the stationary network and so on, so that the criterion was expressed in the form of a very long formula, on which Mobile was chosen as the most advantageous provider for voice telephone services and the purchase of mobile devices, and it is true that the price of conversations within the public administration business environment is costing so much as other Mobile offers to large business users, while other services are offering prices lower. So let's say the price of the call to Mobile network is 15 tolars, the VPO package offers 20 tolars, the price of the call to Simmobil network is 29 and the VPO package is 39. The price of one SMS and 10 tolars and 20 tolars in the VPO package. We have calculated on the case of our ministry that savings are 27% only due to these lower prices. If the average use was 12,900 earlier, at these new prices it would be 9,000 tolars, with an additional cost savings of three categories of apparatus, that is 3,900. 9,900 and 39,900 instead of the prices offered by Mobile in its large business package, 29,900 compared to 3,900, 60,900 compared to 9,900 and 60,000 compared to 39,900. At the same time, it is an additional savings that all contracting authorities in the single business environment of the state administration plus all the municipalities that wanted to join, plus the courts, plus the national council, the state council and some others, the health insurance institution will be treated as a single business environment and we will also call each other at this low tariff or at this rate of 2,784 tolars with VAT. Why did we go in two sets? We estimate that the first service is used or not only evaluated, but this is the fact that the first service is used for voice telephony, which is a minor part of data transmission, although it is true that data is also being transmitted within this service, such as sending messages. The second set is intended only for the transmission of data using a special card for the transfer of this data on laptops and therefore these two services are distinct. This separation is also important in terms of economy. This has also proved empirical, where a more favourable bidder was selected for Section 2. If all services were to be taken within one set, they would not be obtained within each set of more favourable providers. That's how we saved something. The answer to a question about the subscription fee. There is no connection fee in the first set. And the subscription is 1,000 tolars.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you for explaining for the information I couldn't find myself or didn't have. First, I would say that the fact that the public administration went to the call for proposals is certainly good and should be welcomed. That's what had to happen. But the question is, at least I look at it from different angles. One dawn as of course costs in public administration. Surely this call will in some way contribute to reducing the cost of telephony in public administration. But whether you, Minister, have asked yourself when you should actually do what they have done in all countries, namely mobile phone users, mobile phone service users should not use them for personal purposes, not different limits and so on. If I was abroad, I saw officials or high-ranking officials who had two phones with them: official and private. And as a rule, of course, they did not make a phone call to the office, or they reported those calls that were private and were accounted for separately. This is the first thing that could greatly reduce costs in this segment. Secondly, in the case of a combination of two - that is, the second is the split between the two main operators, this is a question of marketability. I would like to mention that I would rather expect both operators to get a second set in a certain relationship than what happened now because some of the Simobils have been ripped out of public administration. That is why, of course, I believe that you have violated Article 28 of the Law on Electronic Communications, which prevents the giving of undue advantage to certain end-users, which is reflected in certain prices that are lower than you mentioned, and this is, of course, a serious question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you. This question has been repeatedly asked whether, through this procurement, we also manage competition in the electronic communications market. My answer to this question has always been: in the procurement phase, in the tender phase, we opened up competition in the most fair and transparent way possible, because we have allowed all tenderers equal opportunities to compete for this deal. It is true that the first call for a review of Western Wireless, i.e. a company that later withdrew from the Slovenian market, so today, in retroactively looking at this audit, this audit request is rather insurmountable. However, then, in the second stage of the call for proposals, the revisions to the tender criteria were not complete, which means that the tenderers, both operators, agreed to the rules of the game, and it was a fair competition fight, even if there was no revision. I think it shows that you both agree that it was a fair and competitive fight. As a contracting authority, we need to act rationally, this is the essence of public procurement, that is to say, to reach a service that meets certain standards in the best possible way. We provided this with a call, we estimate the savings, those reliable savings are about one third, these are the ones I listed, so lower prices for those services that I listed, plus 40 million per year on the apparatus itself. And there's some evaluation, and here I admit that it's more "over the finger" than we're going to save by making the administration a single business environment, that's my estimate, about 140 million extra. So from this point of view, I have a pretty good feeling about the invitation to tender. This is about this question. One more thing if you can. Just because the invitation to tender was made in a transparent manner and offered all tenderers equal conditions, I do not think there can be a discussion of any intervention in competition. I'm sorry if I can finish, even though I broke up. You asked about private spending. The private use of service phones is undoubtedly the most effective way of limiting spending limits. Given that we will have a completely new public administration contract with Mobile and, of course, in the second package with Simobilo, this is an opportunity to redefine these limits. Now the limits still apply, the government in which you, too, have accepted, are quite loose, only two limits are essentially: 50,000 for top officials and 30,000 for everyone else. Indeed, the ministries have lowered these limits and on average they are moving some 5,000, 7,000, 500 for employees, 15,000 for heads of organizational units, etc. Now we have a nice opportunity to substantially lower these limits from lower tariffs, i.e. lower prices, and to take advantage of the opportunity to further reduce them in order to limit these private calls. Going to this option to ban it under some threat of punishment and then to monitor phone numbers, etc., I think we'd go a little too far here. I'm sure that you too, but I'm there when it's necessary, use the service phone for private purposes, which is why you've been paying for the ratings as long as the Income Act prescribed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u135	I am not too pleased with the answer, so I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the Minister's response be discussed. Of course, I would say this about this last one. It is not a police story, in other administrations it is only assumed that the service phone is for official purposes and that private phones are for private purposes. And if someone makes a private conversation by force of circumstances, it just says and reports, it's a matter of more culture than anything else, not some kind of repression or anything else. What I would like to say about this call, which would be debated, is - and I also say that I am not quite sure, and I will try this out with some kind of application to the Mail Agency and electronic communications and the Competitiveness Office, is whether this obvious 'deal', the agreement that one takes over data communication and the other voice telephony could be said to benefit or damage competitiveness in Slovenia. It seems to me that in addition to the savings that you have mentioned and are probably such - what we have lost in this. We have lost that in the data segment, the public administration will not count on the currently most advanced data technology for rapid transmissions, and that is, of course, UMTS, which is on its way to the fourth generation because this provider does not have it. At the same time, on the voice phone, we will not be able to count on the relatively favourable service offered by another provider, that is Simobil, because it is integrated into the Vodafone into the world system and therefore, of course, has a range of services abroad. And that's why I think this solution is bad. What a good thing it is to say, I agree, because we have such a double market where these two can agree on each other. It would probably make sense to put on some weights to allow Simobil to occur both in the data and voice segment at least to a height exceeding 10% or 20% of its market share. In this way they would probably contribute to greater competitiveness in Slovenia and not significantly lower prices. Once again, these low prices are dumped and this means this 2.78 to be paid in some other way - by who; by all other ordinary users. An old mother who has a cell phone with a credit card will somehow pay higher prices because we will be able to make a phone call within the public administration for 2.80 tolars. But this is not your problem, I agree, Mr Minister, this is a problem of the competitiveness of the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Dr. Gantar. Your proposal to hold a debate on the response of Minister Virant will be voted on tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are now continuing with the questions of the Member States. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the absent Minister of Mags a question. Visionary, Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is known that activities have been carried out for some time to build block 6 with the power of 600 mega watts in the thermal power plant Šostanyj. It is a facility with an additional 150 megawatts, as is known, obtained an energy permit for 500 megawatts, and is stuck in the planned or desired additional 100 megawatts. In my conviction that the non-admission of the decision is not related to the so-called second pillar of energy respected by Minister Viszak, I ask: How is the investment envisaged? The planned investment is certainly of crucial importance for the Shaleska Valley in terms of self-sufficiency with the provision of electricity, as well as for the whole state of Slovenia. The improvement of environmental impacts is certainly an important factor, as the investment envisaged is more environmentally friendly compared to the current situation. In doing so, it is certainly necessary to point out that in the past, in the last decade of the previous century and at the beginning of this period, activities have led to the rehabilitation of the environment or the environmental impact of the thermal power plant of Šostanja, but this investment is still a step forward and is therefore eagerly expected in the valley of the inhabitants and residents. All the support for energy projects and, as a result, coal production over the coming years in Velenje Coal was given by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, with his presence and festive speech at Velenj's mining day. That serious matters may also be the case with the visit of Dr. Jožet Zagozno, who, prior to this celebration, jumped over the skin as usual in miners, thus becoming an integral part of the coal mines in Velenje, which in the past week visited Velenje Coal and went down to Velenje Mine Caves and probably also showed that he was serious about coal mining in the valley. I really wonder: When will this investment be finally decided? However, I would like to receive an answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly, an oral reply in which the Minister will say that the matter is [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much. It's done. The last in the first round is colleague Kokalj, who will ask the Minister of Transport mags a question. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u139	I would like to start by thanking the secretariat of the National Assembly that it has not yet eliminated my question and that, at least for the last time, I am not the last. I am asking the question on the basis of the proposal of the Mayor of Bled. The Bled Deploying Road is supposed to be built for almost 30 years and due to the increasing traffic along the Blej Lake on the road to Bohinjska Bela and given that there are several hotels and traffic jamming both guests and residents, and all freight traffic on the Bled-Bohinj route is taking place along the lake. Due to the truly unsustainable situation caused by the problems experienced by the inhabitants of Bled, the hotelists and the innkeepers located along the road, as well as because of the ecological aspect, it is imperative that the so-called southern unloading road begin to be built. According to the Mayor's data, Bled adopted an act in 2002 confirming the location plan and reconfirming it in 2005, so that there should be no further reservations formally by the local level. However, this project has not been included in the development plans. Given that we know that Bled is also one of the central places of international promotion, I also believe that a constructive approach to this problem should be taken. I ask the Minister: What are the options or obstacles that the project has not yet been classified as a development priority? What can it tell us, in what future would the project begin to take place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for asking. In this regard, I would like to say that this project, which has really lasted forever, is a project of the southern Bleda Oblast, which is included among the development priorities, which we will also consider as such and is on the list of projects to obtain funds from the EU funds for the period 2007 to 2013. Depending on the level of the funds obtained, project documentation or part of the construction will be produced from these funds, as far as possible. Procedures for the construction of this dam have been carried out, as has already been established, since 2002, when the Municipality of Bled adopted a decree on the location plan for the entire route of the southern demure road. For the confirmed route from the location plan, an idea project, a topographical survey, a pre-investment design, and a draft protocol on the regulation of mutual relations were then developed. In 2004, a contract with the contractor was signed to draw up contracts for buying-in facilities needed for demolition. On the basis of the interviews, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads signed a contract with one party in 2005 and paid compensation and a concerted agreement had not yet been reached with the other party. In 2006, i.e. this year, financial resources are provided for the payment of another facility, which is foreseen for demolition. In the years 2007 to 2011, the Slovenian Directorate of Roads will first obtain implementing project documentation, PGD and PZI, and all necessary evidence of land availability for the route. It should be said that the value of the construction works for the fence is estimated at around 4 to 5 billion tolars. So, on the basic issue, according to the envisaged plans, construction will begin in 2009, to the extent that we will, of course, fully provide these funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and also through European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Again, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u144	Mr Friend has the floor to ask the Minister of Economy. As we know, he's gone, but still, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister! I will raise the question and I would also like to have an oral answer to it at one of the next meetings, in relation to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which conducts a public invitation to tender each year to grant grants for the purchase of technological equipment and the development of the economy. It is quite understandable that this call for more private, as well as independent entrepreneurs, private companies and independent entrepreneurs, larger, minorities, is being submitted each year, and it is clear that in fact demand for these funds is increasing. Therefore, those who have all the formal conditions are also excluded from the invitation to tender. This does not bother me, but it is unacceptable that the Slovenian Enterprise Fund simply avoids problems by simply changing the tender conditions after the deadline for the application has already been completed and increasing the required number of points. I therefore ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: Is such a change in the tendering conditions, when tenders are already being concluded? Is it in accordance with the law? Is it possible that this is prescribed by his ministry? Who controls the legality of this fund? Is it ever checked how these funds are shared? With this in mind mainly the verification: Are the funds always distributed to the same persons, or is it a circle, or can subscribers appear in this circle, if I may say so, and always fall out who otherwise meet the conditions and do not have any VIP connections and acquaintances? Of course, I base my question on the attached letter to the Minister, namely, the company Itelkrem from Maribor, which is leading in the roasting of coffee, has built a large facility at their expense and would like to equip this company technologically, but they have been rejected for the second year. These complaints are not small, there are others, we received them to our client by, say, the independent entrepreneurs from Zagorje and then also from Primorska, but this one is evident. That is why, of course, I expect the Minister of Economy to give me a clear answer at the next meeting: What and how is this fund? Does it work transparently, legally? Is he also pleased with what we have gotten into the parliamentary group and it is quite transparent to see that it is a matter of changing the rules within already [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. There aren't many of us marathoners, but we're going to start running a second round of questions. I invite Dr. Slavinac to ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Beast. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, Dr. Beast. You have already answered a similar question today, which clearly shows that this is an important question, the pressing issue of many who are facing their life choices, how to continue primary schooling, how to continue schooling, and how to prepare the first foundation for their studies and careers, or, of course, any other profession. We have already heard a lot about the criteria that apply and are set up for admission to secondary schools. In particular, I will ask the question about admission to high school, and it has been established that you yourself have said that these criteria have now been changed, mainly because of the abolition of the role and importance of so-called externals, external checks, and the mutual comparability of the success of the evaluations is also questionable, and thus, of course, also points that individual students, future students, bring with them and on the basis of which the invitation to value is then called. It is also evaluated differently and also with many comments from those so-called high school 5 points, how they are received and what is valued. Undoubtedly this was confirmed by statistics that the average success in this generation has increased, because this is in a sense logical, because teachers have been exposed to a lot of pressure, because the concrete success of each school, regardless of the comparability of the school with others, is then the entry conditions and, as I said earlier, the specific points. This is why many questions have also been raised and many requests for additional classes have been addressed, and a letter has also been addressed to you, a request for an increase in enrolment at the Franc Miklosic Gymnasium in Ljutomer and from your Minister has then been sent to the conclusion that you do not agree with the increase in enrolment, also because of the threat to the existence of the Gymnasium in Murski Sobota and Ormož, but have later shown that these two high schools with a possible additional class in Ljutomer are not at risk. We also wrote to you at the level of the Pomura Members' Club. Now, Mr. Secretary, I ask you, why have you made such a decision? And: Are there any options to enable students to join this additional class? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you so much for asking. I give my word to the Minister Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Your Honour, this is a very substantive question that I have tried to answer before. In the first place, it may be just that it is really necessary to redefine the relationship between high school programs and vocational professional secondary programmes, that there are no fixed boundaries and that 40% and more than the population is enrolled in high school, that one today is difficult to say whether this is too much or too little - given the rapid change in the structure of society itself, given that Slovenian society is learning society and that there is an increasing proportion of those studying, and that in some ways it is normal for an increasing proportion of the population to be enrolled in programmes that allow easier access to tertiary studies. So far, everything is nice and right and I have never personally claimed that this percentage is too large to be enrolled in high school. But it's important, and this is my job - to allow some revitalization of professional and professional programs, and that's exactly what we're doing right now. Indeed, all of Europe is trying to renovate vocational education quickly, precisely because of the call for the European economy, which is becoming increasingly united, as much as Europe wants to become competitive with other regions in the world. So, there are two synchronous processes; on the one hand, there is a rapid reform in many starting points, including a systemic reform with a new law on vocational and vocational education; on the other hand, there is an urgent need to clearly define the role and importance of high school general secondary education. And as far as this part of secondary education is concerned, we need to keep and keep an eye on the network so that some gains in a school do not cause more damage to another school. Indeed, on 5 May this year, a conclusion was forwarded to the Lztomer High School, namely that we do not agree with the increase in enrolment. That's what we were trying to justify with the next one. In the Pomur region, we invited 424 free places for high school programmes this spring, but there were 411 candidates, so we have invited 12, 13 more places in this region than the original candidates. The only surplus occurred at the mentioned high school, 160 instead of 120, despite the fact that at this school it is limited spatial capacity, that there is already a partial education in primary school and that only monthly rent costs us a million sixth, but that is not the biggest problem. The problem is that the capacity at this school is limited, and I also understand because of the high reputation of the school, the high ratings in public, that some want to enroll children at this very high school also from Prekmurje and Goričko. At the same time, however, you need to be rectified, we still have ten seats available at the chamber school and another 20 at the economic high school, so that it does not hold; if the department were to be invited here, there would be an additional shortage of men's gymnasium. It is always so that we must decide between the two evils, in particular now that we have fewer students and in the coming years we expect a drop in the number of students due to poor years in the second half of the 1990s. I hope that this trend will conclude that, with better criteria, we will also make it possible for the student to have as much equal conditions as possible. However, the fact is that you mentioned the criteria; the criteria are full. Their purpose is to make a difference between good students. It's like some people go to the desired high school, others don't. However, it is very important that we allow everyone to join the desired programme. If we uncritically open up some departments in some schools, then put the network in jeopardy, it is true that we get into the difficult situation of neighboring high school, and in this case we would suffer the suburban or the Mursophos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Of course, I can agree with you that the matter of discussion is the percentage of students enrolled in high school. It is certainly reasonable to encourage also due to trends and employment opportunities - not least European needs - vocational education, in particular science and technology orientations here; but until certain criteria are provided for the promotion then from secondary schools forward and possibly technical schools or whatever they are told, so long as the criteria are changing, and so much more until the new criteria, as you announce, are fully established, then this "ad hoc" modification of criteria can lead to situations such as have happened here that the criteria are not fully defined. And of course, students don't know if they're going to become students of one high school and what they need, what level and specific number of points for that. Once again, I stress that these criteria are so full, but unfortunately with equally large holes for all. Once again, what I have said is that excellent success at one primary school and excellent success at another primary school, until there is a mutual comparison, is certainly worth a difference, even though later this value is the same for individual schools. So we don't have an external comparison as long as you decide not to do them, then an acceptable exam or something like that comes into play, which of course is not popular. But to avoid this at this particular moment, surely only the question is: Is your decision definitive?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you. Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u153	The current rules, I may not know them that much, but they weren't as catastrophic as they seemed. It took into account the final learning success plus in subjects that were weighted by the number of hours per subject transferred to the coefficient. In this way, we tried to make a difference between excellent students or those students who wanted to enroll in the best high school. And more or less they held up. It is true, however, that we have allowed schools to have a 5% right, in just 5% of the school itself to autonomously set some criteria and I think that in practice there was the biggest stumbling block. By giving schools autonomy, I think, these schools themselves have practically prepared this proposal, we have not violated some of the great principles of equal opportunities. On the contrary, I think it will have to be an emphasis on school in the perspective that it also chooses the personnel it wants. In particular, the school will seek out those competences, knowledge and skills with which it tries to establish itself as such in the wider community. But once again, this is a question of the future, we need to change this philosophy, but by then we will really draw up the other criteria that I spoke about earlier, will be known in time, and nothing will be too late if adopted this month. However, the criteria have been difficult since 2001 and there have been no major public controversy in any year. More or less, there is a debate between the Council of Experts and the Minister, who has delegated their duties to each other. I will take this responsibility so that students and teachers and schools will have all the conditions for entry in the coming years. In the past, ministers have not accepted these responsibilities. I will, but this time we will try to make the system also compromise on the basis of those severe criticisms of the current criteria, and I hope that the criteria will not then give so much public attention, particularly criticism. But the truth is, everyone will never be satisfied. The only thing that surprises me is that some of them have recently come out in public opinion, if my daughter has not been chosen because the ministry is poorly run. These are rather inappropriate arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much. And Dr. Slavinz, cheers. I give the word "magic." To spend, which has a question for the Minister of Public Administration, for Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary and all those who have survived in the Chamber. My question will again be linked to NGOs. It is not the first time that I have asked this question, I have already addressed a written question to the government, and I have also received an answer to it. I must say that a very extensive response has ensured that the dialogue between the government and non-governmental organisations is of great quality. At that time, I also asked about the cooperation agreement between NGOs and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I must conclude that this document can be seen on the websites, so that it could also be concluded that the Government's position on the draft programme was to be drawn up, since it is still for the period 2005 to 2008, until the end of June. I don't know that opinion yet. In addition, there is also a strategy on the website of the Ministry of Public Administration of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for cooperation with NGOs. And there, in the final chapter of the Action for the Implementation of the Strategy, it is stated that prior to the signing of the cooperation agreement between government and non-governmental organisations, the Government will ensure the development of three analyses: an analysis of the existing forms of involvement of NGOs in the preparation and implementation of government policies, an analysis of the legal and economic framework for the work of NGOs and an analysis of the possibility of carrying out certain public functions in non-governmental organisations. Since other documents can also be traced - I am thinking mainly of the various resolutions on national programmes - an outstanding emphasis on NGOs, I am interested in: When will the analysis of existing forms of involvement of NGOs in the preparation and implementation of government policies and the analysis of the possibility of performing certain public functions in non-governmental organisations be completed? What measures will the Government take on the basis of the findings of all three analyses? It is true that one of these is already over and wears the 2006 anniversary, but all three are not yet there. After this first analysis, is there perhaps a need for a specific law on NGOs to be drawn up? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your questions. Two of the three planned analyses have already been carried out with regard to the implementation of the strategy, namely an analysis of the involvement of NGOs in the preparation and implementation of government policies and an analysis of the legal and economic framework for the functioning of NGOs, and both are already available on the websites of the Ministry of Public Administration under the heading Cooperation with NGOs. The third analysis is an analysis of the possibility of carrying out certain public functions in non-governmental organisations, and the Ministry plans to do so in the coming year. With regard to the analyses carried out, the Ministry has taken several measures. The first relates to the preparation of views on the draft agreement on the cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with NGOs. In this regard, the Ministry has taken the initiative to set up an inter-ministerial working group to resolve open issues in the field of government cooperation with NGOs, which the Government has also adopted, supported or accepted. The tasks of the permanent inter-ministerial group are: to prepare a proposal for government positions for a draft agreement on the cooperation of non-governmental organisations with the government, to coordinate the implementation of the strategy for cooperation with non-governmental organisations and to address other open issues and to prepare proposals for their resolution in the field of government cooperation with non-governmental organisations. In this regard, the basic basis for preparing government positions for the draft agreement and the accompanying package of measures to improve the situation for the functioning of the NDOs were precisely the results of the above-mentioned analyses. The preparation of the government's views on the agreement and the proposal for measures are in the final stage and will be forwarded to the government for consideration at the end of August and will be offered after confirmation to NGOs for discussion. On the basis of coordination with them, priority actions will be set out which will be reflected in the annual action plans. As regards the legal status of NGOs: a new company law came into force in June, which simplified the arrangements for the determination of the functioning of societies in the public interest or of the public utility of associations, it also established the direct consequence of the status acquired, which is in particular the advantage of such companies in public procurement. Since the public utility of societies is also recognised by other laws, such as the Law on Humanitarian Organisations, Disabled Organizations, Consumer Organisations, and individual laws extend it to other private legal persons, such as private institutions and institutions, or otherwise regulate the position of NDOs, the Government plans to study in particular the various regulations and good practices in this area and to ensure the coherence of these arrangements and does not plan a roof law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you. But when I listened to you, I still have some questions. The draft cooperation agreement shall specify in point 8 what is not considered to be governmental organisations. In this study, which I could find on the websites, there are just over 20,000 subjects in the analysis, which are dealt with and more than 19,000 of whom are in the organisational form of society. So what is a non-governmental organisation in the strictest sense of the word is, in my view, to be defined because it is also a matter of funding. And this is where the question that I would like to ask you again begins. I know that, it says, I picked it up from the news that on November 24th last year you set up this working group, whose tasks you also presented. However, if all I can read is a fundamental quality in the functioning of NGOs, their sustainability or sustainability of their programmes from 1 to 3 years. This is where I think the problem begins because some NGOs have signaled that even those who have so far responded to the calls with programmes that have been well assessed in their quality, are no longer receiving funds or are failing on calls, and are covering the social segment that the government does not cover. It is understandable that the government has the right to its own direction, but the information and activities of the Legibitra or Shkuca, which have not been successful at the invitation of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, only fall within this framework [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much. It's the minister again. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I understand that the issue relates to specific cases of public procurement for the allocation of funds from the State budget or for the provision of certain services on which NGOs can also run - I find it very difficult to comment on specific calls, because I do not know them, the criteria set out in the tenders and these criteria must be respected. On the other hand, one of the studies we are talking about has shown that the revenue of NGOs in Slovenia compared to NGOs abroad, that a relatively high share of these revenues is directly from public sources. Slovenian NGOs generate 36.3% from public sources, the second most important source is revenue from the sale of goods and services 30%, and comparative data show that on average incomes are the most important source of revenue from the sale of goods and services. So our NGOs are more dependent or financed by public funds than NGOs in other countries. As it is said, however, I find it difficult to comment on the choice on specific public tenders because I do not know specific cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We are already on the last question put by the Magi. Sajovic to the Minister of Transport mags. Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary and the others present. Of course, the issue is of a kind and well-intentioned nature and does not mean some criticism of the work of the Minister, but points to some serious problem that is obviously the most important for those living on this road in Gorenjska. On the basis of this problem, they also wrote a petition on which more than 70 signatures were signed, and I hope that this petition, which was addressed to me at the Ministry, also came to the Minister. We are aware of the problem that the desire for regulation and similar road transport in Slovenia is no more, but for those who come from that end, the domestic fertilizer is the most important, and on the basis of the facts that the minister has already received in writing, I ask him: What are the options and solutions to this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President, and also for the question that has not been said out loud, but I would still try because there are six short questions about individual questions. The first question was: Why has the Slovenian Directorate for Roads to date done nothing to stop the deterioration of traffic safety on the Begunjska road in Bistrica pri Tržič? And: When will the Road Directorate take appropriate measures to stop the trend of deterioration of road safety? Therefore, the Begunska cesta in Tržič is not included in the list of critical sections that are dealt with as a priority by the Slovenian Directorate for Roads in the framework of a programme for improving traffic safety at locations that are included in the lists of black dots. In view of the above, I propose that the Municipality of Tržič, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 32 and 44 of the Law on Public Roads, commence activities to implement the construction measures for the quieting of traffic and the construction of pedestrian surfaces. In order to mark the school path with traffic signs, the municipality of Tržič or the school at the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads must provide an extract of the safe route laboratory to the school. On its basis, the Slovenian Directorate for Road Maintenance will order the establishment of an appropriate traffic signalling system. The third question was: Will the Roads Directorate limit freight traffic on the Beguni Road? The permanent prohibition on the traffic of all or certain types of vehicles on a public road shall be in accordance with Article 46, paragraph 5, of the Public Road Act under the responsibility of the Minister of Transport. To the extent that there are justifiable reasons for this, I propose that the Municipality of Tržič submit a proposal with an explanation to the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, which will be examined and, in the event of entitlement, also forwarded to our Ministry. Question number four: When will the Directorate implement the necessary extensive reconstruction of the Begunjska road? Has she discussed the construction of sidewalks with the congregation of Tržič? Has the municipality of Tržič perhaps already pointed out the need for reconstruction of this road? The Directorate is aware of the issue of the Begunjska road. On this subject, interviews have already taken place between the municipalities of Tržič and the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, particularly in the school area. The fact is, however, that limited funding in the budgets adopted did not provide financial resources for the implementation of the activity. Question five: Why were traffic signs removed to limit the speed of vehicles to 40 kilometres per hour? Why does the Road Agency consider the additional speed limit on the Beguni road through Bistrica near Tržič to be unnecessary? For a quick answer. In the adoption of the Road Traffic Safety Act in 1998, which reduced the maximum permitted speed on roads in the village from 60 to 50 kilometres per hour, the Directorate removed traffic signs on most state roads with a limit of 40 kilometres per hour. In the Roads Directive, there is no need for additional traffic signalling, but the Municipality of Tržič can submit a proposal to the Directorate on the basis that will be examined by the Directorate and will, of course, inform the municipality accordingly. The sixth question was about the new Bistrica road near Tržič, Brezje, which would take most of the traffic across the Bistrica settlement near Tržič. For a little while. In 1993, the Directorate commissioned the development of an idea project on road regulation through Tržisko Bistrica. This is project P499/93 of May 1993 and was developed by the Kranj Road Company. The version of the transport road Tržiske Bistrica was also processed. The road in question is loaded with approximately 700 vehicles per day, therefore due to relatively low traffic loads it did not join in the past the further implementation of the reconstruction project. Of course, this problem will also be adequately addressed when adopting the national modernisation programme of the state road network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mag. You want a word with me?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary for those answers. We will also provide answers to the people along the road and relevant initiatives to the Municipality of Tržič, and I hope that with some cooperation in the near future we will achieve a successful solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word "magic." Squeak. To Dr. Bajuku's absent Minister of Finance and, of course, to all others absent and to some present, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ambassadors you insist on. Mr Bayuk, I regret to ask the absent minister: What are the priorities of the government and the minister himself in the management of public finances? The Stability Pact, the members of the euro area - and we will undoubtedly become members of the euro area from tomorrow forward with an irrevocable cross-border rate - is recommended to reduce the deficit by 0.5% of gross domestic product per year by 40 billion tolar per year. The government of Mr Janša, Mr Bajuk, will succeed, as some experts have calculated, only in four years. At the same time, we have a high growth in public financial expenditure and all of this results in high indebtedness or the issuing of guarantees. We have calculated that at the time of this government's mandate, the debt, including guarantees and anticipated purchases of the military, will already exceed a thousand 150 billion or almost a million tolars per taxpayer. The government is not yet in the middle of the mandate, and if Mr Minister were with us, I would congratulate him today on how he could do so in Argentine or Balkan terms if he wanted to do so in a year and a half for almost one year's budget. So what is it, Minister, with the government's promise of savings? In a series of documents, the government said the exact opposite, saying it would reduce government spending by 160 billion by two percentage points by 2008. However, in the past week, published data show exactly the opposite: the government will clearly ignore the warnings of the International Monetary Fund, which warns that economic transformation has been successful in the last 12 years, and we are lagging behind in structural reforms, especially since the anti-reform of the pension system, and we are lagging behind in greater efficiency in public spending. Domestic experts also point to this. Mr Dark, according to the STA, assesses the budgetary framework for the next two years as too risky as expenditure increases and does not decrease and, of course, Slovenia loses the opportunity to restructure budget expenditure and prepare for difficult years. A particular problem is the structure of consumption. With regard to drawing on European funds, the deficit from 2005 continues until 2006. In the first five months, we have more than 10 billion payments to the European budget than we get. Looking at the economic structure of the departures, it is clear that the government's priorities are the financing of the military, the southern borders and the conference halls. I therefore ask Mr. Bajuk, Slovenian Government: What are the priorities in the management of public finances? Just a high debt, now that we've managed to jump into the euro area? I request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We are also done with the questions of the Member States. I thank the ministers, who are also gone, for their answers. I also thank all of you for taking such a long time. This concludes this agenda item. Have a nice evening for a change not in football style, and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00 when we resume the meeting. I hereby adjourn the 19th meeting of the National Assembly and continue at 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good evening!
