ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u1	Hello, everyone. Since time is gold, we will start the session and hope that the rest will join us. We begin with the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: only Bevk from 16:00 on, mag. Janez Kramberger, Jožef Školč, Aurelio Juri from 18.30 p.m., Franz Kangler, Drago Koren from 18.30 p.m. onwards, Breda Pecan, who is here, Milan Petek, Villa Rezman from 12.00 p.m. and Milenko Ziherl from 2.00 p.m. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - First draft of the Public-Private Partnership Act 1025-IV. We have four hours and five minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, there is a group of ten Members, with a first-signed magi. Milan M. Sziklom, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. Between us, I welcome Minister Bajuk with my fellow Members and I give the floor to the Minister to further explain the bill. Dr. Bayuk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, a good day to all! The partnership between the public private sector in its essence is a cooperation between the two whose purpose is to provide services traditionally provided by the public sector. The role of the State and the relationship between the State and the market depend on the individual country, its economic system and its level of development, both as regards the development of the state apparatus and the development of the market and market institutions. The public-private partnership is based on the search for the best long-term partner who is expected to bring all his knowledge and experience into the partnership and all his management skills in order to ensure that public services are delivered and that infrastructure really works. The very concept of public-private partnership is not new. Although this form of funding has long been known, it is a changed economic environment, and in particular the need of the European Union countries to respect the Maastricht criteria, to rediscover and introduce it. However, public and private capital participation does not in any way constitute a privatisation of the public sector. It is only a search for synergies between the public and private sectors, a greater enterprise of the private sector optimises investment and thus contributes to achieving the strategic objectives of the country, while the country retains mainly a supervisory and regulatory function. The purpose of the law is to facilitate and promote private investment in public infrastructure and other projects of public interest and to ensure the transparency and fairness of the procedures for concluding different forms of cooperation between the public and private sectors for this purpose. The proposed law adapts Slovenian legislation to the European legal order, since Directive 2004/18 of the European Union also brings construction concessions into Slovenia's legal order. Public-private partnership projects are usually concluded in the context of a competitive dialogue, also defined by the Directive, since these are mostly complex projects with very complex financing models. By defining clear rules of cooperation, we will increase the interest of private investors in financing infrastructure projects as well as in the provision of services provided by only the State so far. The proposed law provides legal protection in all stages of cooperation between the public and private sectors. Legal remedies in the public-private partnership process should enable candidates and public-private partnership operators to effectively and effectively protect their rights and ensure that the State exercises control over the decision-making and implementation process. In the event that the subject of a public-private partnership is a concession of an economic public service or other activity where the law expressly prescribes an administrative decision for reasons of public interest, disputes shall also be resolved in accordance with the administrative procedure. In a public-private partnership, the State no longer buys the means by which it provides the services, but the services themselves. In this way, we hope to achieve the burden of public finances, while standardising services will increase the scope and quality of services. These activities will not be left to the functioning of the market, as the public partner will, through the control of the quality and quality of services and the control of their final prices, allow greater accessibility to these services and thus help to increase general well-being. In order to prepare the best possible law, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with other ministries, collected information on concessions granted in Slovenia and on the legal basis on which they were awarded. The European Union has also conducted research among Member States on the regulation of this area in individual countries. The findings resulting from such data confirm that the area of concessions in Slovenia is different and differently understood, as the partnership between the country and the private sector is developing in different areas. The procedure for awarding concessions is quite vague in the sectoral laws and a systematic regulation of this area is therefore necessary. On the basis of these analyses and findings, in order to simplify and simplify procedures and the transparency relationship in this area, the Law on Public-Private Partnership is indeed a statutory law. So far, public and private sector cooperation can be defined as concessions, public powers and public procurement. Existing laws and other regulations provide for a large number of different concessions that can be divided into two large groups. Concession for the execution of an activity or concession for the use, exploitation or other special right on natural resources, public goods or public goods. Concessions are formally separated but are substantively linked, so the new Public-Private Partnership Act regulates them in a uniform manner. At the same time, this law is a procedural law that regulates uniform procedures for the conclusion of different forms of public and private partnership. The law borders between the public procurement relationship and the public-private partnership. It is essential to distinguish between public-private partnership and public procurement that there is a risk or that a party carries a business risk. Where a public partner bears a majority or the overall economic risk of carrying out an activity, such cooperation shall be deemed to be a public contract irrespective of the concept. The end-user of services is not necessarily the payer of these services. The paying entity does not provide for a public-private partnership relationship. The law is prepared in such a way, at least in the sense that it will also encourage the private sector. For projects worth more than €5.2 million, the public sector will have to carry out a private sector interest test to cooperate in the implementation of such projects. Such a solution is known by quite a few European countries and has been successfully implemented, particularly by Ireland and the United Kingdom. The law in the proposed text summarises the good practice of European countries and eliminates the systemic irregularities which have already been ratified in these countries. It is absolutely mandatory to test the market and at the same time oblige the public partner to prepare a good investment laboratory, which is the basis for a decision on the participation of the private partner in the project. Only if, on the basis of comparative analyses, private cooperation is shown to be justified, the public-private partnership procedure shall continue. Through the preparation of documentation and the assessment of the possibilities for public and private partner participation, the public sector will be forced to form better investment laboratories. This will also contribute to the rational implementation of economic public services or other activities of public interest. A public-private partnership shall be concluded only if there is a contractual will and interest of both parties. Here this law differs from the laws governing public procurement. No public or private partner in cooperation is forced, but such a decision is the free will of both parties. In the event that this interest exists, the law defines, depending on the different options, the procedures for concluding such cooperation. The law provides for different possibilities for cooperation between the public and private sectors. It may be a contractual partnership where, in view of the risk, a concessional relationship needs to be distinguished from a public procurement relationship, or it may be a status partnership where a public and private partner establishes a joint undertaking for the implementation of a public-private partnership project. The involvement of the public and private partners in the construction of infrastructure facilities or in the conduct of activities to be provided by public authorities has proved successful in most developed countries. It is difficult to achieve a higher standard due to limited budgetary resources without the provision of additional, including private, funding resources. The practice so far also shows that the country is not as efficient and successful as the private sector. In order to ensure transparency in the conclusion of all forms of public and private sector cooperation, we need a roof law with all the provisions contained in this law. Such a marriage is before you today on the table, and you will discuss it and decide it. We hope that you will confirm it by Members and Members and that there will be no major changes in the law in the adoption process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite Mr Veršnik to present the position of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you, for your word. Nice greetings to all present, including the minister and his team. In parallel with the regulation of public procurement, which is in the past, and we can say even today, they have constantly raised the temperature here in the National Assembly, the government has taken action to regulate the public-private partnership and today we have before us the proposal of this new law. The concept of public-private partnership itself defines the different forms of cooperation between, on the one hand, the public authorities and the business council, on the other hand, where partnership is concluded with long-term contracts and risks and effects are shared. The content includes private partnership on the one hand private investment in public projects and, on the other hand, private projects are publicly financed, which are, of course, a prerequisite for being in the public interest. The reasons for admission are in the systematic, regulatory framework of the Institute of Public-Private Partnership and the implementation of Directive 2004/18c in the works relating to building concessions. The proposed Public-Private Partnership Act aims to facilitate and accelerate private investment in the construction, maintenance or operation of public-private partnership facilities and facilities and other projects of course of public interest. This is, for the first time, intended to ensure the rational implementation of economic public services and, secondly, to enable the efficient, efficient use of management and exploitation of natural goods. The draft law specifically regulates the principles of public-private partnership, such as: the principle of equality, the principle of transparency, proportionality, balance, competition, procedural autonomy, subsidiary responsibility, the principle of cooperation or equal implementation, in accordance with technical conditions, and the principle of legal protection. Within three months, the Ministry of Finance will establish a specific organisational unit in its composition, which will monitor and cooperate in the implementation of the public-private partnership, supervise the implementation of projects, maintain project records, provide professional assistance to partners in the design of acts, link and coordinate with budgetary planning and implementation of investment and other projects subject to the public-private partnership. The Ministry is also responsible for education, information exchange and public presentation, together with the promotion of public-private partnership opportunities both at national and local level. Public-private partnership policy and advice will be led by the Public-Private Partnership Council under the leadership of the Minister of Finance. Members of the Council shall be independent experts from the economic, legal and other fields of public-private partnership. As regards the form of the public-private partnership, however, a contractual and status partnership is envisaged. The contract partnership may have the nature of a concessional relationship or a public procurement relationship. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposed law brings new quality in the financing of public projects, as well as the decommissioning of state and municipal budgets. However, the prerequisite for the successful implementation of the proposed law is respect for the above principles, which form the basis for good partnership in the public-private partnership relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Pecanov's word on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u6	Good morning to all who have risen so early this morning that we are here together in our hall! The Group of Social Democrats and our party are actively involved in the consideration of the Law on Public-Private Partnership. And unlike most of the other legislative proposals that we have discussed and negotiated so far, the Social Democrats' Group can claim that the debate on this proposal has been of good quality. Our proposals are largely taken into account, and at the same time, the Social Democrats believe that the law that will lay down the framework, criteria and rules of the game for making connections between the public and private sectors is necessary and, in view of the developments in the EU, the obligation of our country in some way. We are well aware of the fact that the conclusion of public-private partnerships in practice will show that a wide range of areas of this law will need to be complemented, the control mechanisms improved and leveraged to prevent abuse. It is already so that the introduction of innovation in such an important area of marriage will be taught by all and we will probably meet again in this mandate with the Law on Public-Private Partnership and its amendments. Unfortunately, we must also find that one of the most important parts of this law for the Social Democrats is not acceptable. However, our proposals for its amendment and its addition were not taken into account without arguments. These are provisions on the possibility of a public-private partnership in the field of so-called social activities, where in our view the proposed solution is now a violation of that part of the development partnership agreement, which reads as "Slovenia must remain a social and social justice state with greater competitiveness." Social justice means equal opportunities for all citizens to access basic resources that provide quality of life. Social justice also means ensuring prosperity and security for those who are less successful in the competition of life, as it is the fundamental responsibility of the social state to ensure by consensus a certain level of social security for all. In this regard, the public sector in particular has an important role to play, which must be effective and should be complemented and linked with the non-disclosure system, in particular with non-governmental organisations and a private initiative. We need a more effective social state based on a flexible understanding of the diversity of people's needs, on promoting the activities and entrepreneurship of individuals, and on the creation of a wider, more diverse and partly competitive supply of social services. We are faced with the need to establish a plural system of prosperity, which is composed in addition to the public sector of the non-governmental, informal and commercial sector. It is therefore necessary to develop a strategy for the pluralisation of the service system, in which non-governmental organisations and private entities of a non-profit nature will first enter as a complement to public operators. The acceleration of the pluralisation of the service system should take place gradually and should not endanger basic social security. In particular, the existing broad network of NGOs, the diversity of their organisational forms, personnel, both professional and voluntary and financial potential provide a good basis for a relatively smooth transition and partial transfer of services from the public sector to non-public operators. However, in the process of pluralisation, we must strengthen the State's responsibility to ensure the conditions for the operation of non-disclosure operators, in particular by providing adequate material conditions for their operation, as well as by organising other forms of support mechanisms. For this reason, the Social Democrats propose that the Public-Private Partnership Act should allow for a partnership in the field of so-called social activities only with non-profit organisations, which the law must clearly and unequivocally define. The argument for such a position is that this is a matter of non-profit activities that are not allowed to be carried out with more or less hidden profitable motives. We believe that this regime will, however, encourage further development of the non-profit private sector, which in the more developed countries reaches up to 5% of gross domestic product, both in the United States and elsewhere. In this regard, the Social Democrats Group insists that a specific chapter should be introduced in the law which will address the choice of a private partner, its non-profit nature, safeguards to prevent abuses in this regard and the conclusion of a public-private partnership in cases where it concerns activities in the fields of health, education, research, culture, sport, child protection and social protection. The fact is that, despite the stated leadership position between the transition members within the ten new members, our country is clearly lagging behind in the development of a culture of social capital involvement in non-profit activities. Therefore, we cannot wait another hundred years to develop naturally, but a philosophy of modern social capitalism will develop among the domestic capital owners, and at that time we will leave social activities as a prey to liberal capitalism and its philosophy of "lase faire". We want to prevent social activity from being controlled by profitable capitalist thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Testen to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a law on public and private partnership. The reasons for our support are, on the one hand, in the systematic and normative arrangements of the Institute of Public Private Partnerships and, on the other hand, in the context of European law, also in the implementation of Directive 2004/18 in the part relating to the concession of works. The adoption of this law will also give rise to another commitment made by the coalition in the coalition contract. The most important reason why we support the law on public-private partnership in the New Slovenia Group is that it is of a substantive nature. This is certainly a law that will offer a quality legal basis for faster development of Slovenia by involving domestic and foreign private capital. The content includes public-private partnerships, on the one hand, private investment in public projects and public co-financing of private projects of public interest. Public private partnership is therefore all that is not only public or in the case of public interest is not only private. The draft law provides for different forms of cooperation, namely a contractual partnership relationship that may take the form of a concession or concession partnership, and a public procurement relationship or a public procurement partnership. Each of these forms is clearly defined in the draft law. The key to sharing a public-private partnership over a concessional or public procurement partnership is to share risks. Public-private partnership shall be treated as a concessional relationship in cases where the main risk is borne by a private partner. Typically, each Contracting Party shall take the risks that are better managed. Public and private sector participation must be justified by an analysis and a project, which is also part of the definition of risks. Another important form is the status partnership. In these cases, depending on the legal nature of the relationship, the rules of concessions, sales of public property or public contracts will be applied subsidiaryly. It is also worth noting here that a status partner may be established as a limited liability company, a shareholder company or a European shareholder company. Interesting are the reasons why in most countries, in particular Western countries, they opt for a public-private partnership. It is not a major problem to finance infrastructure facilities in a traditional way, but to maintain them during their lifetime and at lower costs of this maintenance. These lower costs cannot go against the quality of maintenance. The public-private partnership model provides that the private person must maintain the infrastructure and that after the contract has expired, it must be in an appropriate maintenance condition. As far as Slovenia is concerned, the law is important, in addition to the above reasons, for either reason, because it lays down clear rules of cooperation, which are also equitable and encouraging for the private sector. Together with the public sector, the private sector will participate in the construction, maintenance and management of infrastructure, as well as in certain service areas. For Slovenia, a public-private partnership is certainly an opportunity to develop faster through private capital, as budgetary resources and the resources of local communities are limited along with debt options. Public-private partnerships will relieve public finances and create room for different other programmes to be provided by the State. The participation of private capital in the service sector will also help to boost the growth of social well-being, increase economic growth and thus increase citizens' satisfaction. Finally, it is very important that each public-private partnership also means new jobs. Slovenia has a lot of investment needs in its development plans by 2023, which, according to our Group of Members, are only feasible if we are bolder to include private investors in our plans, otherwise their implementation will move further into the future. The public-private partnership also brings some concerns and dilemmas into our environment, which according to the New Slovenia Group are often more due to the historical circumstances we are emerging from than to the actual shortcomings. Such concerns are the existence of political and other risks to private capital. We are confident that the law will create conditions and give the possibility of cooperation to all those who have capital, have ideas and will want to invest in public infrastructure and other forms of public-private partnership. Public resistance to private capital. This is mainly due to the country's long-standing attitude towards private and private capital, in particular to domestic private capital. We believe that this will necessarily change by withdrawing the country from the economy. Crediting private individuals that are usually more expensive than lending the country. This is true, but interest is an integral part of the costs which are generally much lower in the private sector. Fear of a loss of public power over the management of public tasks. This fear, in our view, is overstated if the country consistently exercises its supervisory and regulatory function. In each partnership, the State must maintain a monitoring and regulatory function and transfer the performance function to the private. Taxpayers are buying services provided by the State. Each organisation, whether private or public, must increasingly pay more attention to the situation within the market or public sphere in which it operates. The law therefore pays particular attention to the supervision of the implementation of the subject matter of public-private partnership. In such a partnership, the role of the State is particularly important in terms of the control that the State not only maintains, but even strengthens. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the expectations of the public and private sector are high in relation to the Public-Private Partnership Act. We are convinced that the renewal and modernisation of railways is not possible without a public-private partnership. Especially not in the scheduled time frame. We are also convinced that many other projects depend on this partnership. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Next, I invite my colleague Bajc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Public-private partnerships involve different forms of cooperation between the public and private sectors, namely private investment in public projects or public investment in private projects. On the basis of this definition, it is clear that in Slovenia we already have certain forms of public-private partnership governed by specific laws. In particular, I am referring to public procurement relations and concessions, which are contractual partnership relations, but this is not enough and in the Group of Members we believe that it is necessary to consider and adopt a law regulating this public-private partnership in other areas as well. The proposed Law on Public-Private Partnership is therefore a system law that will apply to cases and procedures where certain issues concerning a particular form of public-private partnership will not be otherwise defined by a specific law. From this point of view, we can talk about the subsidiarity of the proposed law, but the law plays an important role in the further development of the public-private partnership. The law will extend possible forms of cooperation between the public and private sectors in our society through systematic forms and procedures for the establishment of individual forms of partnership. As a result, it will allow private investment in public infrastructure. In particular, it is important to regulate the status partnership relations when private individuals, together with a country or local communities, establish companies with limited liability, a shareholding company or a European shareholding company. The law will therefore allow for different forms of cooperation between the private and public sectors in order to ensure positive effects both in financial and other areas of everyday life. The key issue with regard to this law is whether and when the law will have real positive effects. Perhaps it is unquestionable that such a law would have been needed years ago. According to some opinions, a large part of the highway cross could be financed from private funds and could thus significantly relieve public funds. In this way, the funds spent could be spent for other purposes, including the construction and reconstruction of state roads, which today, due to their investment in motorway infrastructure alone, are significantly undernourished. The law is therefore to be expected to have some positive effects over the long term, mainly from the point of view of rational spending of resources, since in the public sector, funds are to be spent more rationally and in particular more efficiently than the private sector does. In the opinion of certain economists, this is not entirely or at least not in all cases, but the knowledge and experience of the private sector will certainly have some positive effects. In particular, procedural provisions are important to determine how a partnership is to be undertaken, how an operator is selected from the private sector. The legal principles that will still need to be implemented consistently in the context of law enforcement play an important role. This will be particularly important when transforming existing public enterprises. The regulation of public-private relations is therefore important and necessary in order to achieve greater efficiency of the public sector, to make it more transparent and, finally, to release certain public funds for other purposes than they are now intended to. In addition to positive aspects, the scope of public procurement and concessions and all forms of partnership also pose certain risks. In particular, public procurement and, in some cases, concessions granted are known to the general public. Open and transparent procedures are the only guarantee to prevent some of the weaknesses and dangers that the law we are dealing with today is being passed. In particular, the proposed law mentions the existence of political risks, private capital, public resistance to private capital and lending to private individuals, which is usually more expensive than lending to the State. The latter will most likely compensate without difficulty for the greater efficiency of asset management and the remaining risks can be eliminated as already said transparent procurement procedures. We therefore support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, but we expect the knowledge and experience of the private sector to have an additional positive effect. However, it will be necessary to examine the whole law in detail in individual articles and pay particular attention to procedural provisions that are crucial in our opinion in the proposed law. In the future, certain articles of the law will probably need to be finalized in order to ensure that the law is clear enough and clear enough not to pose a risk to the formation of a public-private partnership in certain parts of the regulation, contrary to the principles and objectives of this law. We are confident that the law will remove the dilemmas and enquiries of the public-private partnership in areas that have been the subject of a taboo for such cooperation or action so far, so that it can also be done in areas such as areas of social activity. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider that the proposal for a law on public-private partnership is a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u12	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The proposed law is similar to the other two public procurement laws, notably the procedural law, which defines the conduct of both public and private partners in cooperation, in particular in the area of complex projects, where infrastructure in particular belongs. This type of project is characterised by complex funding and financial and legal elements are difficult to predict in detail. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that the proposal is encouraging and attractive to private investors because this private sphere will materialise state assets. The Coalition Treaty states that the assets from the sale of State property should be invested in public-private partnerships in the field of infrastructure investment. Such an extremely demanding provision of a systemic nature, which presents the Bible for the regulation of new relations or relations in attracting private capital into public-public affairs, undoubtedly opens up and offers opportunities for public-private cooperation. It will cover heavy billions and lay down new rules for games in public-private projects, i.e. private investment in public projects and public co-financing of private projects of public interest, or a combination of both in which the government or local community body will have the last or decisive word. Within the scope of 154 Articles, a contractual and status partnership will be established within the framework of the three forms of partnership, in which, in addition to the public-private partnership, concessions that have not been systematically resolved and the transformation of public enterprises will be regulated. The Concession, Status and Public Procurement Partnership, which will cover a wide range of areas in which this partnership will be established, from public and municipal services, education, health, social health and infrastructure. According to our conduct, the essence of the public-private partnership is the way to finance the project or to seek out a private partner through a public tender. The key change relates to the amount of 1.26 billion tolars for which the public sector contracting authorities will have to carry out a test and prove that they cannot carry them out in one of the forms of this partnership. We believe in the parliamentary group that the adoption of this umbrella law leads, on the one hand, to the burden of public finances and, on the other hand, to the burden or risk of private financing. The main objective of the draft law, which introduces private capital both in the financing, management, establishment, renovation, management and maintenance of public services, and the characteristics of which are long-term contracts, the sharing of risks and effects or the results of operations, is to fear in the Group of Members that such solutions are not acceptable in the context of public interest protection, particularly in the complex health and social system. We are certainly aware of the sense of privatisation, which should improve quality and price efficiency. We will, however, be obliged and committed to such measures as will safeguard the public interest and the functioning of the competent in this spirit, even though this proposal opens up different possibilities for maintaining and ensuring as much expertise and fairness as possible for all citizens. There is no doubt that the flow of fresh money is necessary. We are aware of the lack of budgetary resources and, in our opinion, we need so-called dispersed ownership, thinking that further measures of a public nature need to be protected. It is necessary to introduce such changes that will benefit all, not only the material ones. Not only in the enforcement of state property, but also in the creation and implementation of new forms of public-private partnership, we assess the need for rational and responsible conduct, while ensuring transparency, equality or non-discrimination, dialogue between the parties and supervision and appropriate sanctions. When it comes to the management of funds raised on the basis of solidarity and reciprocity [[I'm thinking about health.]] the partnership will provide incentives and nothing else, in our firm belief, because private capital invested anywhere is expected to profit, and from this point of view there is a great danger that private capital will become a health co-owner of disproportionately large amounts of social capital, i.e. direct funds from insurers, and, on the other hand, to the private in the context of the profits it expects, or to reimburse the costs invested in further action in this area, can only bring incentives to the patient and the patient. And here we have great concerns. The same applies to social protection. Let me give you two examples. In the framework of concessions, which are also covered by this law, we know the case of thyroid operations, where the waiting period is supposed to fall because we gave a private concession to operate for 130 million more than in the UKC. However, data available to all show that this is the area in which waiting periods have grown most in this year at the clinical centre in this area. This means that the matter was interesting to the contractor, it is said, to the private, and briefly pulled out the insurer, as well as the insurance company, which acted irrationally here and, in my opinion, damaged the insured in this area. However, the case in the field of social protection is the following. We grant concessions to build houses for older citizens who need institutional protection, and the result is that, for example, in a home, there is, say, Trebnje, average care for one guardian 120 thousand per month, in Rogaška Slatina, which is built on the principle of concession in the public-private sector, between the municipality and private investors, and 100 thousand more per month. This means that such construction will be reserved only for the rich and will quickly be too much of this capacity, because the rich are not enough to pay for it, or will be damaged municipalities that will be forced into such homes, because there will be no other place to send their own guards who are not able to pay them and will pay a disproportionately high cost to protect such a citizen and thus cover the problem, but for more expensive money, meaning, of course, a blow to the municipalities or a transfer of profits that someone is supposed to make by investing in this area. As a private person, it will be paid by a security guard, an insured person, a citizen, or a congregation. It is both bad and in these two areas, I propose that we consider solutions to be such as to ensure that public interest is fully protected on the one hand and, on the other hand, take into account the harsh fact that most citizens cannot pay for a service partnership that is significantly more expensive, but that they are of vital importance and cannot live normally without them, nor can they die in a human way when it comes that far. We will support this law as a good basis for further consideration, but I expect that we will all together find sufficient strength and knowledge, as well as responsibilities, to protect solutions in areas of public interest in the field of health and social protection in a way that will make the wolf and the goat a whole, that we will move forward in the acquisition of private resources for the development of the country and society, but with these very necessary warnings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Among us I welcome young visitors and visitors who have joined us in the tribune in the meantime, welcome to the Slovenian temple of democracy. I now give the floor to my colleague Dr. Lahovnik, who was unable to present his position earlier because he was stuck in a car accident. At first glance, I find that nothing is serious. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the regulation of this area, we support the public-private partnership and we believe that it is right that this, as I said, is regulated by law. In doing so, we stress in particular the two pillars of the reason. Public finances are under strain by involving the private sector in the financing of major development projects. Another reason is that good business practices are also transferred from the public to the private sector, from the private sector to the public sector, and this also increases the efficiency of the so-called public sector in a broader sense. Of course, this law also has a number of shortcomings, and from this point of view it is very good that we have a general debate today. For the first time, it must be stressed that, although the law is supposed to be systemic and open, it is limited to some of the largest material infrastructure projects. There's not enough talk about some other areas. I also agree with some of the predecessors from other parliamentary groups, although they belong to the so-called so-called development partnership, they have rightly pointed out some of the dilemmas that this law brings. The issues of education, education, health care remain open. In these areas, of course, things remain open. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we note, of course, that if these areas are to be regulated, they must be regulated in an open and systematic manner. It's the worst thing to do when things are being handled inconclusively. The second point to be pointed out is the fact that the law sets the threshold of EUR 5 million and almost EUR 300,000 for the contracting authority to verify that a specific project can be financed in one of the forms of public-private partnership. I don't know, I don't know exactly how you got into this amount in the so-called partnership. I don't know about this, and the question is, what is the criteria now? If it is a criterion for the prosperity of the public-private partnership, then you do not really need such limits. If it is a criterion for everything to be limited, but only to large infrastructure projects, then I am asked whether we really need a special law to do so and whether it is right that this law then has an address, such as a name. Then we need to talk about a public-private partnership for large infrastructure projects, if we are consistent. And some have rightly warned me that there are other areas, education, health, education. I am concerned that these matters are not discussed in sufficient detail and that we do not pour pure wine, but how in these areas. That's not good, and I specifically warn you about that. The next point I would like to draw attention to is the issue of tax and institutional aspects which are not adequately addressed in this proposal. For example, the law does not regulate the transfer of these business and financial models from the private to the public sector. I know that this is often difficult to regulate legally, and this can also be a major challenge. Thus, in essence, we are talking only about financing arrangements and, as I have said, major infrastructure projects. The law is obviously a kind of compromise, it creates the impression that in Slovenia we now have a public-private partnership, there is a lot to talk about, and the fact is that it is primarily aimed at larger infrastructure projects, where there are a lot of big questions. We know what happened in Great Britain when this project was carried out on a railway case where there was a major disorder, not to say chaos in this area. We know what happened in the field of energy in the United States of America in California when there was a major involvement of the private sector in these profitable large infrastructure projects. This should also be borne in mind that the private sector always has the motive to draw as much of the free cash flow as possible from these profitable projects into private hands. Its motive is to clean profits, depreciation, long-term reservations in some way draw them out of these projects and allocate them to their other private investments. It is therefore necessary to be careful with these projects. As I said, most of all, I wonder why this threshold is set, on the one hand, I do not understand it, and I hope that someone will further explain why it is not larger or smaller at the end stage, and in particular how regulation will now be ensured. If the private sector is involved, I will now say, in principle, with some share in some large infrastructure project, apart from the country, the question simply arises whether the state will not only co-finance when the free cash flow is shared, but will be shared without adequate control. In what way will these public supervisors now provide public interest in sharing the possible created free cash flow resulting from these infrastructure projects, and this is not just the case. We know that these various energy transport projects also bring considerable free cash flows. That leaves some open questions. We are pleased that we can talk about a public-private partnership or some ambition of a political group to open up this issue. However, this marriage ground that we have before us is still underthinking at this point. However, as I have said, I expect and expect that it will be improved sufficiently in future to represent a solid start in this area. We will therefore support in the Liberal Democracy Group that the law is suitable for further consideration, of course counting that this time a coalition or partnership or whatever it is, but more receptive to some of the professional arguments that we will have in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We believe and believe that we are all aware that this area is of the utmost importance, that it touches all citizens and citizens, and that in this respect it is necessary to take into account the arguments of all, not only those in power, but also those who are in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! When I first flew over this law, or really superficially, I felt that it did not interfere with the field of nonprofit activities. I also mistakenly thought that it was only investments, but not activities. All of this is covered by this law. In its opening statement, Mrs Breda Pečan raised significant concerns from the Social Democrats, and it was interesting to listen to all the other explanations of the groups of Members, and at least one of them in addition to the Social Democrats touched on the areas of so-called non-profit activities. If I somehow focus primarily on health care, let me say that we have very poor experience in the past in the award of concessions. This law is intended to become a statutory law and then to regulate by means of sectoral laws, by means of sub-legislative acts, the granting of health concessions or the so-called later public-private partnership. So far, this has been done fairly well. Some were awarded concessions without an invitation to tender, only at their request. If I only define myself to the primary level of health care, I would say that it also depends on which local community they wanted to obtain a private health concession. That's the way it was. Some got it. Others didn't get it. The arguments that some have been awarded concessions, while others have not, are not easy to find, and this area certainly needs to be regulated. Above all, the law should also say a little more about concessions that have already been granted. In the field of health, these are essentially permanent concessions, cancellations are almost impossible by the concessionaire, although the concessionaire can do so, but it is not in his interest. In fact, Slovenia must remain a social and social justice state with greater competitiveness. Social justice means equal opportunities for all citizens to access basic resources that provide quality of life. Social justice also means ensuring prosperity and security for those who have failed in this game of life and who are in need of assistance. Of course, this aid cannot provide them with a market; it cannot provide them with private capital, especially in implementation, perhaps in investments. But I still believe or am convinced that capital where there is no profit or other benefits, private capital there does not find a way or is not interested in doing so. In view of the experience in the social field, as we have also asked Minister Drobnič on the criteria for the award of concessions for the construction of individual homes for the protection of adults in the past months, we can be concerned on the basis of the answers and on the basis of the facts we know. At least I'm personally concerned, and all this information is pointing me to extra caution in adopting this law. So the law that we are considering today has reached out to an area where relations need to be regulated, but I am sure that thorough work is needed, particularly in the field of so-called non-profit activities. It would therefore be good if, in the field of so-called social activities, partnership could only be possible with non-profit organisations, with non-profit organisations, which we also define, even in this law, which are non-profit organisations. The argument for such a position is that this is a matter of non-profit activities which are not allowed to be carried out with profitable motives. I believe that this regime will, however, encourage the development of the non-profit private sector. And that this will not be heard as a socialist password, let me say that this is what countries that sometimes or you are setting an example for us, for example, the United States of America, who want to regulate this in this area in a non-profit way or in action. So, the law is a good start, as I might call it, but the law, as it is now written, has a lot of shortcomings and needs to be eliminated in the next stages of the adoption or treatment of the law, otherwise the law will not be acceptable to me personally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Personally, like my colleagues, I support the idea of a public-private partnership and a proposal for a law, by sincerely wishing that this would not only be the law of great expectations and hopes, but also illusions, but that in fact, in the near future, when the law is adopted, we would also see positive results. The fact is that without exaggeration we can say that public-private partnership is somehow a global trend, indeed more at many international conferences than in practice, but it is certainly a matter that gives a chance for faster, more coherent development, but of course it also carries with it, as it is also pointed out in the material and also in the debate, risks. Therefore, in my debate, I will limit in particular to some practical questions on how to improve, on the one hand, to supplement the law, to actually be physical, to be feasible, to give results, and what then after the adoption of the law, or during the adoption of the law, to prepare and organise in the country, so that the actual public-private partnership will be as alive as possible - as some of it has already been so far, could have been called otherwise - and to give results as well and to avoid potential risks. I personally believe and see opportunities and opportunities in the field of infrastructure, in particular economic infrastructure, and here I agree with colleagues who say that we have already been very late here and that it is a pity that we have not already had legislation and as well as more practice in this area, from transport infrastructure, particularly in the field of certain parts of energy and also some municipal activities and so on. There are also some economic activities that are of this nature by their content and by their influence to directly call for a public-private partnership. I'm going to point out one example, that's the area of tourism. We know that tourism is an activity that is not only an extremely entrepreneurial activity, but it is an activity that affects a range of other economic activities, although they are often the basic carriers of the restaurant, health resorts, cableways and similar organisations. It affects trade, industry, agriculture, rural development and so on, of course, has a favourable impact on the development of local communities, on more coherent regional development. Tourism is known to be the most important activity in terms of the transfer of income from more developed areas to less visible areas, where there are, as a rule, many tourist destinations, which are very quality and increasingly attractive in less developed areas. And in this area, it would be useful to have more projects through a public-private partnership to develop and encourage them. We have some of these cases in Slovenia, where from the resources of the country, local communities and, of course, private, profitable organisations, businesses, such projects have already been implemented. As a rule, the best results in tourism have been achieved and I think that in the future it would be precisely in this area of tourism to make even more, on the one hand, both the state and the representative of an important part of the public sector and, of course, individual companies that can benefit from the development of tourism and generate income in it. And now questions of a practical nature, two, three would point out. I understand that this law is procedural and procedures need to be drawn up, but I am missing somehow in this comparative analysis with other countries and also with the European Union a few more economic comparisons, a few more economic analyses, a display of positive cases and positive practices from other countries; otherwise, we see that the arrangements are also very different, very written, so to speak, indicating the complexity and difficulties of this problem. However, these economic analyses and these cases would be very useful then probably only for the finalisation of the law, the sub-legislative acts and, above all, for implementation. Secondly, what I would like to stress is that the condition for the law to be brought to life and that there will be, in fact, projects and the results of the public-private partnership, which will be extremely difficult for good organisation, the management of the public-private partnership, in particular in the field of the country, in the government. Minimumly, what is envisaged will be a specific department, similar to in some other countries, for this purpose within the Ministry of Finance, which is right, but I do not think that this is enough, and that it is necessary to consider that at least individual experts, specialists or services in those ministries where we can most expect from a public-private partnership: from the Ministry of Transport, the economy and perhaps some other activities. It will be very important to identify or register possible projects, especially potential private sector partners, investors and then co-owners, or depending on the form chosen for public-private partnership, project planning, advice and other assistance, in particular in the initial phase. And the third and last point, which I would like to stress, will, of course, also need to be encouraged by the country, particularly in the initial phase. That's not gonna work without it. This, both at national level and at local and future levels, also at regional level and thus through financial mechanisms, starting with the budget, including tax policy. Furthermore, the use of funds for these purposes, the European Union's funds, the involvement of banks in co-financing and the promotion of such projects, as well as the involvement of others. And, finally, another sentence. For a public-private partnership, for its practical operation, I think it will also be very important to further accelerate the privatisation of individual sectors and the withdrawal of the country from the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The law we have today at first reading on the bench seems to me to be a positive story and I strongly support it, for simple reasons. I think he's very welcome to everyone, as my predecessor explained today, but I think it's too late. I think we have already missed some of these good Slovenian stories if we had this law earlier, both for the country and for the local communities and regions, I am deeply convinced of this, but it is never too late. This time, too, it will be good, because this synergy, which can be combined by both financial, human and other salaries, is certainly evidence in those cases where this has happened, which are more than positive. The fact is that public finances do not come, they cannot do all the things that congregations, regions and countries want. And here this additional financial aspect is extremely welcome. The dilemma is whether building a highway cross from public finances, good or bad, is probably questionable. The Croats made him different, we made him different. Opinions are different. In my opinion, maybe this money could be earmarked for something else, even more important, because it would probably be easier to get an investor for the highway cross in Slovenia. But well, the story is like that, in 2008 it will end and now crying for back is inconsequential and pointless. But from here on, I see a number of new challenges that Slovenia needs, certainly in the field of energy, which is important and probably interesting both for foreign investors and domestic investors, because energy is a commodity that is an excellently sold, well-marketed and always lacking in the Slovenian space. It is therefore likely that the challenge for the government and this partnership will be very interesting for some new, additional private capital synergies. Ecology, a very important area. Slovenia must complete cleaning facilities in Slovenia, Slovenian municipalities and regions by 2015, 2016 in accordance with the European Directive. This will certainly be a major challenge. With common resources, this is probably easier than just public finances. Tourism, the economy, these things are always very relevant, because we know that certain centres, which may be less well known in the Slovenian space, cannot be managed by both the owners of these buildings and the owners of the land and the local communities themselves. If they find a private partner, they may be able to bring some smaller tourist centers that are important to the congregations and regions to a better level. In short, there's a whole bunch of positive arguments. Not to mention the residential area, not to mention some others that are actually already going on. In this I see great opportunities for the municipalities, for those smaller projects that we ourselves, along with these resources we receive from the country, and we cannot afford our own resources. And this partnership is already at the country level, at the level of local communities, at the level of local communities. And this synergy if the state brings together local communities, how good it would be to combine this synergy with private capital. And these new societies, which will be set up in one way or another, will bring new values, bring personnel, bring money, bring rationality, greater economy and, above all, faster development in the local community and the country as a whole. This seems very encouraging, good and positive and such a law I am pleased to support, and I am sure that we will also add something in future, which is possible here and there, and I am sure that this is in the best interest of all the projects that are ahead of us in Slovenia, especially the greater development and well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Apparently, it's more lively on the stand today than it is in our hall. I welcome a new group of visitors and visitors. Welcome to the Slovenian Parliament! However, we are continuing the general debate, and since there are some colleagues and colleagues missing, it is already the turn of the Member of the Mag. Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! And let me do it again, and I will honor those who observe us from the rostrums in this meeting room! It is not essential for me to define "for" or "against" at the general level with regard to the proposed law, because the proposed law has already received sufficiently clear general support from our parliamentary group's point of view. However, I would like to discuss this work, which has also been highlighted in the opinion of the Group of Members and is the subject of critical reflections by the Social Democrats on the public-private partnership. This is the area of public-private partnership in social activities. I would like to touch only one very small segment of social activities myself, because for a long time, with particular attention, I have been monitoring the situation in the work of NGOs and, since the public-private partnership in social activities is mainly aimed at promoting this partnership with NGOs, allow me to make some comments. Not only us, but also elsewhere, the definition of non-governmental organisations does not overlap fully and the definition from case to case may vary. When I asked the Minister of Public Administration about the question in the Member State, he told me, in fact, about NGOs, that the definition and legal status of NGOs was more or less determined by the adopted law on societies. However, the fact is that at that time the word also applied to the cooperation agreement between NGOs and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and it was promised that this agreement would be submitted to the government by the end of August and then forwarded to NGOs for discussion. Why am I giving this a hard time? Because there are increasing signals that there are problems in the practice of financing NGOs and that public-private partnerships are really important for this part where the government, where public funds through various forms of public service are no longer so interesting, but NGOs are supposed to enter these places, then clearing up these relations is essential and it is essential for me to see what is considered to be non-governmental organisations. It is therefore very important to me what the government will say about the cooperation agreement between NGOs and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This draft is already in 2004 and has not yet been defined, nor has it yet adopted a strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to cooperate with non-governmental organisations, although it is stated in this strategy that it is not the intention of the Government to direct the content of the activities of NGOs, but to intervene precisely in this part of how the government should regulate financing and cooperation with non-governmental organisations. I am afraid that there will be considerable tension or disalignment between the government and the non-governmental sector, because, if I refer again to Minister Virant's words now, the proportion of funds that NGOs derive from government funds, compared to other European countries for Slovenia, is expected to be high there for about 30% of NGOs to receive from the budget. I would not start this problem if I did not, for example, know the answers or answers of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to some NGOs. These answers, however, show that the Ministry is interfering precisely with what the government says is not its purpose. Rather, NGOs define the content of their activities on their own. When these things are clearer when legal frameworks are put in place or at least some cooperation agreement, it will be clearer to me whether the specific criteria for public and private partnership in health, education, research activities, culture, child protection and social protection are also set out as Social Democrats are supposed to be. In view of the fact that all these funds carried out by non-governmental organisations and other non-profit legal entities would in fact be returned to their activities and not to the activities of the founder. Because the Society Act now allows the founders of local communities, that is, those who already have the right to decide on the allocation of public funds. So there are still a lot of open questions for me at this level that decide exactly what this public-private partnership should be with the non-governmental sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolić has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Hello, my dear. I also support the proposal for a law on public-private partnership. I also imagine that this is just a roof law that is supposed to systematically regulate cooperation between the public and private sectors. In any event, the law will only be able to be assessed positively after a while if it has a positive effect in practice. I believe that the positive effects will certainly be positive if this law helps to relieve public resources on the one hand, but I imagine that, on the other hand, there will also be positive effects, if this also means any reallocation of these public funds in the territory or in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Since I would like to add, at least thinking can go in this direction so that this law can also greatly contribute to coherent regional development. We must be realistic and also say where the public interest in investment will be - certainly the most in the developed area of Slovenia. We must also be realistic and say that where there is a public infrastructure or there is not at all, it is unlikely that at this first stage you will gain a private partnership to invest in an infrastructure, or a larger project where public sector and private partnership should invest in financial resources. This means that with this law, as I mentioned earlier, we will redistribute these public funds where we will allow the conditions to attract the participation of public-private partners in the most underdeveloped areas of Slovenia. I would also like to mention that we certainly need to regulate the rest of the legislation accordingly. In fact, some projects, including in local communities, have already been implemented through the public-private partnership system. Why did I mention the Constitution, the law? Some of you may recall that we were a few years ago or that the law was passed, how to arrange, say, according to European rules of the parking lot for trucks in Slovenia. Rather, the European Directive requires that these parking spaces be regulated in accordance with all standards and regulations. I know or would be involved with one or, in particular, our congregation, which was already a typical example of public private partnership: it invested local communities, it invested, it invested private investors, and it built one regional parking lot. However, the point is that the legislator who prescribed or still prescribes that if the car carrier wants to obtain a licence, it must also have this arranged, in fact, that matters are only prolonged at the pressure of motorists. I would like to point out that it is very important that we also know the others, from the point of view of legislation, to adapt the laws to this. And it will not be, as in this case, that this good cooperation of the public-private partnership has also been realized, but yet I now find that some car carriers park in some private parking spaces that do not comply with the regulations - there is no [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And so on. [[...]] I speak from the point of view of legislation, which was correct, from the point of view of environmental protection, that this must be regulated. It is right, given that there is a general debate today, that such practical examples should also indicate where the traps may be, or where or what else might need to be included in this law. However, I am optimistic, and I am also sure that this is a good basis for us to be doing much in our country, on the basis of partnership, private and public sector cooperation in the future. True, we must forget what was in the past or what was not, we had great opportunities, where many of the great projects could be carried out on the basis of a similar law, and we did not. However, we certainly have important projects ahead of us, which could also be implemented on the basis of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Today, we have obviously concluded a close partnership with the speed of the debate, as we are moving with incredible haste on the debate paper. Believe it or not, Mr. Germich is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would somehow support the idea of introducing a public-private partnership, because the idea itself brings a lot of positive benefits in the basic sense, since attracting additional resources in the implementation of public projects and thus decommissioning public finances is certainly a way to improve the quality of public life or the lives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I would limit myself here to two content, the first substance is that it would certainly be necessary to consider the threshold or a certain limit on which interest in private, i.e. the sector involved in the public interest, will need to be assessed. And here I'm wondering, what is the criteria for designing this threshold? For when we compare the size of the municipal budgets of local communities, we can see that local communities, especially smaller communities, because fragmentation is running and moving on, so that most local communities will not actually reach this threshold in this respect, even if they invest the entire annual budgets. Therefore, I think it makes sense whether it is a matter of examining whether this is really about those major infrastructure projects that will require really mega-manic, at least from the point of view of local communities, investment and the required resources, or whether this is an arbitrary number and a lack of attention aimed primarily at excluding the local public-private partnership from this point of view. Secondly, what I would like to say, but it has already been mentioned several times today, is an area that is very important and is part of social activities. I would only define myself in the field of health. Much has already been said today that the principle of transparency will be very important to ensure that open procedures are also ensured by this law. Of course, in the area of health, I must say the opposite, that we have witnessed very different behaviour in the past period, i.e. non-transparentness and not open procedures in granting concessions as one of the forms of public-private partnership. And here it is very important, here we will talk about not only talking about investment inputs in public-private partnership, but above all in awarding concessions we will talk about awarding concessions for the implementation of programmes. So for the implementation of the programmes that represent, at least if we look at the cartridges in the entire healthcare package, we see that they are substantially disproportionate. If we look at investments on the one hand and provide services on the other hand, this is a major dispersion that has been moved to the service side. And when we talk about this, it is very good to move back in memory of the Minister's statement, which says that, of course, the introduction of private people into basic health care and the introduction of free doctors, specialists are supposed to lead to the reduction of waiting types, but of course it is very important to continue this assessment, which speaks of the fact that the services to be carried out in this way are likely to become slightly more expensive. Of course, the question now is, where will this service be paid from? If this goes as has been pointed out here today, at the expense of additional payments from the pockets of citizens and citizens, of course, then it would be necessary to be very, very careful here. For this means that the award of concessions will significantly increase the burden on those who will benefit from the services on the basis of the concessions granted. We already have here, I would say, also negative experiences, because here it is written that the public-private partnership world will be composed of independent experts. I'd like to draw attention here to the health field. We have a very, very specific case where today's minister's advisor is also one of the first cases to withdraw the scope of the programme from the clinical centre by concession. Here, of course, the question is whether we are talking about making the system more efficient. Why, given that the number of doctors does not increase, why are we not able to implement programmes within public institutions under this programme, with this number of health personnel? Of course, here it is necessary to ask whether efficiency is linked to capital gains and if capital gains are a public interest. These dilemmas will need to be discussed when we discuss how to introduce public-private partnerships in health. This becomes even more important when we assess that we do not have a national healthcare programme, that there is no defined basic health network and, of course, there are no clear objectives defined in this way, how the public-private partnership in this area will increase efficiency with equal accessibility and, of course, quality guaranteed. Nothing has been said here today and in the past period about how the quality of the delivery of health services in the implementation of the public-private partnership will be ensured. Will the reduction of waiting lines really only be the result of awarding concessions under the public programme, or could activities moderated in ensuring increased efficiency, even through the existing system? Given that we have different gears here on what the future fate of public health in Slovenia should be, of course, we also have civil movements about what they say that these issues need to be discussed more deeply and that this cannot be an unconceptual, partial solution. Additional resources are required in the healthcare system. Of course, it is necessary to ask whether granting concessions will make this conditional on paying more from our own pockets for the same level of health services tomorrow. Therefore, it seems to me that we should also very clearly define individual policies in the areas that will have a very significant impact on the quality of life of citizens and citizens today when we adopt a procedural law on the introduction of public-private partnerships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Sok is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. So, I see this is going very fast today. Parliamentary groups have announced a lot of time and I have expected a lively debate in this law. This is a new area of legal regulation that has not been regulated in the Republic of Slovenia until now. Otherwise, the way to co-finance the construction of infrastructure facilities, as well as the service sector abroad, is more or less well known. I don't want to repeat some of my speakers, but in fact it's a real shame that we haven't arranged this in a long time, at least for one of the areas, it's the construction of Slovenian highways, where it would be very good. And I am sure that through such a way of financing we would have a highway cross built in Slovenia today, and so after ten years we can still see that this is not the case and that we are still suffocating in traffic. There has been a lot of criticism in the past, mainly by Mr Cwickl, who is not here now, about the country's indebtedness or more critical of the fact that the country is providing guarantees for borrowing credits primarily for the construction of Slovenian motorways. This is clearly the case in the future in the field of rail infrastructure. Because if we want to update this rail network, we will need to provide a large number of billions, not Slovenian tolls, but billions of euros, to improve this rail infrastructure. On the one hand, the country provides guarantees for borrowing credits, but we must recognise that the budget deficit in the share of gross social product is being reduced at the same time. And so according to the 2007 projects, this deficit is planned to be 76 billion, a percentage of slightly more than 1%, more precisely 1.01%. As early as 2008, this share was expected to fall below 1% in the gross social product deficit. And it is obvious that such legislation as we are adopting today will play a decisive role in this. However, since it is not only the area of infrastructure construction but also the area of service activity, I would also like to touch a bit on the area which, before me, is the principles of colleague Germič, which we were able to follow in Odessa last night - so how to regulate this area in the provision of health services. It's two different concepts. As we understood last night, the former Minister of Health, Kebra, as well as my predecessor, was actually supposed to encourage greater private access to the health care network following their claim. Of course, I can't imagine with what arguments, why these services should be encouraged, but in fact, when it comes to the fact that - as represented by this law - the country no longer buys funds in this structure, because this is not necessary, but private people buy resources for work themselves and the country pays for services. Personally and in New Slovenia we also think that if a private person buys funds for work, then of course he treats these funds substantially differently. I hope to say that it is more cost-effective, more careful of them than if these funds were purchased by the state. For this reason, of course, I cannot agree to this explanation and the thesis that by entering more privacy into the health network this area would be encouraged. There's no real reason. There's no argument for that. However, the country continues to exercise its regulatory function. And if I tell you one more thing: last year, as a doctor, a doctor was selected not from the private health network, but a private woman - specifically, Mrs Primožič from the municipality of Gorišnica, who received the greatest support for her work in the public vote. Thus, to claim that the entry of private individuals into the health service network would worsen in order to encourage, that is, respected colleagues, pure demagogies and, in fact, convincing in some wrong direction. I am sure that such regulation would actually improve in this area of service, so that it would also be valued and also become much more transparent, transparent in its operation in such an organisational scheme. So spreading some fear of this is really irrelevant. This law will, in our opinion, also accelerate the construction of Slovenian municipal infrastructure, as I have already established the principles. In particular, we are thinking about road infrastructure here, but unfortunately at the moment it is so that we have already built something on this highway cross on the whole of Slovenia and it is virtually impossible to expect a great result in this area at this point. The only highway that would still be possible through such a financing system, and which is likely to be built in this way, is a freeway. As you know, our neighbouring Croats have led this road through such a financing system to the border crossing, is in fact already to Macla in the final implementation phase, and then on the entire route from Istanbul to Western Europe will once again become a narrow throat between Maribor and Gruškov. Otherwise, this part is supposed to be saved, but 2013 is still very far away, and I am sure that the people living on this road cannot wait for this problem to be resolved by 2013 and this country does not have the right to keep them in such a situation as it is today. Sometimes they predicted the closures of this overloaded road, and I'm sure that if in these summer months people actually decided to close this road so that there would be a column in these traffic spikes, I hope to say, to Gradz. This road is so busy that those who live there are practically unable to cross this road without risking their lives. And I only see the solution at this point in a financing model where the same partners who co-financed it in neighbouring Croatia could also co-finance in the Republic of Slovenia, and in this way this FYR highway would be built as soon as possible. Otherwise, as our fellow Member Testen has already said on behalf of our group, we will be happy to support this law, we have waited for it for a long time, even before we were an opposition party, we have repeatedly warned that Slovenia needs such a law. Well, thanks to the Minister of Finance and his team, we have now reached this law and only hope that this law will be passed as soon as possible and that it will also give the results that are expected of it. Now the amount of EUR 5.2 million, that was somehow set out why. I think that a number has been set because it has to be drawn somewhere, and any number would probably be written, there would probably be different arguments, why not more, why not less, why not less, why exactly so much, but I understand that the proposaler with some number to come and that this would be a thing that can be changed with the right argument, either up or down if someone seems to be too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u29	Ms Breda Pecan is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to explain something about the discussions that we have heard today regarding the Law on Public-Private Partnerships. First, I believe that it is necessary to know how the public sector works, with particular emphasis, I am speaking to the municipalities, because this law will certainly be most used by the right municipalities. This is the limit of EUR 5 million when it is necessary for the contracting authority to seek a private partner or to try to find a private partner. I think that this limit is reasonably set because it is a kind of order, forcing that when so many public funds are used, such as, say, a billion 210 million tolars around, it is necessary to find the possibility of including a private partner in the investment. This relieves pressure on the use of public funds and allows for more investment and faster development of the public sector. That's one thing. So this isn't about putting the borders down, there's a line up. It is said that a private partner can also be sought from any other, less than €5 million. This is a matter of ability, the ability of an individual in the public sector, whether he is ready and able at all to prepare all the documentation that is necessary, because this is difficult, I do not avoid that this is the most difficult, and that the Ministry of Finance in this new sector should, in fact, take care of at least at the beginning of this new sector, to help those entities looking for private partners, so that we can be operationally trained and that we will know how to find a private partner in other EU countries or in Slovenia. Secondly, I would also like to say this: when we are talking about a public-private partnership in the field of health or other social activities, I have also said this in my presentation of the Group's position, it is necessary to know that the basic condition is that the private partner is non-profit and that is the essence of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. If we want Slovenia to develop faster, we have very few options. Budget resources are such as, the possibilities of indebtedness are no longer very high, and I also think that no one is most inclined to over-indebted. As the only real option, I see a public and private partnership. Public and private partnership in all forms from building infrastructure to service activities, at both national and local levels. Much has been said today about these service areas, about health care and less about other forms. I often find it very difficult to ask the question of health, why only the best doctors decide on the concessional form of action in the health sector. This question has been asked many times and I have not yet received the right answer despite the huge debates, but I do not think that this claim or this consideration applies only to health, that it also applies to some other areas. As far as contracts are concerned and control is concerned, I think it is primarily the task of this law to ensure, or to provide, such a starting point, that contracts can be drawn up, which will be firmly binding in addition to the private partner. And the other thing. I think it is important here to regulate, some other laws that still have to be adopted so that this can be properly implemented and control itself. I'm afraid there's an area here or an area where we can kick. Previously, many cases have been listed around the world, as well as in Slovenia we have quite a few, also negative, regarding this public and private partnership in the forms we had. I don't think these cases can be a starting point for us to hesitate as far as this approach is concerned. Slovenia has the only right, a better opportunity for faster development, faster than we have today, only in my opinion in the partnership between the public and private sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Instead of Dr Lakhovnik, Mr Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and representatives of the government! I also think that this Institute of Public-Private Partnership is one of the welcome opportunities that can solve many of the problems we have in Slovenia. However, I do not see this debate in essence only in this narrow sense, related to the lack of finance or the inability of the public treasury to finance everything, but it seems to me that certain projects are such that they are structurally calling for the participation of the public sector and, on the other hand, of the private sector. I am also not sure that it is necessary to accept this restriction, which is pointed out by colleague Pecanov, that it is always necessary for this partner to be of a non-profit character or motive in the end. This is true in spite of all of this, since, for the last time, anyone will invest in money if we talk about it, he will surely want to benefit from it. Otherwise, I think we're counting on the wrong instruments. But I have come to this debate in particular, because I am asking some questions, and I suppose we can get answers from the next reading, and it is not necessary that at this point in time, because such a debate allows us to upgrade, degrade and give them new opportunities through the parliamentary procedure. The proposal, as it is now set with these limitations, makes it impossible, in my opinion, to resolve financially less demanding projects and structurally appropriate to this institution. I'll limit myself to, say, culture. There are virtually not many projects that could be designed to have such a financial structure. For example, years ago we could not solve the problem of financing VIBA film or these film studios and these activities. To me, this, I will say, is an ideal project where the public interest, defined in these national programmes of cinema and NKP, is mixed on one hand, and, on the other hand, I will also say, the interest of people, that they possibly deserve something with contributions to the film. The cross is practically ideal, but this thing is half done and it can probably develop further with the help of this form. This is certainly not dependent on the Ministry of Finance, but mainly on the flexibility of people working at the Ministry of Culture. The second problem that the Ministry of Culture is missing and is structurally absolute, I think, appropriate if this restriction were to fall, is the public interest in the field of inheritance. At this point, we are following up on some controversy between ministers, which is in the process of coordinating the proposal for a law on the protection of heritage and possible new sources for financing this heritage. The Ministry of Culture there is proposing some new benefits that would actually burden, say, hospitality, banks, certain service activities. I don't know if this is going to work out or not, but look, structurally it is that heritage is somehow protected either by municipal or state decrees always in the public interest. As a rule, the vast majority of the building’s heritage is privately owned if we limit ourselves to this. Officials are financially distinctly qualified. The point, I'll say, is to revitalize heritage is not only to get the old image back, but also to get new functions. With some more flexible approach that this institution could allow, I suppose we could be able to solve these problems more easily. And I ask you if within the Ministry you are thinking about this, if it is possible to develop a subsystem that is not so connected to this large infrastructure that we are all aiming at, but also to these projects that can practically represent a financial contribution there of 50, 60 million dollars, and it goes to billions. In this way, in fact and through the reorganisation of funds, we could leave sometimes a rather problematic subsidy to these reforms and encourage the owners of heritage, the founders of reconstruction and the custodian of public interest to deal more effectively with it. This is my question whether there are opportunities within this institute for, as I have said, structurally suitable problems, and financially perhaps in terms of people who are turning large numbers, less difficult projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The public-private partnership, as we have already received here in this building or in this room, we have known a response from our mayors for quite some time, but we have not actually talked about it as a public-private partnership, but it has been some other form of public-private integration. I personally see in the public-private partnership an incentive, a developmental stimulus in particular at local level and assistance or an incentive at the state level in large projects, where it is simply not a country, but a local community cannot afford the pace of development that time dictates. I was personally present at a convention where we discussed tourism and where I also had a great desire for the final possibility of applying the effects offered by the public-private partnership. I must say, it was of great interest. Why tourism? Maybe because tourism has the best effects with as much synergy as possible between different industries and different factors. That is why tourism, as Mr Ferri Horvat has already said before me, is one of the industries where this public-private partnership is likely to be quite large. Of course, I think that the functioning of this public-private partnership is very crucial to me, as already mentioned in the introduction, namely the principle of equality, transparency, competition, balance. In short, if these principles are respected and respected in the negotiation, then there is not as much fear as they came from some sides in this debate. It is clear, however, that everyone, this applies to the private and social sector at the final stage, which invests in a project, wants or requires some profit; even if we put funds into the bank, we expect some effect from it. Therefore, thinking that this profitability would be eliminated is not real. However, I think it is necessary to put in place such a way that this profitability is within reasonable limits. These limits are reasonable, but it would be difficult to say how much this should actually be, but this is a key factor for me for the private sector to decide on investment and to receive some reasonable compensation for this contribution. Of course, we must not forget that, after all, this partnership is that the other party must also be compensated for its role, which means that it should ensure a partnership. And this thing I think is new to us and we don't have enough experience here to say, that's exactly what it is. And I expect that some good practice will be established in this area and that in the first phase that ministry service will perform some first filter. It will also bring together all the specificities and I expect this service to pass this good practice on to the law and to the changes of the law, I don't know, maybe to some sub-legal acts, in short, that this will be fulfilled in the implementation process in such a form that public-private partnership and more or less we won't detect any novelty or new things, but that this will be avoided as all the other forms that we already know today. In fact, I expect that in the future we will talk a lot about this law and about additional things about this law, and together we will create some good business practice, which will then lead to a public-private partnership being a routine instrument, which, I am sure, will ensure greater development at both local and national level. We all know that the funds are very limited on both levels. This is some practice that is probably well known abroad. Foreign was used to capitalism. We have this novelty for about 15 years, and we do not have so much experience with it, so there is probably a little more fear in this area, but I am sure that we will put the matter together on the right footing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Secretary of State if he wants?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for your suggestions, your views, your opinions on the Law on Public-Private Partnership. The government considers or maintains that this law actually represents the following advantages: that the quality of services improves, that private investment will eliminate bottlenecks in the service delivery process, and thus ensure better quality of services, new services, and that all of this will be addressed to consumers and meeting the needs of consumers. Furthermore, the government considers that costs are being reduced over the long term and also because of the increased competition price of these services, which means greater accessibility of these services to consumers and better quality of life. It is ensured because of the greater professionalism and equipment of work, productivity in the economy and outside the economy and also cost efficiency, and the government believes that this will have a positive impact on the environment. In view of the general debate, and I think that there will also be a great deal of time in the future for us to define definitively and precisely certain positions or to identify ourselves to certain positions, opinions and initiatives, I would like to place here some emphasis on some of the substantive issues that have been referred to or defined by Members and Members here. First, when we talk about the limit value, the limit of EUR 5.2 million. The government has set this threshold here on the basis of the border applicable in the European Union for compulsory publication in the European Communities' bulletin. This means that this mandatory testing is known by few European countries, regardless of whether such testing is carried out by the United Kingdom, but the system is designed as such, each project is subject to a specific assessment and from this point of view this limit is defined as mandatory for some. It is here that the public partner in the contracts must be responsible for monitoring and efficient use of funds. In this way, despite the fact that each project is unique, the whole public-private partnership system can work best in practice. With regard to social activities, the Government or the proposer carefully weighed the different options, namely whether to limit itself to or extend to the public sector only here. In view of current practice and the most frequent forms of public and private sector, which have been concluded in the field of social activities, such as the Health Act, which already allows concessions, the proposed option has been decided. After all, according to the data collected under the Law on Medical Activity, 1779 concessions have already been granted today, of which 1115 are in health care. Of these, the majority, 849 in basic health care, 69 in pharmacy activities and 197 in specialist activities. Just as a large number of concessions awarded here have encouraged the proposer to regulate these procedures in a transparent way and also in a uniform way and ultimately require that Slovenia also have legal acts of the European Union. With regard to the institutional arrangements for control and promotion, the actual Ministry of Finance does not have a legal basis for collecting data on the public and private sector's closed relationship and for analysing the effects of such cooperation until the adoption of this law. For this reason, the task of the new unit defined under this Act will give the Ministry of Finance the opportunity to design this new unit and the purpose of this is also to advise, analyse projects, assist in the preparation of public-private partnership projects. This is also a positive and common practice of foreign countries, which in this way support public-private partnerships and therefore have quite a lot of development. With regard to the proposal to give particular priority to those organisational forms that operate in a non-profit or non-profit way, I can say a certain opinion or position here. The Ministry of Finance and the Government also wanted to be transparent in these solutions and in no way limit or influence the free economic initiative. Notwithstanding the fact that this transparency is also meant in the very definition of profitable or non-profit activities, today, despite the fact that there is a large definition of non-profit activity in professional literature, for example, one is in the company law, the next is in the framework of tax legislation, of course a certain pre-emptive advantage gives a certain degree of non-transparency and the possibility that a free economic initiative is also distorted here. We, of course, believe here that there is certainly some motive for partnership, usually the motive is that a particular matter will bring a certain income, or this partnership will bring a certain income to the market economy, and from this point of view this income, which will then be expressed also in profit, will in fact become the motive or motive for the conclusion of this partnership. The second thing I would like to say, of course, is that such a solution in some way could also mean moving certain activities into organizational forms that could be formally non-profitable, but in fact this limit could also be blurred, precisely because of the different definition of profitability or very difficult to set limits on profitability and non-profitability. That's why we have reservations here. However, this position or proposal will be re-examined. As regards instruments, or as regards cultural heritage, or the promotion of investments in Slovenian cultural heritage, I would like to stress that this law provides the basis for giving instruments to encourage investment in cultural heritage, in the preservation of cultural heritage. At the same time, the government has already taken certain measures, solutions in other areas where, for cultural activity, including cultural heritage, for example in the field of tax legislation, provision has been made for larger donations. However, this law is also one of the grounds for ensuring that investments are also made to preserve cultural heritage in Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! This might be a brief outline of the answers to your questions, initiatives and opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Since we still have a lot of time left, we can say that once again it's an opportunity for quick fingers, a little bit of a joke, really. Those who would like to discuss it should express their desire by putting pressure on any key in front of them. If that's what the government wants, please raise your hand. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. We've got three reports. Everyone has five minutes. In particular, I invite Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'm not gonna take five minutes. I'm gonna be a little short. I support the drafting or adoption of this law, the consideration of this law in the National Assembly. I am sure that it has been a time for us to settle this in Slovenia, not because so far there would be no cases of public and private partnership or foreign PPP, but to regulate the rules of the game, to organise institutional matters within the government or the Ministry of Finance and within the framework of the envisaged Public-Private Partnership Council. In this way, for the first time, the rules of the game should be laid down, and for the second time this area should also be adequately regulated by sub-legislative acts. This serves after, at least, as a help to all those who need to do these things more intensively. As I say, I am sure that this does not mean the start of this partnership, but rather a more well-organised continuation. In view of the discussion, I would say that we must first and foremost be aware that this public-private partnership must be included in the thinking and implementation of each project. And that may be why there may be some difficulty in why this matter has not yet taken effect. It is also a question of whether to what extent it will also be possible to build our highway network. It is likely that a mistake was made at the beginning that the country did not bite at that time or that it did not go in that direction. But, of course, it's easy to be smart back there. But of course, such things in such large projects may be some initial decisions or initial decisions, which then take place throughout the whole period, similar to in the same sector to the tolling system, because of the conclusion in this room, the former space, I think that in 1995 the country opened a toll system that is actually drawing us now. But, as it is said, I support the regulation of this area, which will accelerate this area of capital participation in all projects, including in the field of social activities, in the social field, where there are already a lot of these projects in the area of home for the elderly and similar and in the field of health, culture, etc. Perhaps I would like to make just one comment, but it seems to me that there was not exactly one issue in place with fellow Member Testen, who said earlier that the best doctors decide on concessions for this private activity. I just have to tell you that I've had a lot to do with doctors or vice versa recently, and in the public sector. I think it's a bit of an insult to these doctors in the public sector to say that they're the best, that's what they say, and they're what's left. It's just a slight comment, but I know you meant it on purpose. I will support this law at this stage of consideration. Those little things that need to be complemented, I am sure that the proposaler will complement them for a further phase, we will also address some things in the National Assembly, and I am sure that we will eventually adopt a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Five minutes goes by pretty fast. Mr Starman is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. Of course, I support that this law is implemented as quickly as possible through a procedure to regulate the legal basis for such activity. Of course, I would put here some warnings or comments mainly in terms of economic logic and the logic of public finances. Here we do not solve the essential problem that will arise, this is how to share profits from these investments that will be put in place and how to ensure a low price. These two elements are very important and this law does not separate them. This will have to be very precise in terms of what the public sector and the private sector will be like in these elements. We know that no one will invest unless they have a certain profit from this, unless they have a greater return than they would have elsewhere, it is said that at least as much returns should be expected as I do, in state securities or something like that. But here we're talking about non-profit operations. This is simply not logical and does not make sense to look for investors or to force them to cheat themselves and the state in their own projects by covering things up through balance sheets. The case was mentioned here. Home for older citizens, one has a price of 120, the one that was built with a concession of 200,000 SIT per month. What's the difference? There are two problems here. The State price does not include depreciation costs or similar for reinvestment. At that price, however, it is likely that the return on capital invested in 10 or 15 years may be higher, but the difference is clear. I'm just saying that as an example. This is going to happen everywhere. Even when we give, for example, at the municipal level, when we have a whole series of projects, we built a sewer here we also ask a fundamental question. [[...]] A country as an investor, a consumer of investment funds in these so-called public sectors, utilities, infrastructure, all together. The state is investing, but these are profitable activities, they should not speak non-profit. It can, if investment funds are also provided and the state should also generate profits, then it would be in the same position. So, if we built highways, ensure the refund of the money invested, plus at least what is interest, and all of these costs. Just like the plumbing, the sewers. And this dilemma is how this is going to happen, because the fact is that such an example, as I mentioned with a home for older citizens, will be everywhere. Prices will rise because the private sector will not go into investment if it does not make a calculation to make more profit out of this than it gets from any other activity. This dilemma, I don't think it's answered enough. It will be necessary to respond in the next phase. Here we expect the missing funds that we cannot obtain under the budget, within our expenditure, that the private sector will contribute to the construction of public infrastructure, but that the public sector might be better able to acquire funds and otherwise manage them. There's something else I'd like to say about health care, education. These elements, these areas are organised in a way that is not competitive. It is also necessary to open up competitiveness here, as well as in the private sector, to determine the rules of the game, how the investment returns, with what percentages and how much of it is involved and what property is after the end of operation. The road is 15 years in concession, and then, of course, it's state-owned and then it's taken care of. These dilemmas are very important and we can, in the right approach, under the right law, accelerate the construction of infrastructure facilities, raise the standard of living in our country, but we must not rely on something that will not. It is therefore necessary to provide that these investments, which will be invested, will be able to return to people's expected profits. And that needs to be resolved. To speak and what part then belongs to all the investments that the state has and how it returns, these dilemmas in the system will have to be cleared and then the glass issue can be cleared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The last one has a word, Mr. Ambassador Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The law was undoubtedly needed, and it is true, in principle, there are some minorities that will need to be corrected, but there is one enormously large thing that will have to be settled. After all, the biggest expansion of the public-private partnership can actually be expected in economic public services. These are various supplies of drinking water, sewage, waste disposal, then cemetery and similar things. The fact is that this segment is not regulated in Slovenia. Public companies were, on the one hand, an economic company and, on the other hand, an activity in the public interest. And the legislation that should regulate this matter has, in fact, been in preparation for several years and is not ready today. But something terrible happened in this marriage. Simply in the transitional and final provisions, in particular in Articles 141, 142, 143 and 144, all of this is compressed together. I think that's fundamentally wrong, because what's going to happen in this area? Rich elites or, easier said, rich mayors will be able to become owners of former public services, they will have drinking water in their hands, they will have sewage in their hands, they will have a cemetery in their hands, they will have all these things, they will have waste in their hands, and there will be no competition in accordance with European legislation. Gentlemen will make a fine investment in their money, or the ladies, when they take this matter away from their city or congregation, the absolute masters of their farm or from their congregations or from their cities. It's the biggest, maybe even, I could say, the only big mistake of this marriage. However, I think this is a strategic issue, because EUR 5 million is not enough money for some Slovenian private people to fail, and some of these Slovenian private people are also candidates for mayors of certain Slovenian cities or places. In this case, 1 billion 200 million can be quickly obtained from outside the vessel and certain mayors and mayors will take the matter away in such a way that the foreigner will become the absolute master of these public segments, so that the mayors or mayors can frustrate what I know to what extent they will agree, 10, 15, 20, some who are more modest or dumber, and one or two percent of these major routes. It is a mistake, and I think we should adopt a special law on this matter, not to push it into the transitional provisions of the existing law. The fact is that we cannot afford the cruel form of capitalism afforded by transitional provisions. And here I appeal to the government to prepare and correct these segments or to include any safeguard mechanisms primarily in these four articles; Article 145 is already irrelevant to this implementation issue, and the most important are Articles 141 and 142. I think the government itself is aware of these issues, but I don't understand why it went to such an easy solution. I don't believe this government wants to rub all this stuff under its wing. I'd believe that if the Liberal Democracy and the United List still ruled, they'd want to go to hell. So once again I appeal to the government to consider correcting these four articles and not allowing the collapse of the public system, I can say, municipal values, water, electricity, garbage, drinking water and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with this. I warmly welcome young visitors and visitors, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia! On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, well, it is now clear that this will certainly be before 20.55 hours as originally planned. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - First draft of the Public Order Act (EPA 1029-IV). We have four hours and 15 minutes to discuss again. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. I assume this will be the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Public procurement is an important generator of economic growth in Slovenia. Therefore, the proposal for a public procurement law adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of procurement procedures for construction, services and goods and introduces innovations that will contribute to improving public procurement. In addition to that directive, the preparation of the proposal for a public procurement law took into account the experience we have gained in this field in Slovenia, as well as the actual practice of procurement. In 2005, public procurement exceeded EUR 441 billion, or around EUR 1.8 billion, which amounts to 25.6 of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year. The share of public contracts in the gross social product was 6.7%. It is therefore crucial that a system be set up in the field of public procurement that will ensure an even more cost-effective and more transparent use of public funds. The Public Procurement Act regulates the execution of orders, so-called classic public procurements, such as state authorities, local communities, public institutions, public agencies. The so-called infrastructure sectors are set out in a specific law on public procurement, in the water, energy, transport and postal services. Compared to the law currently in force, it repeals the proposal for a law on public procurement of unnecessary formalism in procurement procedures, allowing for greater competition and competitiveness and flexibility. The purpose of the law is to introduce as simple and transparent a procurement system as possible, while ensuring compliance with the rules in force in the European Union. The proposal for a law, requiring that the provisions of the Directives be complied with, shall be transposed in an expertly sound and simple manner. Under the European thresholds for simplifying public procurement, the introduction of a simple system for publishing via the public procurement portal, a single and simple procurement procedure, with the possibility of including negotiations, regardless of the value of the contract, will give the tenderers the opportunity to complement the tender with respect to elements which do not affect the classification of the tenders received. The public procurement portal will be established within 6 months of the law being enacted. The draft law clearly sets the limits and procedures to be respected by contracting authorities for the execution of a contract. For reasons of simplification and greater flexibility, the law on the purchase of goods and services of up to EUR 10 000 and the construction of up to EUR 20 000 does not provide for a procedure. For the purchase of goods and services worth between EUR 10,000 and EUR 60 000 and for the construction of between EUR 20 000 and EUR 120 000, the contracting authority must carry out the bidding process. When the value of goods and services is between EUR 60 000 and EUR 137 000, or up to EUR 211,000, and where the value of construction ranges from EUR 120 000 to EUR 274 thousand, it is necessary to publish the contract on the public procurement portal or until it is established in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. However, for the purchase of goods and services of value exceeding European limit values, the contracting authority may choose between an open procedure, a procedure with a prior determination of competence, a competitive dialogue or a negotiated procedure without or after a prior publication. These European values amount to €137,000 and €211,000 for goods and services and €5 million 278,000 for construction. The draft law also specifies the conditions to be met in order to apply the individual procedure. The choice of procedure shall not be left to the contracting authority. A public contract whose value exceeds the already mentioned European limit values should be published in the Official Journal of the EU and on the public procurement portal. The opening of tenders must be public. So defined procedures strike a balance between flexibility and transparency. Smaller value contracts are burdened by long, complex and expensive procedures. This ensures the efficiency, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of public spending. The Public Procurement Act contains innovations that will contribute to improving procurement procedures. Introduces electronic procurement by electronic auction, systemically regulates common procurement, covers specific procurement methods, introduces the production of technical specifications, sets out more clearly the conditions for participation and the evaluation criteria. New procurement procedures are also included in the bill. In particular, a clearer delimitation of entities which are contracting entities and carry out public procurement under the rules and contracting entities which carry out public procurement under different rules should be highlighted. In one case, we are talking about infrastructure, in the other case, about all the other contracting entities. The law also introduces so-called "and home" orders, which means the creation of technical specifications for accessible orders to small and medium-sized enterprises. The law also changes the arrangements in cases where tenderers make tenders with subcontractors. The current practice in this area has shown that the implementation of contracts concluded on the basis of public procurement has often been hampered by payment non-discipline between operators and subcontractors. The purpose of this provision is therefore to establish a legal basis for effective payment discipline in all cases of public procurement involving subcontractors. The basic element for the functioning of the public procurement system is the correct definition of the obligation to respect the law. The definition of the contracting authority is defined more clearly and fully by virtue of the provisions of the applicable law and the definition of the contracting authority set out in the Directive is transferred. The term of the contracting authority refers to the status of legal forms in the Republic of Slovenia, such as a public institution, a public agency, a public fund and the like. In comparison with the directive, this is a more precise definition of the obligation of the law. However, the entity expressing legal interest may make a proposal to the Ministry of Finance in writing to determine the status of the contracting authority. Economic operators who have participated in a criminal organisation or have been convicted of offences, corruption and fraud, criminal association or money laundering shall be excluded from the procurement procedures. The contracting authority shall determine, on the basis of the law, when it is necessary to require candidates or tenderers to submit relevant documents showing the actual situation of the tenderers. Dear Members, before you is the first of two public procurement laws. If the law in the parliamentary procedure is subject to certain changes, we hope that flexibility will be allowed in the law itself, taking into account transparency and that, of course, flexibility and transparency will not be curtailed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much for further explanation. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite the first to the floor of Mr Trofenik on behalf of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you, for your word. A nice greeting to all present representatives of the government. The analysis and data of the joint public procurement report issued in the Republic of Slovenia in 2005 show that public procurement in the Republic of Slovenia is an important part of public finances and in 2005 it exceeded almost 430 and 440 billion Slovenian tolls without VAT, of course, or a billion EUR 800 per year, which is a good quarter of the budget expenditure of the Republic of Slovenia. These data have already been included in the data on the share of public contracts in the gross social product. However, the economic categories of development investment are of course the most sound part of public finances, and it is therefore very important to ensure that public funds are used effectively and that they are best regulated. Despite significant additions to the law on public procurement, the current law has failed to address all the issues and problems in public procurement, and a new law has to be adopted to follow the procurement directives while ensuring greater transparency and greater simplification. The State Audit Commission and users point out a number of issues in the field of public procurement that would be subject to regulation. These are in particular the problems of demarcating between the standards governing the individual legal relations of a particular contracting authority in the classical and infrastructure sectors, the issue of a uniform regime of exceptions for which the law does not apply, the clearer definition of the status of the contracting authority, the need to define the more clearly defined definitions, the need for a more precise definition of the condition for initiating the procedure and the need to standardise procurement procedures through negotiation, etc. While the draft law takes into account some of these proposals, such as the definition of the status of contracting authority. The law now clearly defines the definition of a contracting entity under the Public Procurement Act as it follows the definition of a directive. The basis of the definition is that contracting authorities are national, regional and local authorities, public law entities and associations set up by one or more of these bodies or one or more of these bodies of public law. However, there are still problematic issues concerning the protection of language data in tenders, the deadline for submission of tenders, the publication of invitations to tender and the opening of tenders. In connection with the country's efforts to make concessions more manageable, especially in the context of the public-private partnership, the question is how to deal with the issue of mandatory behaviour of co-ordinators and concessionaires in a uniform manner. There is also an unanswered question as to whether this will reduce the red tape of public procurement. The Liberal Democracy Club supports that the purpose of the law is to introduce payment discipline between operators and subcontractors, but practice will show whether this idea or this objective will be realized. We also support the introduction of a simple system for procurement publications both above and below European thresholds through the public procurement portal. While we hope that public procurement in the Republic of Slovenia will become more open to operators from the European Union, this would allow greater competition between operators and thus lower public procurement prices. The law also introduces opportunities for tenderers to complement the offer on elements that do not affect the decommissioning of the tenders received, but such a solution was particularly needed in the past when our group called on the government to draw up a law on public procurement. If the government had proposed it earlier, it could have been avoided by unwarranted delaying public procurement procedures in the already mentioned case of operating tables and other delaying important procurement procedures. At the parliamentary club, we do not understand the reasons for the eight-month delay in drafting the proposed law. The law also includes new procurement procedures, such as competitive dialogue. Competitive dialogue shall be a procedure that can be applied where the application of an open procedure with a prior determination of the ability due to the complexity of the contract is not possible and provided that the criterion for selecting the most favourable bidder is the most economically advantageous offer. This new competitive dialogue process will allow for fewer possibilities for complaints due to precisely defined selection criteria. The law also sets out a specific method of procurement as a dynamic purchasing system and a framework agreement. The dynamic purchasing system is a way of carrying out the procurement procedure under the open procedure, which is fully carried out by electronic means. It shall apply in the case of normal purchases, the characteristic of which is that, in the form that they are available on the market, they comply fully with the requirements of the contracting authority. This procedure shall be limited in time, allowing for the participation of the tenderer and the tenderer who fulfils the conditions and has submitted an application in accordance with the tendering documentation. The Framework Agreement is an agreement between one or more contracting entities and one or more tenderers whose purpose is to lay down conditions for contracts to be awarded within a given period, in particular as regards the price. And if possible, they take into account the quantity. Special procurement methods will allow for faster, cheaper and easier execution of the contract, and therefore we support their implementation or introduction. We support the introduction of electronic auctioning in the parliamentary club, which will simplify administrative procedures and reduce the costs of public procurement. The use of electronic auctions allows contracting entities to require the identification of new prices, revised reductions and, if the contract is awarded to the most economically advantageous offer, to improve other elements of the offer in addition to the price. In order to ensure compliance with the principle of transparency, only elements may be subject to electronic auctions because they are suitable for automatic evaluation by electronic means, without prejudice to or evaluation by the contracting authority. So only elements that are measurable and can be expressed in numbers. This raises the question of why the government is more than one year behind in the preparation of a single public procurement portal, which should otherwise be launched at the end of January 2005 and would save approximately 600 million tolls per year to subscribers, according to the Court of Auditors. The Ministry of Finance is not expected to establish the portal until six months after the new Public Procurement Act has been implemented. Due to the public, transparency and reduced costs of contracting entities, it should be in the interest of the government to obtain the portal as soon as possible. For these reasons, the Liberal Democracy Club will also support the necessary amendment to the Public Procurement Act. When considering the proposed law, however, it raises questions about compliance with the guidelines of the European Commission. The European Commission has adopted guidelines in which it advocates the enforcement of uniform rules that are applicable in the Member States of the European Union to public procurement of a larger scale, even in cases where contracting authorities conclude contracts for services or works that do not reach those values and the European Directives do not apply, and in Brussels they also need to be subject to minimum standards of transparency and non-discrimination. The Commission points out that the guidelines do not extend the scope of the procurement directives to lower value public procurement, but merely summarise the determinations of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg which, in the field of public procurement with cross-border elements, require respect for the fundamental principles of the internal market. It is worth noting that the guidelines do not cover all orders of lower value, but only those where it is possible to assume that they are of cross-border importance, so the guidelines do not apply to contracts without a cross-border element. In Brussels, they stress that the guidelines are intended primarily to facilitate competition between small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement, since in most cases they do not have the capacity to apply for tenders under the European Directives. Individually, the value of small contracts is low and together they are worth billions, said the European Commissioner for Monetary Market and added that the guidelines would help companies across the European Union to benefit from small public contracts. For this reason, we would also like an answer from the Government to the question whether it has followed these guidelines from the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor by inviting Ambassador Pecanovo to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u50	Good afternoon. Even in this law, we have been actively involved by the Social Democrats in the pre-government process, if we may say so. And I must express my satisfaction that the vast majority of our proposals have also been taken into account in the final drafting of the law. We believe that our proposals have reflected the experience we have in Slovenia now for over a decade in the field of public procurement and that we are also, not because we are a party to the opposition, but because we believe that our country must be in all areas, especially in the field of public procurement, which can be regulated and highly systematic in the execution of public contracts, because it is actually about rational use of public funds that we contribute to the state treasury, without exception. Here, in particular, I would point out that the law is now more systematic than the law now in force and that, of course, by incorporating it, it also brings news that we have to look for on the web pages or at the printed rules of the European Directive. The fact is that we did not know what the European Directive allows to be used and when we go into public procurement, we do not have time to look for all the possible combinations and also a lot of innovative solutions that practice in the old 15 has also brought. Here, for example, as one such interesting point to the possibility that the contracting authority should not be required to carry out a public contract where the founder of a public undertaking or of an economic company in which the name of the majority or the entire management right is located; for example, if the municipality establishes a public undertaking in order to provide a specific service, it does not need to be in charge of the execution of a contract or of the collection of tenders, which may be in charge of the execution of that contract or of that task, this investment or service owes its undertaking. Here I think there are experiences that bring a lot of good things. Well, now we have this written in the bill, which I hope will facilitate some procedures in public procurement, but at the same time I think I have committed the contracting authorities to, I will say, a larger order in this area. Following the consideration of a series of audit reports by the Court of Auditors, which concerned in particular the execution of public contracts with individual contracting authorities, we can find that we may attribute some errors to ignorance or ignorance of procedures. However, I do not think that the law can force the contracting authorities to comply with it. That is why, I must say, it is uncomfortable when I think about what is going to happen, especially in the case of public contracts that will exceed the value to be published in the European Official Journal, that we will avoid the publication of public contracts in the same way as in our own case, by dividing their contracts into lots, forgetting that it is very clear in the law that the division into lots does not remove the contracting entity from the publication in the Official Journal, because the whole amount is a crucial element, however, that sets the limit for publication in the European Official Journal. But I would also like to draw attention to one more thing that you can also take as you think, a little evil. In fact, when we adopted precisely one public contract to amend the law on the revision of public contracts, we were talking about that in the Public Procurement Act we would also define this exception, such as the exceptions to the application of this law, what we are dealing with today, for individual types of public contracts or for individual types of contracts, not public contracts, because we then do not publish them publicly. Well, something similar could be done in such a way that what we put under urgent and life-saving importance in the law on auditing, the revision of public contracts, could also be introduced into this law, and then the matter would probably be more appropriate and even more legal if some already thought it was legitimacy. So when it comes to life and the preservation of human life and health, then such a public procurement procedure could be listed in this Public Procurement Act as an exception or as a special rule, and this could avoid a number of affairs that are likely to await us. I hope that someone in this Chamber, for all we have left, does not create illusions and thinks that we will avoid the affairs caused not by the speculation or malice of suppliers or performers, but, above all, by the negligence and perhaps even by the bribery of the subscribers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you. Allow me to give you a warm welcome on my behalf and to thank Vice-President Pavliha for his leadership so far. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Member Martin Mikolič has the floor and will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. How do you do? How do you do? In the New Slovenia Group we advocate greater transparency of public procurement. This establishes a mechanism for better, better control over the implementation of public procurement and the responsibility of the contracting authorities. Amendments to public procurement legislation were necessary and necessary. The proposal is more transparent than the existing law, introducing many new solutions. Public procurement will be simplified in cases where purchases of goods and services are below the EU's limits. New procurement procedures, such as competitive dialogue, shall be highlighted. It will be possible to use extremely complex projects, for example in a transparent area, when contracting authorities deal with all aspects of the contract with each candidate and how they can objectively identify what the market can offer in terms of technical and other solutions. The framework agreement should be highlighted among the specific procurement methods. The proposal for a law provides for the conclusion of a framework agreement following the completion of the procurement procedure for those procurement items which are carried out in a successful manner and which may be entered into in advance by certain contractual obligations. The bill allows for the management of secondary policies as contracting authorities are given the opportunity to include social components and environmental aspects in the procurement processes. As an opportunity to promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the law provides that, if tenders are made by related tenderers, the contracting authority may not require any legal or formal integration from those tenderers. In the New Slovenia Group we also welcome the regulation of financial discipline in cases of subcontractors. The proposal for a law in Article 4 empowers the Government to lay down the rules for these cases more precisely by means of a specific regulation. The introduction of a list of suppliers or subcontractors with negative references may also be considered. Let me also mention in the media the often raised issue of establishing a public procurement portal. In the Ministerial Declaration on the EU Administration, European ministers have pledged that by 2010 all public administrations will have the full possibility of electronic execution of procurement procedures. Public procurement procedures should therefore be cheapened and reduced. The bill provides that the publication on the public procurement portal will be mandatory for goods and services, whose VAT value exceeds €60,000 and €120,000 for construction. If all public contracts were awarded in 2005 in Slovenia 300.055, of which only 12,102, which represents 3.9% of the points, the price awarded is disproportionately high, the cost stated in the explanatory statement is 190 million for the establishment of the portal. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that there is a need for further attention to be given to this issue. In any case, we will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you. Member Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u54	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering the second law on public procurement, which regulates public procurement, and according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group is one of the most important laws on public finances. On the one hand, a good law on public procurement must ensure effective public procurement and, on the other hand, transparent implementation of all procedures with a view to preventing abuses in the procurement and public selection process. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have devoted a little more time and content to the bill's proposal so that it needs to be reviewed more thoroughly and, in our opinion, at least in some of the provisions, supplemented or completed. According to the Slovenian People's Party Group, the law does not solve the situation when the contracting authority obtains a so-called tender at an unusually low price. The contracting authority may accept such an offer and, in that case, the tenderer which has not been selected and has offered a higher price has no legal remedy. This is a problem, however, as it is indisputably based on the fact that this price later, for example, over a longer period of time, will prove unrealistic and will repeatedly rise under the cover of additional unforeseen price services, which means that the other bidders have been played and we will pay a higher price or pay the taxpayer. Article 21 of the Act defines the concept of unacceptable tender which, according to the proposaler, is an offer whose price is unacceptablely high. However, there are no standards in the law in question, what is unacceptablely high price, since this is a relatively broad concept, which will be necessary in practice, if not earlier, and explained and proved in the revision. The status of the contracting authority is not clearly defined, and it is not clear, in particular, what legal interest must be demonstrated by an entity which, pursuant to Article 5(3), may require the Ministry or the Government to determine whether a particular entity is to be treated as a contracting entity within the meaning of Article 3 of the Public Procurement Act. Although it is stated that the rules and procedure are established by the Government by a regulation, but there is no time limit for the issue of this Regulation, it is also not possible to leave, as a rule, the definition of legal interest to be demonstrated by the interested party. Article 4, paragraph 6, provides that the Government shall lay down rules by law in cases where the tenderers perform with subcontractors. In this case, it would also make sense, at least in our view, that these rules are laid down in the law itself, since they affect the concept of the completeness of the offer as defined in Article 16 of the Act in question. In this regard, it should also be recalled that the concept is formal perfection, which is one of the elements affecting the fact that the offer must be complete, is nowhere to be defined. Therefore, it is not known whether the offer must be made in order to ensure that the full offer is prepared in accordance with the law, the sub-legislative acts and the contracting authority’s instructions. The fact is that in practice it is noted that contracting entities do not simply transfer certain requirements imposed by law into the provisions of tender documents. According to the old rule, not knowing the law harms, i.e. in practice it means that a provider who is often not the rightful party follows only the requirements of the tendering documents, not the provisions of the law itself, but the acts of law. This fact may be speculative or not, but the method of assessing the completeness of the offer is not clearly defined and this will in practice, when assessing the completeness of the offer, constitute major problems and litigation. For this reason, it should be emphasized that in Slovenia there are more than 3,000 subscribers who do not have specialized legal services - schools, not to list them - who are preparing tenders. This means that the law must be clear and must also include provisions specifying which elements a subcontractor must demonstrate that its offer is complete, as the same law applies. However, the basic concepts must be clear and defined so that things do not happen as before, we know how. We are also surprised by the provision of Article 22 of the Public Procurement Act, which does not allow for an examination of the offer before the award notice, since the reasons for such a decision are not found in the law itself. Although the offer should not change, there is a legitimate fear that in some cases this is what has happened and has happened. This is why they want to take a look at it as soon as possible. In terms of transparency of procedures, in our view, the legislator should enable them to do so immediately after the opening of tenders, since only in this way could some tenderers actually protect their rights and legal benefits. We know from practice how offers have changed and changed, and this provision, which new rules the practice of looking at, is not justified by directives, other reasons, at least in our opinion, cannot be found in the law. Article 25 of the Act provides for an open procedure and therefore raises the question whether tenderers really need to prepare tenders only in accordance with the requirements of the tender or also in accordance with the provisions of the Act in question. This issue is not regulated by the current Public Procurement Act, and in practice it is a serious problem when a tenderer follows only the awarding of a tender, but does not take into account the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and in the event of a dispute, the State Audit Commission finds that its offer is incomplete or incorrect. For example, the contracting authority did not request a copy of the tenders to be submitted to the State Audit Commission, and the contracting authority rejected such a tender as incomplete or incorrect in the assessment procedure, followed by the State Audit Commission on the grounds that it provided for the law in force. Of course, the behaviour of the contracting authorities, when the tender does not require everything the law requires, may result from ignorance and may also be speculation. It is therefore right that such a situation be regulated by law or that the legislator arranges for it. The rules of the legislator relating to special public procurement are subordinated. The same applies to the conditions which include social and environmental aspects. The proposal provides that the Government may prescribe in which cases environmental technical specifications or environmental selection criteria must be laid down and how they are used. The problem has been that the conditions in the tenders are always an element to be met and are of an exclusive nature. If the offer does not meet all the conditions, it shall be excluded. However, the question raised earlier is whether the contracting authority, in assessing the completeness of the tender as defined in Article 16(3), is also to take into account the fact that the Government has laid down certain conditions in a regulation which the tenderer should fulfil but which were not given in the tender documentation. The fact that there is no time limit within which the application will determine this, we are not speaking. Article 41 of the Act provides that the contracting authority may limit the number of eligible candidates, but the legislator has not determined what criteria the contracting authority must take into account in the restriction. I guess it's not just the client's willful decision to invite just one candidate. In the event of a dispute concerning the fact, it is unclear on what criteria will it be assessed whether the contracting authority has invited a sufficient number of candidates to ensure competition, as set out in the third paragraph of Article 41. We all know the cases of related companies, both economically and economically connected, and therefore the question arises whether it would not make sense for this provision to be supplemented by the fact that the contracting authority and the tenderer do not bypass the law too quickly. In Article 48 of the Act on selection criteria, the legislator did not specify how the contracting authority would classify the tenders if it found that the criterion could not be evaluated for objective reasons. The fact that the contracting authority has to classify the criteria in order from the most important to the least important does not solve the above-mentioned situation. In some ways, it is necessary, if not earlier, to verify in an objectively verifiable manner the correctness of the contracting authority’s decision even if the criterion could not be evaluated, as stated by the applicant in the third paragraph of the cited Article. Last but not least, if the contracting entity does not even know what a single measure of value would be, how to classify it. The criteria are, however, an element of the evaluation of the offer and can be classified by the contracting authority on this basis. The criteria are given in advance, a distinguishing mark between tenders whose choice reflects the contracting authority’s assessment of the importance of individual circumstances relating to the subject matter or the execution of the contract. Some circumstances become a criterion only if deviations are expected between tenderers that demonstrate their competitiveness. This variation of circumstances as criteria is a positive answer to the question whether the distinction under a given criterion will also truly confer an advantage over other offers in the actual execution of the contract. All of this is most often the subject of an audit, or part of a State Audit Commission. However, in the case of the admissibility of the completion of tenders, the question is whether this provision does not allow all other provisions to be played, since, on that basis, the contracting authority actually allows the tenderer to become complete from the formal incomplete offer. If the contracting authority makes a request as a condition, it must be met by all tenderers, otherwise it is the unequal treatment of other tenderers and the non-transparentness of the whole procurement procedure. In addition, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also asked a question, on the proposal of which economic operator the contracting authority can find that the offer is formally incomplete, since no one has the right to look at the offer after this proposal until the award decision. Most importantly, the rules applicable to the communication should be amended so that the notices or other acts from which the time limits for the enforcement of legal protection continue to run, the complaint, the request for review, must always be served with a return. Article 79 of the Act provides that the contracting authority may send a decision on the award of the contract by mail, fax or electronic means. This is not acceptable, since in all other proceedings it is stipulated that the time limit for the submission of a legal remedy, such as a complaint, an application for review or civil justice, is always hot with a return. After fax, a notice of award shall be sent to the tenderers on the basis of the fact that the time limit for the submission of a legal remedy has elapsed since the receipt of this notice and shall be unresponsible. The fourth paragraph of Article 79 is irrelevant, since it is already specified which information the contracting authority must protect as a business secret when ordering. On the basis of all the above, it can be concluded that the law in many respects is flawed in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the law at first reading. We note, however, that when preparing the draft law for second reading, it is necessary to take into account certain segments and certain provisions of the law, particularly those which we have highlighted as problematic when we first present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We expected a more transparent public procurement law in the Slovenian National Party. This, however, is an obvious anarchy, blackmail, corruption; here, audits of calls and complaints are regular. In short, there's a lot of work for black hair in this area. The last negative and, unfortunately, the painful part of the patients, our most affected citizens, is the public procurement procedure for operating tables. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not done anything wise and fast and efficient, since it has already received a warning from the European Union in February that they are late for this arrangement. Why is it so late? The law empowers the Government to set procedures above and below European borders with a special decision. Of course, when we talk about less red tape, it is also undeniable that the government is opening up new areas of doubt with this law, perhaps even in this unfair conduct, as has proved to be a daily practice to this day. We know that they are today applying for tenders by a legal person who does not even meet the conditions, with incomplete tendering conditions, later complement these tenders, and today, in Article 3, the government is proposing that if the entity does not agree with the decision of the Minister responsible for Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - that is, the rules adapted to it. Article 3 briefly gives open hands to the government to cut out essentially the type of agony that has taken place in ordering the operating tables and, of course, we can see in essence the positive elements of public procurement mainly in the area of construction, the introduction of an electronic method of reporting and, of course, the general public procurement of the government will be visible. For the first reading of this proposed law in the Slovenian National Party, we find that the law is flawed, written on the basis of the Government's great appeal in some segments with a projudiciary, which will open up new legal practice. Because I believe that a large number of legal persons will also complain about a government decision which, when it seems to her, will, of course, allow for a new type of corruption. It is good that, in fact, European standards are being introduced into this law in some way, but I think that it is necessary in law to supplement those flawed parts that have also been pointed out by colleagues with amendments, and I believe that in the process of adopting this law we will be dealing with a series of amendments that will be submitted by various parliamentary groups to this law. As has already been said, the law is ready in haste, it is apparent that the government has been forced to do something and that it has taken scissors and canvas into its own hands especially when it wants to ensure the interests of individuals close to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members of the Government! In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law is consistent with the European directive imposing transparent and clear procurement procedures, the method of procurement, the precise definition of the conditions for participation, the criteria for evaluation in the field of goods, services and works above the limits. According to our behaviour, the proposed solutions will address the problems that have arisen and should only mention the purchase of operating tables, where in our view there has been too much political controversy and over-controversy, and last but not least, the supply process has taken too long. Of course, it is crucial that the Member States of the European Union should publish their biggest public procurements at the entire level of the European Union. Thus, Slovenia has already introduced or provided rules on European criteria, but low-value contracts have been subject to different national legislation. And here is the European Commission's warning that Slovenia had too much freedom to take over the directives and, above all, it was excessive in exceptions, so we had to redecorate and change the concept of public procurement under European rules. Thus, the new law provides for national arrangements on the principle that the contracting authority awards a contract as a good host, taking into account the fundamental principles of public procurement, transparency, simplicity and efficiency of procedures. At the same time, the law offers a wider possibility of using the negotiating institute, which, of course, introduces greater flexibility into standard procedures. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that two things are extremely important for large centralised public contracts: the first to assess and assess whether the contracting authority will actually reach the lowest price and best offer or whether such a form of procurement will really deliver the most cost-effective and effective results. Second, well and accurately written tendering conditions or tender documentation. In fact, from practice, according to errors appear right in the tender and then follow audit procedures, which can time-consume the supply process itself. Given that we have aligned national public procurement legislation with the European acquis, we hope that payment discipline between operators and subcontractors will also be more effective and consistent. But also that these contracts represent an important share in the national budget, annually more than 420 billion tolars, or around a third of the expenditure of the state budget or 7% of the gross social product, we firmly believe that public money must be treated economically and provided with adequate legal protection for suppliers. By adopting such a proposal for a public procurement law, we will simplify the procurement process, eliminate some inconsistencies between national and European rules, make the contracting authorities more transparent, and the novelty is undoubtedly an electronic use of the procurement, as it means a quicker way through our behaviour to achieve the desired results. We are pleased with the proposal for a law on public procurement in the DeSUS Group of Members, so we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the national communities. Emissary Maria Pozsonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u60	All in attendance have a nice greeting! One of the more important novelties of this proposal is the more transparent regulation of contracting entities by taking over the text of Directive 2004/18 of the definition of contracting entity and of a particular person of public law as contracting entity, the list of contracting entities shall be adapted and simplified. Thus, contracting authorities shall be national, regional or local authorities, public law entities and associations set up, one or more of those bodies or one or more of those bodies of public law. The introduction of flexibility allows for dialogue between contracting authorities and candidates, in particular in cases of particularly complex contracts, in particular in areas where constant changes are present, such as high technology, where the contracting authority can set its needs, but does not know in advance what the best technical solution is to meet such needs. Some new ways of electronic purchasing are constantly evolving, contributing to increased competition and simplified public procurement, in particular in terms of the savings in time and money that their use makes possible. Contracting entities may use electronic procurement methods where this is in accordance with the rules adopted under the Directive and with the principles of equal treatment, non-discrimination and transparency. On the basis of the adopted Directives, the draft law also lays down certain new concepts, such as an economic operator and a descriptive document. In the proposal for a law, the directive includes an environmental aspect that can be included in procurement procedures similar to individual aspects of social policy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you. This is followed by the final presentation of the position by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Bojan Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I'm just saying hello again. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are pleased that we have finally received this law for consideration and we will do everything, including with the appropriate additions to this law, so that it will be adopted as soon as possible and enter into force. Time goes on and changes are needed everywhere. I think the new marriage is much better than the previous one and is being complemented in many ways. Here I am asked one question, which is somewhere in all these debates, not to repeat all the things that have been said from a slightly different point of view. The question is: Why do we have this law, why have we adopted the previous law, and why are we now changing or adopting a new law? The Public Procurement Act is intended to ensure the most transparent and transparent operation or procurement on behalf of a single country in order to ensure that what we buy is ordered as cheaply as possible. This is achieved only in a way that fully opens up the possibility of competition, both domestic and foreign, and, of course, as we have reviewed this bill, introduces some innovations that will allow this competitiveness or offer to increase, especially in terms of simpler procedures, in terms of introducing new possibilities, electronic and so forth, including through the introduction of a public procurement portal, which will cost individual user procedures and, of course, allow for wider accessibility and mandatory public publication in Europe, which will also open up, I would say, our space, our demand also foreign offers. However, all of this is really intended to ensure the most transparent and easy way or access of all providers to the needs or to the procurements that we supply from the point of view of the State. The amount of funds we've heard here is about 420 billion a year. Of course, when simpler procedures and procedures are allowed, less so-called "undertable business" are also allowed, which unfortunately are always at the expense of the country or our common consumption. Simply put, this law should lead to as simple a way as possible to get the easiest and fastest way to get as cheap as possible what we are looking for. Somewhere we should look if there is any other possibility, because we know that time is also an important factor in modern times, and it is a cost if in some way these procedures could be reduced by those urgent answers and deadlines so that this process can also be simplified from this point of view. In short, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the bill and we hope that it will be further complemented in this sense, so that we can make free competition possible for all and full transparency in the field of public procurement. In doing so, we expect that there will also be what should be the aim of reducing public spending or getting more for the same money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Allow me, however, to warn you or ask that those Members who have applied, but you have changed your mind, give your departure to the debate. This will make it easier for me and all those Members who wish to discuss. As we say, we are moving on to a general debate. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. I see that we are once in the Slovenian National Party after the presence of the majority, which shows how important the law is being dealt with. I must say that I have listened with great interest to the discussions of respected colleagues representing the views of individual parliamentary groups, and I very much note with interest that no one, but no one has mentioned that we have received this law on the table today because we have received a slap from the European Union that we must do it. This law should be adopted in February. I don't know if it's a lapsus or if you really didn't figure it out, but that's a fact. We have this law before us because the European Union is forcing us to have it. Moreover, the guidelines she has set out have been followed where this government has been "grabbed" and not where this government has, of course, not "belonged". And the second observation, I must say, is at the expense of government representatives. I myself have observed your mimicry at the performances of the opposition Members, I believe that you are having a lot of fun, that you are probably also looking at some interesting things that throw a laugh at your faces, but I think there have been some very constructive comments that you would certainly expect answers and not just smiles on your faces. I am convinced that it is the duty of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and of this national assembly to adapt the procurement procedures to market operators. We must not agree to the theory that these entities on the market competing for public procurement avoid being overly complicated because they do not understand the procedures. And simplifying these procedures - and I think it is the first step that this government should follow. Our duty, as I have already said, is to simplify these procedures. The law has 116 articles. According to the Slovenian National Party, it would be sufficient to define, I don't know, 20, 25 articles, but to define very clearly in this law. Of course, as long as the government really does not intend to hide anything, to conceal anything and to do public procurement transparently. 116 articles are essentially too many, at least half of them are designed to still hide something. In these 25 articles, I would simply state the content of a public contract or subject matter, price, eligibility, criteria and possibly add as part of this law or as a monthly sub-law, I will also say, a list of those companies that do not fulfil their obligations and who simply cannot, because of their mistakes, simply cannot, appear. So far, the practice of public procurement, which we have received in the Republic of Slovenia, has shown that it is a matter of public procurement in particular, I will say, of three major shortcomings: the first is non-transparent, I must say that, in our opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, you do not address these shortcomings. Intransparency will remain, so you've come up with so many and so many articles. The potential corruption that we have suffered in the government of the previous government, as we have already received in the two years of this government, is also said to have not changed much in this area. And the area of the so-called grey economy, the public gray economy. You don't make any difference here either, so the law before us today is basically the law that you're doing primarily because of what we got from the European Union, so it should have been done in February, and we're doing it seven months later. That's the only reason. You're not simplifying anything. You do not eliminate the grey economy and eliminate potential corruption in the government procurement market. Therefore, I am pleased to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare the law in such a way that, to the extent possible, there will be entities on the market and not to the extent of the government. Of course, I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to answer the question in which articles address these essential public procurement problems that I have mentioned. These are basically three very short answers, and if you list the articles, you will spend about half a minute to one minute if you are also going to do an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you. The next one has the floor of Member Rudi Veršnik. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Public Procurement Act is certainly one of those laws that cause problems to users, on the other hand, to both suppliers and contracting authorities. Of course, we are all sure that without this law, there is too much public funding. Large funds, such as those in the public procurement game, can be a quick prey for individuals or groups if the system is not used, which should require transparency and certain rules. I agree that the law on public procurement is very complicated, that it really causes a lot of problems already in creating the offer itself and then in implementing itself, but obviously this must be the case. Of course, our ministry has now drawn up on the basis of good practice, based on recommendations and conclusions, a new proposal which is now before us and which we are also discussing. Above all, it is important that the changes relating to the content itself are more important and it seems important to me that the opportunities offered by electronic media are maximized every day. The new bill introduces electronic procurement with an electronic auction, which will certainly be widely used in the future. In my work in the office, I have dealt with several complaints by subcontractors, who are in a subordinate position with the main operators and I have had few complaints that the payments they receive more after grace than after the works of the main operators are causing much trouble and are also under constant threat that they will have to cease operations because they are no longer liquid and they have to hire loans and thus fail to do business. This problem is actually burning and we have experienced quite a few similar affairs in the past, and therefore the law, which indicates the solution to this problem, I think it is going in the right direction. Nevertheless, I would point out one more thing, which is the law on public procurement, I do not think it solves; this is the part of contracts that are simply not competitive on the market. I mean organic food producers who clearly because of their way of producing and who are not able to compete on the market with their products, but we all know, especially in schools, that such food is significantly better for our consumption, but because of the lack of competition it is very difficult to introduce it into the food chain itself. I expect that in further discussions we will also try to put this problem into perspective or solve the benefits and benefits of this type of food and somehow place it in this cycle or in this trend that it will be possible to use this food for the benefit of our young people. I think that the law on public procurement in this form, as it is, is one step back to improving this law. But we know that this is an unsuspecting song and any new improvement, and I think it leads more to what we all want. We want the Public Procurement Act to fulfil its mission and thereby reduce the costs of public spending and ensure transparency in procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Michael Prevc has the floor. There's a MEP with a word. Tomaž Strabe. Member Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u68	Nice greetings to all those who have not yet gone to lunch. The issue of the law on public procurement is, in my opinion, very extensive and difficult. And the changes that this law brings, I think, are good to go in the right direction. In the beginning, I will return a little bit, what was going on in this area of public procurement, what problems they had from those who ordered and to those who applied failed. This will also be true, as has already been said here today, that there have been various connections and lobbying in this area, which have tried to use the legislation as it was, and have done little harm to those who, say, urgently needed things, but could not reach them. The new law certainly brings more systematic regulation and, above all, better transparency, and I am assessing that there are also faster procedures. If I mention only this possibility of electronic ordering and electronic commerce here, it seems that we must move forward in all areas, especially in this area of public procurement, there should be no exception that things should not go forward here. The anomalies that have taken place may not be completely eliminated by the adoption of this law, but the route I think is certainly a good one. I think it's an interesting example of how we had to go to our former job to get fuel for cars. We know that there were only two bidders in Slovenia at the time. But we were fortunate enough to get a selected Istrabenz, which in our environment did not have a completely petrol pump, and this for a fuel that had a price so called a set. But it is true that if we marry ourselves - he will lay the groundwork. It is very important, however, of those who order and of those who apply for invitations, how much positive success will be desired. If everyone takes the matter seriously, then I think there will be a step forward. The most important thing I think is that more transparency will certainly be achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, it is an extremely important law on public procurement. This is an extremely demanding law that we have been waiting for in the National Assembly for a long time, and I believe that not only Members, but also many other contracting authorities, commissions and contractors, last but not least, of this law, which, as I have already said, is extremely important, this is difficult matter if you have read it, and of course even more difficult if you meet it as a contracting officer. I think that these objectives, which this new proposal for a law that we have before us today at first reading, have given certain steps in a positive direction. But I'm afraid not what we all want together. It is not likely that it is so easy and easy to write such a law that it would really be very quality, transparent and transparent, and that it would satisfy everyone who has touched this law in one way or another. 400, 500 billion - this is a huge amount of money in public finances and there are also a lot of subscribers, and a lot of contractors. And of course, the main player in this field is probably the big ones that are very important in these major state and other projects, where billions in public procurement are turning. That is why it is probably the intention of the government, the ministry which is proposing to simplify it as much as possible, to make it more transparent, transparent and all the mistakes that have taken place years and years ago. I can tell from my own cases that the public procurement tender, a large asset, was 2 billion and a half, which the State Audit Commission "throwed" on a banal formal case. It's not substantive, it's not substantive, it's not substantive, it's formality. It bothers me so much. And what was the formal side? Someone asked the bank for a loan, which the bank also approved, asked it in the SIT, and approved it without the SITs, and the secretary forgot to write at the end of the SIT, but she knew what it was all about. The currency in Slovenia is SIT, you know that it is the SIT offer that was given, and only because of this formalities has the invitation to tender fallen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a disaster. It's about European money, it's about state money, it's about local money, and if billions of Slovenian money and European money fall on such trivial cases, then it's no wonder that we're overrun with European money ourselves, it's no wonder, but because of our own bad legislation, that I'm not speaking, the banal formalities that we're trying to apply. Here I hope, I see some positive steps in the sense that we can improve it so much that we can make this transparency more transparent somehow. I know that the deadlines set here from publication to opening offers are very different, I don't know why this is good, too long, I don't know why it takes so long from one event to another. You know how hard it is when an event happens, one way or another, when you get state and other funds, until the final call, until the contract is signed, it takes too long, and then it happens, the invitations are there in the summer, usually in the autumn, and in the winter the roads are supposed to work and the water lines, that's not the case, because these hands are too long, demanding and time runs away. Before the budget is adopted, local and national, before the calls are announced before this, we arrive with money in December, and then of course we can do nothing, because you cannot fix the situation because we know that until October it is the last time, etc. I think we should do a little bit more here to shorten those hands and simplify them so they don't be as long as they are. The other thing that seems important to me is this, but it's also positive for a lot of things, electronic ordering, auction. This is certainly a positive step forward, going to meaningful technology with simplicity, which are very, very important. I find it a bit controversial to say criteria or criteria. I'm afraid there's still going to be a dispute between the contracting authority and the contractor. Of course, it is difficult to write them in such a way that you will meet all the criteria, but I am afraid that there will still be a lot of manoeuvre in the contracting authorities and contractors, and that the State Audit Commission will still have a lot of work on formalities that are slowly going in the wrong direction. I am sure that this is the right step in the right direction, but this proposal for a law that should still be in this debate today, although it surprises me when some people say how important the law is, judging from the debates in the parliamentary benches, it is not so important, but I think it is very important. We're talking about things that are extremely important to public finances. I would like to see what our goal is probably to simplify it, too, transparent, clear, unequivocal, and that there is as little manoeuvre as possible, room for survival on this public finances range, which is today too large. Great players, Slovenians, who play commas, questions, calls, these formalities should not cause public calls to fall. This should be a guarantee, someone assures us that we are going more to substantive matters than to those of whether you have forgotten the printer on one of the many letters, or have you forgotten the signature, or has she forgotten to write that it is "sit credit" or without it. This is banalism, and I would warn the preparers here that they might try to make these things even more careful and that they might perhaps improve something else through the debate itself, but perhaps even better, even though I know, I realize that difficult matter, a difficult European directive, is tied together, but still, what is within the competence of the state of Slovenia, let us make it truly fair, transparent, transparent and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you for the pass. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. It is certainly an important law, but it is not the most interesting issue for some in this national assembly, judging by the occupation of cities, but it would be good to agree that many of us are concerned and that such or other solutions may have positive or negative consequences. I might continue here where my colleague ended up. I fully agree with him. Especially in the part where he talked about not only being in this area, but in general in our country too subject to this formalism and the importance of formalism before content. This is not good and this is stifling the normal functioning of the system and the functioning of individual segments in such a way that it is already harmful, even in public finances. A while ago, on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we hosted a gentleman from the Supreme Audit Institute in England, from the National Odit Office, where we could see how they function, and we could follow them a little. And if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a case. In their audits, in determining whether and how the effects of these audit procedures are identified, the content is important to them. It is important how much savings were made in the public sector because they made recommendations through the audit reports. And these amounts are very large. They're moving in the eight-fold amount of money that this institution spends on its operations, which is huge. And at this meeting we had one particular case of pharmacies where it was found that medicines were not ordered in accordance with the ZJN because they did not issue a public tender. And then they fixed it and ordered it in line with the UN, and our Court of Auditors said, "OK, it's all right, everything's in accordance with the law, and no one asked themselves whether this process saved anything from this sector? Did this make the purchase of drugs cheaper? Did these pharmacies at this address save you anything? On the contrary, it has also been found that due to procedures such as this, this value has increased, which is logical. Players in this small market in Slovenia are known and only one are known and there is no devil not to be able to deal with each other, even if it is a so-called secret public procurement, a call on which everyone, independently of each other, can apply. What am I trying to say? I want to say that with the law on public procurement, as it is and as we have been in force for some time now, no one is satisfied with this law. Nobody. Neither subscribers nor bidders, if you want, nor politicians. It is said that it is imperative to correct it, and what we have before us today is a step towards doing so. But this is not a final step, for there are some things in this law that need to be heard and discussed. I have listened today, something has already been said in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, and I estimate that this is a law that should reach a broad consensus at the time of adoption, because it is a matter of public finances that concern everything between us. For this reason, it must come to the best solutions. This path, which is now being placed, is the right one, and is the right one, a great deal of nonsense that we have read in the current law, which we are still reading in the current law, has been removed. A number of things that are good are introduced in this bill, procedures are rationalised, on the other hand the rights of tenderers are protected, and abuses that are systematically used by some. And I think it is important to ensure equal treatment on the one hand and, on the other hand, to prevent the abuse of individuals who, for such or other reasons, take advantage of the inconsistencies we have in the law in force. But there are still a few things that need to be resolved and changed. See, just as an example of not being a proposal, in article 79 we read something similar to what we read in the current law and as we read in the previous law, by calling it a reasoned notice of the award of a contract earlier, it is now called an additional explanation and, following the proposal for a novel, it is also called a further explanation of the award decision. What for? The contracting authority who chose someone sent him an explanation for choosing him for these different ten reasons, and then one of the tenderers could remember and within a further period of time, which prolongs everything, these decisions would require further explanation. Why? In most cases, the practice proves that the contracting authorities give exactly the same explanation, only to resubmit it as a result of this requirement. Moreover, in the commentary on the current law, we read that even those contracting authorities who wanted to rationalize this procedure had immediately given a reasoned notice to everyone at the start, and they also said, "We are giving you a reasoned notice in accordance with Article 79(3)." If I look at the current law, it's the position of the profession, the legal scratches: "No, no, no, if the tenderer asks, you have to do the same thing again." Formality, unnecessary formalities, red tape. I think that this is a thing that we needlessly drag on to this novel as well, and there is no need, and there are some such little things that are, in terms of accepting small things, but in practice there are very large substantive problems and great problems, especially because the procurement process due to the specifics is only a little longer procedure than if it were to go now, the Blackbell with one ceramic player is to talk to him about mounting tiles. It is normal that these procedures should be longer, that is to say, they will never be shorter than in the private sector, but they must be burdened with those activities that do not help to ensure the choice of the most favourable, most quality operator and that all providers are treated equally and protected. On the other hand, subscribers before their possible abuse. I think it would be a good thing that we sometimes listen to our friends in the European Union, because they have put a lot through and they can solve things differently, even though they can make things a little more complicated than we do. However, I think that the path is the right one and that the direction is good and that this law is urgently needed, because this area is very large and as it breathes this area, it will also remain in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Janez Kramberger. He's not here. Mr Martin Mikolić has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Well, I'd get to this topic a little bit from another point of view. See, since the introduction of local self-government since 1995, the Court of Auditors has visited most of the municipalities in Slovenia, some of them several times. Most of the court's business reports, we all know that, were negative. And in the first place, the negative report was the cause of public procurement. But interestingly enough, there was no explanation to say that this was the reason for the law of public procurement. So, you don't get the illusion that according to the old law and this law there will be no negative reports. The main reason for the negative report was actually a contracting entity which did not comply with all the provisions laid down by the old law. And no one here today will be surprised by some of the data that we have heard in the meantime that, let's say, there was a contract for 50 units, and in the end the accounting situation was 100 units. Thus, we cannot even introduce certain specific provisions into this law, which would also prevent it. And we know who in the local community represents the contracting authority or, on the other hand, in the ministries. And if there are no sanctions on these matters, then we can have an ideal law on public procurement, and similar cases, as they have been in the past, will be implemented in the future. I think my colleague Bajc mentioned earlier that there is no definition of what that abnormally low price is. And he even mentioned what I said before, "Yes, but there was so much to offer, and then there was so much and so much more." It is clearly known that the offer is presented in price, for example, if I am talking about the case now, per unit, and this price cannot be changed in any way to the end. There may be extra work or increased workload, but these are other things again. So today, to explain, "I, how was it possible or why it was possible to do this under the previous law" - nothing was possible to do, nor was it possible under this law. And I am glad that this law adds those essential things to make things easier. In order to be able - what my colleagues or colleagues have said before me - to make the procurement process simpler. But once again, the contracting entity will still be able to spend these public funds in an honest way or in a unfair way at the final stage. And there will be more to be done on this segment in the future. I would add, however, that it would only be necessary to consider Article 48 in the interim or to reflect on it and that the contracting authority could award the contract on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer on the basis of the lowest price. Lowest price - completely easy. But on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer, it is a fairly relative concept, especially when we are talking about other criteria that must be included. I would not allow the contracting entity to keep the criteria to itself, especially if there is a price on one side or number one, and then there are other criteria. And how much percentage in these criteria is the price, somehow the legislator would just have to prescribe or distribute it in some areas, because abnormal things can come out of this end to find that someone who took the credit will pay later that the interest rate in banks is much more favourable to take the credit than to choose a much cheaper, more favourable provider. I would like to draw attention to this again from a practical case, because I know that this has happened in the past. And to conclude, I am really glad that we have this material ahead of us, that it is a step forward and that there will also be something else to add. But I am also sure that for everyone, and also how it should be complemented, it will never be ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you. Member Daniel Krivec has the floor. He's not here. Member Cyril Testen has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I miss those proponents of public debate in the Chamber. I think that they have been gone for a long time and that they are not very interested in this public debate or that any of the results of this public debate would be. I think that the main reason why the public debate was proposed is that things would be somewhat delayed. As far as the law on public procurement is concerned, I believe that this law, as well as this general one, is necessary. We have on all committees, including the Committee on Budgetary Control, which has a lot to do with the revision of public procurement or public procurement reports, have often identified and wishes have been expressed that the Law on Public Procurement should be amended to make it poorly available. And from this point of view, I think it's mainly the substantive reason that the law changes. In addition, the directive is being followed, which I also think is our task, although many European countries in the Union have not yet fulfilled these Directives. Personally, in the new law, the principle of the economy of public procurement is particularly interesting. It's in principle. I think this principle is very interesting, it is very well described, but I think it will be difficult to implement this principle. To determine in which case an annex to a public contract is justified, in which it is not, I think this will be very difficult to implement. However, I must say that the principle is, as I welcome it, but I do not know, and I would like to hear from the proponents if they can explain more precisely how this principle will be applied or implemented. Another very good thing about the new procurement procedures is a competitive dialogue for me. I think that this is a very important and very good thing, which will certainly help to make it much easier for suppliers and contracting authorities to agree and that they will also get much better solutions for all those, because those who order many times do not know certain segments or technologies. Then the integration of secondary policies. The integration of secondary policies is mainly meant to involve or give small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to merge into one provider. It even says here that it is not necessary that they are formally linked, which I think is right, although in practice so far it has been difficult. Now I hope this will be a little easier. This is also about various other organizations, disabled organizations, etc. In this integration of secondary policies, it is particularly important to me. If we are looking at large public contracts, these local suppliers are in the current situation set aside from the realisation of these public contracts. I am afraid that even with the help of this law it will not be much better, because if we have those common orders that are performed for example, as we have ordered the operating tables, which among other things caused us a lot of headaches, they are made from one centre, then it is said that all these local ones - but I do not know if the tables are the best case because the providers of the table are not very large, but there are other cases, of these various local suppliers in the field of nutrition, and in other areas, very interesting - they do not have the right opportunities. As far as financial discipline is concerned. I think that this is to be welcomed and that this option is very welcome, that if the principal contracting authority does not fulfil its obligations to subcontractors, these things are also used. In general, I think that this law will still have to be thoroughly processed in the second reading on the committees. True, we have had many formal and informal discussions about him. We all know that it needs to be changed, but when we are looking for solutions to change this law, we usually don't have a lot of suggestions. That is why I think that the direction of preparation is the right one and that any comments that are yet to be made should be tried to include and drafted such a law that will produce better results. But it would certainly be illusory to expect that the marriage would solve everything. We expect that the law will now suddenly solve all the problems related to public procurement. This will not be the case, the problems of public procurement will remain because they are of great interest because they are large assets and because the people who make these offers can find faults even in the best laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you. Allow me to join you with my personal surprise that there is not one in the hall of those who have requested an extensive discussion. However, the word is given by Ambassador Villa Trophynik. [[He's not in the hall.]] I give the word to Ambassador Joseph Jerovska. [[He's not in the hall.]] Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I think our colleagues are probably reviewing the submitted nominations and preparing the strategy and that is why they are not. In the introduction, I would also say that, on the part of their Group of Members, I have heard that the government is eight months behind schedule. Thus, another month of additional delays have been added to this public debate and I would expect them to participate and participate in this debate as Members. Otherwise, I'd like to start by saying the following. I think it's been a long time since that secretary Milojka Kolar said here that about 10% of public procurement funds go into private pockets. If we're talking about a total of 450, 500 billion, then that means that they knew long ago what kind of assets it was, but they didn't do it to prevent it; and by this law today, the actual proposer is interfering with this axis of procurement. I have listened with interest to all the mayors, I think they are very well aware of the law, that they are also great experts in this area, that they know this well and that, of course, we can get a good marriage with their help. I hope not to be written on his skin, because for the most part, if I take these local orders, for most of the increases in these values and complications, etc. They're actually guilty of themselves, and then I'm going to explain why I think so, with some cases. It seems to me that the greatest value of this law is that this law speaks of the public opening of tenders. I think this will make the most of transparency. But this public opening of bids, if then followed by an upgrade of the law resolution where the complaint will arise, and if the complaint, which will be dealt with in a favourable manner, would also constitute any sanctions for those who have caused the complaint to occur. However, if that is not the case, I agree with those who have debated before me that the law itself will not make significant progress in this area. For the fact is, if all were to be honest and economical, then in fact we would not need this law, but not many others; but because we are of a human nature, that we have all but the deviations of the opposite hand to ourselves, and then we need strong laws. I propose to the proposers that perhaps the most attention should be paid to where there have been deviants in the past in this area to look at - and I will count some of them. I could list a lot of them, but since there is no time limit, I will remind you of some things that have been very receptive in the Slovenian public. Let's say the so-called affair, because I don't know if it was yellow or was an orange disk, and in the process, the offer changed and it turned out, you all know that. It is necessary to regulate the law in such a way that it will not be possible to do so, or when it is found that there will be no fault in the end that the snowman who picked up that disk when cleaning on the floor and put it on the table will actually find the one who knew what was on that disk is, who was also aware of what was in it, what the offer is on the other disks, that someone would then answer that to fly a head, and I do not think in the correct sense of the word, but that it will follow a certain penalty. If the law doesn't allow it, then there'll be a dead letter on the paper. From local areas, that is, congregation oversight, we could develop so many stories, so many cases, that we could roll. All of us who are active at local level know very well how these things work. Well, if I mention only two cases from a local level, such as a time frame for the reconstruction of the school, it was necessary to reconstruct the school as a whole within one month. Of course, if you don't do it in one month, then they follow the penalty every day. And when you set your hands and set all these conditions, the penalty follows, and the one who is a serious bidder won't sign up, because he knows if he doesn't do it within one month or he can't do it within one month, he'll pay that much and that much. There's only one offer, that offer is five minutes before the 12th, and then they're following negotiations, and then we'll agree on the price we want. We could find cases like this on Dars. The first invitation to tender was cancelled, the second invitation to tender was cancelled and the third was negotiated and the price was two billion higher and so on. If this government is able to resolve this, then it has made one of the biggest shifts in public finances spending in this country, because it is actually a pit that has no bottom and into which huge social resources will disappear. Another example at local level, a public offering of a particular plot, because a third bidder interferes with this offer, offered of all the highest price, cancellation of the invitation to tender, re-sell and not more, but the allocation of the building right and then sells over one year and so on. I don't understand myself very much on public contracts, I've never done them, but I've watched and watched from the side like this, how things shouldn't be done, how things shouldn't be done, and what it means to be dishonest in this process, what it means to adopt in some way by putting a business in the hands of a return rating. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] All this is, Mrs Pečanova, of course, evidentiary and the law must be written in such a way that it is not possible to play these matters differently. That's how the law has to be laid. Of course, those who play must be held responsible for such an act. But if that's not the case, and I say it again, then the marriage is a dead letter on paper. And not just state calls, local communities, municipalities, mayors in this area are real masters, so you know all those lines of exercise. But those who are watching you and watching you under such legislation as we can't see anything, we can't see it all, we can point to it in public, and I have only this privilege to speak as a Member of Parliament, or many people could say a lot about it, if they had this opportunity, but they don't have this option. If we arrange matters in such a way that the public opening of bids and that everyone will have access to them, then I think that much will be resolved. I will say again if it is also properly sanctioned. That's what I'd say about this marriage. I didn't touch much of the content itself, the very solutions that are enshrined in this law. I'd like to touch just one of them, and I've warned you that many times. These public contracts should facilitate the supply of local markets for agricultural products. This is the supply of products produced on farms, both hospitals, other establishments and so on. Here, in some ways, we could allow these institutions to be directly supplied on farms and that they do not need to carry out all these endless procedures. Perhaps this is even resolved, but I would like to point out once again that we are in a country where agricultural production in gross social products falls year after year, because we have fewer and fewer and fewer farmers where we have more and more housing, and if we do not think about how rural agriculture will not be without agriculture, that we will not be able to maintain the cultivation of Slovenian landscape at such a level without farmers, then here, in this public debate, I suggest you think again - government service, how to arrange this in such a way that it will be easy and that these public institutions can instead of go after some item in Mercator - I unnecessarily named this name, in fact I wanted to say to some commercial network - that they can supply directly to the farmer. This would greatly help our agriculture to enable this complementary activity and thus preserve a variety of vulnerable rural jobs in the perspective. We in Novi Slovenija will support this law and hope that it will contribute to the failure, as my colleague Mikolić has said before me, to start a business with 50 units in the public tender and end with 150 in the end so that it will not be signed for some basic work, I do not know how many annexes and so on. Everything you do in this direction will be very strongly supported in New Slovenia. And another matter that I almost forgot about is the real payment non-discipline, the case of Majšperk primary school is one of the freshest, such and similar cases should not happen, the law must be resolved so that subcontractors who do the work will be paid for it, even if this idea is to go directly to the subcontractor by the Ministry. In fact, it was there that the state indicated the money, the state paid everything to the main contractor, and the congregation, and then subcontractors had to negotiate and negotiate through criminal services, courts and so on for their payment. I think that this law foresees, and this solution to make it easier for the law to be so that those who have done the work will actually have a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. [[He's quitting.]] Member Boyan Starman has the floor. [[...]] I invite the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! On behalf of the Government, I thank you for your views, comments, suggestions, opinions. I think that it will also be possible for the government to define and adopt solutions to these issues and opinions, which will be the best for the public procurement system. Allow me, however, to answer some of the questions raised in the debate, or some of the views and dilemmas faced by lawmakers. One question was whether it was specified or not when the government would appoint the contracting authority. Here, of course, I must say that the contracting authority will be established on the basis of a regulation, on the basis of Article 115, the government must adopt a regulation within three months, so that there should be no additional questions from this point of view so that this procedure is not transparent. With regard to the question of an unusually low price. Here we must say that in Article 109, a criminal provision penalising the contracting authority with a fine if the final price for the execution of the contract is higher than other tenders which have not been selected. These fines are of course greater and also ensure that the law is respected and that there is actually some responsibility for all those involved in the procurement process. The issue of the complexity of the law on the one hand and, on the other hand, the issue of simplifications. In procurement proceedings, the drafter of the law faced the question of which procedures were to be simplified and which were more difficult, particularly in order to ensure that all procedures were legitimate as far as possible. The law proposes a joint purchasing body that can be established on the basis of the interest of several contracting authorities, in particular from this point of view, to assist those who do not have sufficient human resources. On the other hand, there is also a procedure whereby a single contract can be combined for several contracting entities, thus also achieving the cost-effectiveness of the procedure. The Government or the Ministry of Finance also has the power to advise on public procurement. As I mentioned earlier, the government weighed flexibility and transparency in the drafting of this law. Here I must say that the overriding, which has been repeatedly mentioned, on the one hand also requires longer procurement procedures; and this is mainly a matter of higher value contracts, while for lower value orders procedures should be simpler and even more uniform. The law is adapted to the value of public procurement, which means, in other words, that the rules of the European Union are fully taken over by European limit values and that the procedures are simplified below the thresholds in force in Europe. So from this point of view, this somehow led, but there are always borderline cases. It's about cutting deadlines. The deadlines are reduced, maximized in those procedures that are under European law, and here the order can actually last three or ten days. And in terms of simplification, it is technically possible to complement offers up to the fact itself or to accept certain offers in order to complement them in a substantive sense, but this cannot be ensured. Of course, there is also a question of the principle of economy and the implementation of this principle of economy. This provides for the selection of a suitable procedure to ensure competition, to clearly determine the criteria and conditions and the extent to which the contract is adapted; and nevertheless, the contracting authority shall be responsible for transparent spending under the Public Finance Act itself, in order to actually do as much as possible with the funds concerned. Finally, I would like to mention that there is also a law on the revision of public procurement procedures in preparation, and this law will also follow the approach so that criminal liability will be further regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you. Given that we still have time for the 17th item, 2 hours and 8 minutes, I ask on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure who would like to discuss it. That's why I'm opening the application. Two Members have applied for the debate, the first being Mr Bojan Starman, within the agreed time limit of 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly. The essence of implementing the Public Procurement Act is to ensure that the contracting authority provides as much as possible a favourable offer or that it receives a certain item for as little money as possible. I don't think the answer I've received right now is convincing me, or there's not a single guardian or sanction in this bill that would prevent the contracting entity from accepting a price that is above average, which is abnormal or unreasonable. Thus, in combination with the criteria, in combination with the invitation to tender and all cases, it is still not excluded that someone chooses the irrationally high price of the tenderer to agree with, and I think that it should be more precise in sanctions, if not elsewhere, in some way. Now it says if it changes in the negotiations by more than that percentage and so on. The fact is that there must be some fear or some criteria that must be more precise than Mr Mikolić used to say, the relationship between price and other factors, already in this law, in order to prevent this. I think this space is a possible act of law, an irrational spending of money in public contracts and any other things that might come to this. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , bribery and such matters that this place must be better closed in some way within the law itself. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you. The last Member to be tabled is Mr Jakob Preseknik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! I will say that, unlike a few debaters, I think the general debate on this law is positive, because this way we get a little time and the proponent gets this shorter time to really think about some of the solutions that I think and our assessment are still needed, according to the assessment of the Group of Members. One of these things that we need to agree on until the second hearing is whether we may not have a little too many matters, or whether we are trying a little too many things or trying to solve with the sub-laws, and which things would indicate from the sub-laws, possibly the ones envisaged, that we might try to get into law and make law more appropriate. In general, I am convinced that the responsibility for public procurement, the spending of this common money or state money or budgetary money is the responsibility of the contracting authorities. And all those thesis and assumptions, if we have such and such and fair and unfair and, I don't know what other contractors or providers, of course it doesn't. All contractors, bidders fighting for their business. After all, they have the right to make every effort to get a job. Contractors, service providers employ people, hire taxpayers, give bread to Slovenes and Slovenes. And the responsibility lies, of course, with the contracting authorities, now I will say gravely, in the ministries, in the municipalities, in the bodies of various ministries and so on. So we made some of these comments in good faith or with the good intention of trying to make some adjustments to the second treatment, and in the end, the law will not be so drastic as one of our colleagues said before that 10% of this money goes into a private pocket. So, I find this horrifying, completely incomprehensible, I can't understand a figure like that at all. But if the number is true, if a few percent of what has been said is true, then there is something very wrong in our country and I am obviously too optimistic about this crime - because it is of course already a serious crime - that this crime in Slovenia is not so much. However, if it is part of it, some of the solutions in this law need to be carefully considered so as not to occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the last one, i.e. the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendment and Supplementation of the Law on Inventory. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Milan Petko. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Milan Petko requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposed law for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Bottler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Member and Members! I have the opportunity to present a bill drawn up by my first-signed fellow Member Milan Petek, under which we have also signed some other Members. The fundamental idea of this law is to try to solve the housing problem in particular for young families, even in the light of or in particular in the light of recent changes in income legislation. As you know, the new Income Act, which we're going to get at the National Assembly table next week, on Tuesday and Wednesday, is abolishing 4% of the aid to solve the housing problem. As a result, about 8% of taxpayers, or 102,000 taxpayers, will be affected by housing problems in 2006. Above all, it should be stressed that such a measure is directed primarily by young families who are yet to solve housing problems and who have not been able to build houses in the past, to obtain housing or an adequate place to stay. The changes we propose to all taxpayers who solve the problem either in the form of renting a loan or in the form of a financial lease allow for a tax credit, with the fact that we are trying to make this tax credit available to everyone in the same amount, in other words. The current solution, which was built into income, also had certain shortcomings. The disadvantage was that the discount was given as a percentage, i.e. 4% of the appropriate base, could be used mainly by the most wealthy or the highest-income. We are trying to solve this in the same way as in some other comparable countries, to introduce the tax credit that is foreseen in the nominal amount, which means that debtors from different income classes have the same opportunity to take advantage of the housing relief that they are solving their housing problem. In particular, I would like to point out that there are around 800,000 taxpayers in the first tax year, who, with the new income reform that we will have at the table next week, on Tuesday and Wednesday, are practically getting at a monthly level a negligible amount of about 889 tolars. So much will be left by the state after the new, because it will leave them with a little more income through the higher relief. 889 tolars a month do not really have much money, I hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Coalition Members agree. Above all, it is the fact that some other reliefs are being abolished at the same time. I mentioned myself as the most beautiful apartment relief. So it seems to us, or calculations have shown, that some will soon find that even worse in this case. And again, this is a special area for young families, young families that do not yet have a housing problem, in fact, are now losing the possibility of exploiting this housing facility. In addition, the government has halved the savings premiums in the national housing savings scheme, mortgage banking has not yet been sufficiently developed, housing relief has now been abolished; and I would like to point out in particular that this is in sharp contrast to some of the basic objectives of this government, which has repeatedly stressed that it is also about increasing fertility, in order to resolve demographic policy. And, of course, I wonder how the government wants to achieve this, but if it abolishes housing relief if it eliminates the possibility for young families to save themselves for housing purposes, or if part of their income allocated to them to solve the housing problem is taken into account in the tax assessment. I believe that the proposed law, which we are submitting as a group of Members with first-signed colleague Milan Petk, is a suitable basis for further consideration. What is particularly important is once again, in this way, if the law is adopted in the form proposed, the net is actually increased for the most young families who want to take advantage of the tax credit that this law also introduces. Of course, we also have a whole bunch of cases, a whole bunch of calculations made, so we prepared a calculation for the example of people with the same gross and net salary and applying at the monthly level of a dependent family member. The net monthly salary for both is now, for example, $183 000 and is taxed at 16% tax rate. A person applying only 2% relief for various purposes - in 2006 he received a return of 5,768 tolls for 2005. A person applying 2% relief for various purposes and 4% for solving the housing problem received a return of 17.304 toll in 2006. What happens after the new legislation? Both pay a net increase to 184.25 tolars or 1025 tolars per month, at an annual level of 12,300 tolars, but they both lose the possibility of applying allowances, so they will not receive a refund of income in such amounts as I mentioned earlier. Thus, the person who has already solved the housing problem will be better at 6,532 tolars due to higher wages and no refund of income, the person who in 2006 has been granting relief to solve the housing problem will also increase his salary, while, of course, he will lose the opportunity to pay his income back, or because he will lose that opportunity, but will together be worse by 5,000 tolars. In short, here the calculations show very quickly what the problem is. You have two groups of taxpayers. On the one hand, those who already have housing issues and do not save for these purposes, on the other hand, those who are, of course, younger, young families who save for these purposes. In particular, if you take two young people with relatively high incomes, you lose their right to child support. Even when paying for kindergartens, they are practically in the highest grade due to high incomes because there is no consideration or knowledge of how to pay attention. In fact, those who are without wealth, young people who have yet to create either a house or an apartment, are here in a significantly worse situation and can also say discriminatory treatment. In fact, it is not right to put them in some position, as if they already have the housing and all the questions solved. And tax credit is the only way to help those who do not yet have a housing issue to address this housing issue to take due account when paying their income. This also seems particularly important to me because we know what it was like in the past, if you want to be in the '80s. Many times in this National Assembly we hear about how everything was bad and wrong in the totalitarian system and I do not know what else in the past, but we know that during the 1980s, the period of high inflation was also marked by the fact that it was possible to obtain very favourable housing loans to solve the housing problem, and many Slovenians and Slovenes at that time were able to build houses, even at the expense of later high inflation. That's a fact. This is in some ways all citizens and citizens are now paying through public debt, especially young families. Young people who have, say, both high incomes, and now become a young family, both have relatively solid incomes and are therefore not entitled to a child allowance, because they are statistically high incomes, they are placed in the highest pay grade for children in kindergarten, and at the same time they are not granted any relief when they want to solve the housing issue. I think that this actually means that we can say that young families in this country are in a significantly worse position than some other citizens and citizens. And here I really appeal to all Members of Parliament and Members to support this bill. To talk about how the government now increases overall relief and will all be better, but it is very clever to speak, simply because, as I have already shown from previous data, those who do not yet have a solved housing issue are in a significantly worse position because they are forced to save for something that has not yet been resolved, while the government is predicting that the government will have to save or pay for an additional provision, for age care when they arrive in older years, that they especially need to save for additional pension insurance. Nor is it admitted to them that they do not yet have housing and many houses built. Then what kind of company do we have? We have a society where young people are forced to live either at home or unable to create a nest and cannot have a suitable one. Even as far as the child is concerned, this has its consequences. Therefore, I would like to point out that if anything, then this law, which allows for tax credit, as I said, especially for young families, if anything is in line with the government's goal of increasing fertility, can really help this law, so I ask all of you kindly to support this legal solution as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr State Secretary Mag. Widespread for an introductory presentation of the opinion. For a pay phone, please, we usually present opening presentations there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! This proposal actually proposes a revised tax relief concept, which is based on tax credit, which means that at these rates we have today and we have actually high progressive rates, this means for all taxpayers to have equal tax relief. Of course, those who, for the first time, will be applying full credit and, secondly, those who actually have a reason to enforce this tax credit, that is to say, in this case, that these funds will be used to solve the housing problem. What exactly is the problem or weakness of tax credit? The first weakness is that taxpayers have to take full credit into account and if they cannot take account of it because they have lower incomes, such credit may actually become a subsidy or transferable to the next tax period, which means a very large administrative complication or means that additional administrative procedures must be established both with the taxpayer and with the tax authority in order to effectively determine the transfer of unused credit within the next period or that it is not actually possible to do so. In other words, tax relief in the form of tax credit becomes a tax subsidy or direct transfer. Such a system is based on the fact that in Slovenia, tax reliefs have been established since 1990 according to the level of the tax base, and this has also been adapted in the past to the progressiveness of this tax, in fact also means a change in the area of direct transfers. Today, social transfers take into account the current tax relief regime in the Income Act and the related reduction of the tax base to which we are actually witnessing. In the professional public and in other public opinion it is known that in Slovenia today, taxation of natural persons is defined by highly progressive taxation of income. This raises the question of the correctness of a system based on tax credit. In short, on the one hand, we take into account the progressiveness in determining the tax liability; on the other hand, when determining tax savings, we do not take this progressiveness into account, but we do indeed take into account certain fixed amounts. In addition to the administrative complication, the solution proposed - which means that the tax credit would be taken into account at the level of the deposit - changes in procedural solutions also in other legislation, in particular in the context of the tax procedure law. The Tax Procedure Act lays down the obligation to collect and pay taxes. I would also like to say here the international comparability of such a solution. In particular, the European Union countries do not have uniformly regulated solutions to the housing problem. The analysis shows the following: there are no 9 countries; the relief, which means a reduction of the tax base, has 8 countries, and the reduction of tax liability is facilitated by 8 countries. Thus, for example, the facilitations do not actually have Austria, Germany, Slovakia, Latvia, Malta, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Turkey and Cyprus. Olejšava, as we have it, has Belgium, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland and Norway. In order to reduce the tax liability, such solutions are known in Hungary, Portugal, Greece, France, Spain, Italy, Finland and Ireland. From this point of view, we can identify or find that we do not actually have a single solution in the European Union and that other countries here also take account of different solutions, from the fact that one of them does not actually have existing facilities, the other have one of those procedures. In view of the new legislation already adopted by the Government and to be considered by the National Assembly next week, it must be said that certain solutions are also included in this legislation that facilitate the purchase of housing. This includes subsidies belonging to young families as an incentive for the first resolution of the housing issue under the law governing the national housing scheme and subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue. The tax also excludes interest from the savings contract under the national housing scheme, which is concluded for a period of at least 5 years. However, certain solutions are, of course, also made in the context of a general relief increasing from EUR 2522 to EUR 2800 and, in fact, the National Assembly has already adopted legislation in March 2006 on the basis that it is possible to actually enforce or use mortgage loans. For these reasons, the Government proposes not to support the National Assembly's proposal for a law as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Han, my colleague, on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected secretary with a co-worker, a respected council. Let me begin by saying that I am aware of the fate of this bill and I know that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act will not receive support. They will certainly be heard many times, and to a large extent, the excuses that have already been fully used will be completely exhausted. It is also clear to me that a key problem, or error, is that a proposal by the opposition, which must be rejected because of clear guidelines from the top of the country. We will also be able to hear the answer that the government is preparing a comprehensive proposal for amendments, which we can also call tax reform. Unfortunately, however, the government's tax reform proposals do not follow the objectives of reducing tax pressure on the economy, but I could say the opposite, but also on the housing policy segment, the tax reform for the Social Democrats is bad. Despite the moderate cold that the ruling coalition shows up to most of the problems of the people and people of Slovenia, we are convinced by the Social Democrats that it is necessary not only to listen to people but also to solve problems. Social Democrats are the party that we make to people, stand for their ideas, their innovation and their entrepreneurship. We are convinced that people need to be supported and not just waved with their hands, as is now the secretary with their hand in their pocket, when they expect help in solving their problems. Let me be more specific. It is equally interesting to see government ministers who not only act in an uncoordinated way, but even try to take the rights granted by one measure back by another. If I make a joke, I can say it's a kind of reverse Robin Hood who takes the income-sensitive so the rich have more. We have always advocated that the country should be able to listen to those who need a roof over their heads, and above all we want to help young people, those who want to create a family. We don't believe it's possible to raise children outside of warm homes. In the parliamentary group, we supported additional measures in the area of housing policy already when adopting the 2006/2007 budget. We have proposed many amendments, under every tax legislation, which has not been limited in Slovenia recently and in this mandate. I therefore hope that you will listen to the comments and amendments made by the Social Democrats on housing issues when adopting the income law on Tuesday, Wednesday. That is why we will be even more concerned when we listen, for example, to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is very loud when he speaks about national politics, while at the same time listening to the Minister for Finance, who not only supports housing policy, proposes in his reform that all the benefits of solving housing and living problems be abolished. So the government doesn't know what the left and right sides are doing. It is also nice to listen to Minister Drobnič when he thanks the Roman Catholic Church for seeing the issue of greater fertility in a timely and real sense. At the same time, however, this is very worrying. I don't think it's possible to increase the fertility of celibacy. Once again, the Social Democrats are convinced that people deserve the help of the state in solving housing problems. That is why we will support this bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Testen has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings from the presidents, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group we advocate an efficient and transparent tax system. We believe that with the upcoming tax reform we will also follow this objective. We have examined with interest the draft amendments to the Income Act tabled by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Milan Petko, as we are working for the social justice and youth-friendly legislation in the New Slovenia Group. The draft law is expected to have a negligible impact on the budget, according to the proposal. Such a negligible impact is expected to be affected by changes in legislation that do not achieve a change of up to 10 million tolars. Unfortunately, with simple calculations in our parliamentary group, we have found the exact opposite. According to the tax administration, 8.1% of the taxpayers were granted housing relief in 2005. According to the proposal of the law, the tax base would not be reduced by the beneficiaries, but would be reduced by the actual amount of tax. Assuming that the tax credit would enforce the same percentage of taxpayers as in the previous year, the effect on public finance would be slightly different from that of negligible. The additional reason that we will not support the bill in the New Slovenia Group is that a package of tax changes has already been introduced into the legislative procedure, which systematically approaches the taxation of natural and legal persons. The Group of Members and Members wishes to provide a social and just solution to the housing problem. We estimate that the same effect will be achieved in the context of the upcoming tax reform, as it is envisaged that the impact of housing benefits on the debtors will be compensated by an increase in general relief. In view of the fact that we have supported the Law on Municipal and Mortgage Bonds in the New Slovenia Group, we expect that mortgage banking will also be brought to life, which will enable more favourable sources of housing financing. With these arguments, our New Slovenia Group rejects support for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u94	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry! A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Milan Petk. Unfortunately, of all those who have signed this bill, there are colleagues and colleagues here. I think it also speaks of the seriousness of the proposal itself. The Law refers to a social and just relief to reduce housing problems. The goal of the new law is good, positive, and is supposed to solve one of the biggest problems in our society today, namely, housing problems or housing issues. Of course, the housing problem needs to be solved and it needs to be solved. Much of it depends on it, and much of it also depends on a variety of other events in our society. In doing so, let me just mention the issue of fertility, as many studies show that, in particular, young and young families are a prerequisite for the creation of a new family, a new family community, a preliminary solution to the housing issue. Even though the aim of the law is good, an important question is asked in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. If the proposed amendment were enacted, the demand for housing would be increased, as would the applicants. However, the increase in demand would not, of course, reduce the economic logic of an offer that does not depend on this law, but would in particular undermine the square metre of the apartment. At the same time, of course, we wonder who would actually benefit from the impact of this amendment at an increased price. Individuals would pay less tax, which means that the country would lose some of its revenues. However, this does not seem to be a problem in itself, as on the other hand, social weaknesses could also impose a reduction in income payments due to the resolution of the housing problem. We are afraid that the increased price of dwellings would compensate for less paid taxes and, consequently, would mean that companies involved in the construction, transfer or sale of property and housing would be entitled to this account. In the Slovenian People's Party, we see a solution to the normalisation of housing prices in the increased offer of apartments. It is therefore necessary to further promote the construction of new and adaptation of existing housing capacities. Of course, we must also take into account the fact that a comprehensive tax reform has already been prepared, resulting from the simplicity and transparency of the definition of the tax base. This legislation will be dealt with in a short time, I think, Tuesday and Wednesday. The concept of this reform, however, is in increasing the overall ease and progressiveness of taxation. While in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we expect to find a solution in the consideration of the Income Act, which will follow the possible content of the purpose of today's Act on Income. In view of everything that has been said in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider that the law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is not a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is the word of a fellow Member of Peca, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u96	Your Honors are here! Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Pavlich, thank you for being so kind as to replace me in the leadership. As far as this law and all the problems related to this law are concerned, I think we should take the proposed tax reform as a starting point, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to my assessment, the binding of this law on tax reform is irrelevant. This National Assembly, MEPs and Members are still unaware of the consequences of the proposed tax reform. We still don't know whether there will be a VAT rise or there will be a VAT hike. We do not know today what the loss or loss in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be. Therefore, it is unacceptable to base the non-acceptance of that reason on the proposed future tax reform. In the first part, however, I would like to speak specifically on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income, as proposed by the opposition Members. In my firm belief and in the conviction of the National Party's Group, the law pursues those objectives set out in the assessment and the reasons for the adoption of the law. The amendment of the law seeks to provide a more socially just solution to housing problems. That's all that comes out of this law. The law, which follows a positive social objective and which would be, at the primary stage, absolutely to be supported by any Member of the national assembly. Regrettably, too, he believes that the proposal for the Act is too much. The law before us, once again, is positive in pursuing this objective. Hereinafter, the bill's proponents point to something, in my opinion, an accurate statement or a following objective. This means that today or in existing legislation there will be substantial differences in the financing in question for people with high monthly incomes, compared with those with average or lower incomes. In addition to the above, this law seeks to introduce a new balance sheet in order to equalize, regardless of monthly income, a lower rate or people with lower monthly income. We also welcome the law from this title. I would like to stress further that, in the context of the reason for the adoption of laws, we have a very good example of how to calculate what a change of law would mean in a positive light. It is also logical that, as proposed by the applicants, it is stated in paragraph 4 that the proposed amendment to the Income Act in addition to the tax credit allows for the introduction of a so-called tax credit for taxable persons who impose a tax credit to address housing problems. I was literally quoting the proponents on purpose, and this quote ended with a word, a housing issue. And here, I think, is the lack of consistency in monitoring the target, which is a housing issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we who are present today, who have the opportunity to debate, listen to the question of the price of real estate in any city congregation in our country. Is any young family capable of reaching real estate with average or high income? The answer is no. In Ljubljana, property is reached by catastrophically high amounts. The square in itself will be marketed and, in my opinion, it is not market-oriented but exceeds the European forerunners. This law alone will not be concrete, emphasis on concrete, do nothing to bring the apartment closer to the individual family. However, I would like to point out to the Slovenian National Party a new vision from this city and from the available time, as it is available, which I believe will be misunderstood mainly because I will probably misinterpret it. According to our assessment, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as an executive branch of government or as a legislative branch of government, were to make real efforts to address the reduction of housing policy issues, they should set a ceiling for housing prices in the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are so close to doing this, especially on the basis of the property records that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is carrying out or has carried out in the Republic of Slovenia. What I'm trying to say is that we have a property record already established in the law. I think we passed that law at the April session. The record was therefore specifically called a law, a law with exceptional financial implications. Then there were various concerns about why such a record, why the record of kitchen windows, why the record of surfaces and similar things. If the National Assembly has already decided to carry out a real estate record in the Republic of Slovenia, then use this record not only for the additional burden, but also for the tax burden of citizens and citizens, but through this record, to determine the maximum price for the housing area, should be within a unit of square meters. By such a measure, so that the state regulates the ceiling, they would cause the spiral caused today by individual market lobbying and banks with their loans. Now, allow me to refer to the above-mentioned law. This law would encourage mortgage loans in its content. This law in its content promotes a national austerity scheme, which can be positive at the outset. We're bringing people closer to a source of funding. But if we take this step forward and look at what the source of funding is, and if we know that the credit is overpaid in the 30s for almost 100%, that the property on the market is worth 30 million, through a credit in the 30s goes up to 60 million, we have to ask ourselves if we made the borrowers, let's say young families, with this service. I don't think so. However, it will not be able to repay the loan, either on the basis of a mortgage or on the basis of a preliminary savings under the housing national scheme. And according to my assessment, if we were really trying to make it easier for young families or families at all, individuals, individuals, individuals, because it doesn't matter, to make it easier to get to their real estate, to make it easier for them to get to their apartment, not their house, their apartment, whatever, then I think we should stop this dizzyingly unjustifiable rise in real estate prices. From month to month, we can see that real estate investment is the best investment within our country. Profits on the real estate market are better than those on the securities market. And it doesn't make sense here. By causing and allowing this dizzying rise in real estate prices, we are moving away from the vast majority of Slovenians. I know, I will be aware that I am against market legality, that the price of real estate should be determined by supply and demand, but ladies and ladies, also by this kind of tax policy, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of its tax reform or in the context of the existing fiscal burdens on real estate, we must be aware that we are making supply and demand. Offering mainly through this part because we speak to people because the funding options are not saying that these funding options are extremely negative and that no one, I apologize, not all of them, but the vast majority of people who decide on mortgage loans should be without a 50 % deposit, we must be aware, in the meantime, that we have a large offer of foreign banks that even mortgage loans without a deposit allow, we are moving the ownership of Slovenians over real estate. And in my opinion, therefore, meeting such "perpartes" cases will not lead to what the law essentially monitors. But in the long run, this is only one of those elements of how to bring credit policies of financial institutions closer to citizens and citizens. But at what cost, that's a question to be asked. It is not in our interest that all housing issues are resolved through the national scheme and through the indebtedness of citizens and citizens. It would be in our interest to offer them funding that does not rely on Oderuk interest, which does not amount to a few decades of return, and that can be achieved only through the fixing of the prices of real estate, especially in the city’s municipalities, that is to say in other municipalities. And if we look at the real estate price ratio, we can say with certainty that the real estate prices in Ljubljana are several times above their real value. And with such measures, we will only increase to increase these property prices because we will achieve an illusion or give an illusion to citizens and citizens, that this is only within the reach of their deadlines, even if it is not true. We thus move away from real estate, solving housing problems for individuals and individuals, especially those who are prepared to achieve the goal of solving housing problems, going into a credit relationship, of course the borrower, not as a lender, for 30 or 50 years. We're not doing our country any favors. In my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have to take advantage of the moment on the threshold today, in order not to repeat myself excessively. This is a property record in the Republic of Slovenia. Specify the upper limit, not the lower limit, to be normal within the limits and to be fixed for the next 10 years. At the same time, of course, foreigners with higher purchasing power would not be entitled to such conditions. I once heard, yes, Slovenia or Ljubljana become the European capital, that the prices of properties in Ljubljana should be closer to Paris. In fact, prices are similar in Ljubljana and Paris. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much more purchasing power in France than in Slovenia. I don't know any, but I think I know quite a few people my age, who would be in Ljubljana, in the center of Ljubljana, able to buy a new building. That's sad. Not by such measures either. And what can we achieve? We can achieve this by introducing control over the real estate market. This would be a positive action by this National Assembly, which would be appropriate by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if it followed the interest to solve the housing problem. I thank the Vice-President for not interrupting me because I have moved away from the content of the law. On the other hand, I would like to say that by adopting this bill, which is now before us and signed by ten opposition Members, we can solve the case or two in the short term because of more favourable funding, not because of the other, but because of the short term. In the long term, this more favourable funding only means that more people will opt for such financial support as the existing financial institutions offer. And irrespective of ownership of financial institutions, let these, owned by the Republic of Slovenia and managed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, make a profit. We have created them into stock companies, into capital companies whose interest is to make profits. And to make a profit, they're led by the way of a shading interest. But, of course, we can no longer influence interest. This is what the Republic of Slovenia, with a fundamental constitutional charter on the transformation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Bank of Maribor - I think this was in early 1994 - renounced. This dictates the market, this dictates demand, this is dictated by our people, who, of course, are incapable of, and also never, regrettably, will not be able to pay the left share of real estate from their own pocket, but will always be forced to resort to credit - to credit which, according to my assessment, will destroy or at least help make their lives harder for 30 or 40 years, with the uncertain future of employment as we have in the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to - or so, nor do I have to reply, please just consider the option to determine the highest possible price of real estate and thus block it and not let individual lobbyists or so-called privatisationists [[End warning sign]] tycoons who still have capital serve because young families have to rent loans that in any way prevent a bright future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much for presenting the position, which was actually a little broad but related to the proposal. I give the floor to Mr Yelen to present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members of the Ministry! In the DeSUS parliamentary group, we will not support the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Income Act tabled in the parliamentary procedure by a group of Members with first-signed Milan Petko. The proposal provides that all taxpayers would have the same amount of tax savings and the same amount of increase in net wages as the lower and upper limit of the so-called tax credit to address the housing problem, particularly for young and young families. We oppose such a proposal in our parliamentary group because the government has already regulated such matters in some laws, and now the government's proposal for a law on income is already included in the so-called tax package, which we will deal with next week at an extraordinary meeting. We estimate that the drafter of the law with such changes will not fully or entirely solve housing problems for young people or tax reliefs. Given that, as such, the government has assessed it to be inappropriate and inappropriate and that it has also prepared a proposal for a law on income, we will not support DeSUS Members of this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you for your introduction. Here comes the presentation of the National Community Parliamentary Group. The presentation is to be carried out by Member Maria Pozsonec, who is not in the Chamber. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation will not support or support the proposal for a decision that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. It is nice, likes such a proposal to reduce taxes or to give relief. Perhaps I could make another suggestion, perhaps the income will be abolished. I think we need to look at other aspects. The housing problem is pressing in Slovenia, housing prices are high. I think that in fact the state is doing too little to allow young families in particular to obtain housing. However, this proposal is somewhat sinister, and no one has touched on the way and implementation of this proposal. If we estimate that it builds, upgrades or pays loans for housing in Slovenia 200,000, it can also be 500,000 inhabitants of Slovenia as many as 200,000 tolars, it is said, give them, reduce taxes by 50 to 100 billion tolars, I do not know if anyone has had in mind such a large number because this is not about reducing the base, but it is about tax credit, as it is called, but these are quite large amounts. Therefore, such a proposal is not meant to be taken seriously by those who would obtain it, but rather to be more dedicated to the envisaged adoption of a new package of tax legislation in this national assembly. We need to know that if this proposal goes forward with the procedure, then another proposal that is prepared for the procedure cannot go forward, so I think the purpose of this proposal was more to stop this process of amending tax legislation in some way. This is why we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, there is an open possibility for similar proposals in the consideration of the proposed laws, which I think will soon come to these benches and we will then discuss on a realistic basis possible options. I would also like to say something else that I have observed over a longer period of time that we are here to warm up in this direction, how to increase or how to reduce various tax burdens, but we are not so warm when we talk about this and how to reduce public spending. Of course, the only condition and only realistic option is to lower taxes, reduce public spending and allow our system to be more competitive, our economy more competitive, and in this way we will be able to create more and then share more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we will support the proposed law. I have already talked about the substantive reasons, given that we are also members of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and that, as a whole, the Club of Members has supported this bill, so I would not have to go back for all the reasons. I would like to point out once again that this tax credit is about the fact that it is being resolved helps to address the housing issue of young families in particular. That the fact that the existing arrangement was poor was that 4% of the housing relief favoured those with the highest income. Those with slightly lower reliefs could not take full advantage of them anyway. The essence of the tax credit is to enable all young people, in the same nominal amount, to benefit from housing relief and thus to help them solve the housing problem. Let me now give you a concrete case that I have already mentioned. For example, if you have someone with a net salary of 184 thousand tolars and if you take into account the proposed government changes to the income law that we will have on the table next Tuesday and Wednesday, where, on the one hand, there is a fact that the overall relief increases, housing relief and some others are practically missed, if that marriage proposal that you will, I believe, be supported by the coalition Members and Members next week, combined with this bill that we are considering today, in this case it would mean that the person who solves the housing problem better at the annual level for 198 thousand 528 tolars per year, in view of these changes. However, since we are proposing to facilitate consumption at monthly level, a person could use an increase of net salary of 16 000 544 tolls per month to repay the principal and the interest on the housing loan. If I make a specific case now. For example, if someone repays a loan at monthly level at a third of a net salary of 61 000 tolars and has a net salary of 184 thousand tolars, according to our marriage proposal he could use 16 thousand 544 tolars of his monthly salary increase to facilitate payment of principal and interest. It is simply because, as I said earlier, young families, who feel the most vulnerable to this problem of housing and other real estate shortages, are helping to solve this kind of problem. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we have also taken into account the existing solutions to the Income Act and the fact is that we do not already have only a progressive system. When we talk about taxation of capital gains, it's a proportional system, it says, there's an exception, as far as progressiveity is concerned. If anyone claims by the government that this is an exception that undermines the existing concept of the Income Act, this would seem extremely controversial to me not to say perverse, taking into account the fact that we already have a proportional system, the real proportionality system is used in the case of capital gains tax. In particular, I would like to point out that, following this proposal, the law introducing tax credit is that the fact that this is taken into account already at the level of deposit is said during the year, because this is the very essence of allowing young families to unload their expenditure already at the monthly level during the year. It is also true that by the time of the new government proposal we had housing relief, it is not in the new proposal. To claim that, when we talk about the interest tax, interest is excluded from the national housing savings scheme, but, I will say, quite savvy work is because it is the fact that young people are not burdened in any way. To tell young people, since we will already allow you to do what you save on your own on a monthly basis, we do not tax this extra on interest, but I think it is very clever to do, especially since these exceptions are in some other cases. When we talked about the Liberal Democracy Group, for example, about the taxation of interest received by denationalisation holders, we drew attention to this problem of equality before the law. At that time, we strongly stressed that this is not an ideological debate, but a question of equality before the law. If it is to be exempted in one area, it must also be given in other areas. These exceptions already exist and this cannot be an argument for the non-admission of this law. As far as subsidies for young families and mortgage loans are concerned, it is absurd. I think that you and the young families are with those subsidies that they receive on a once-in-a-lifetime basis to solve the housing issue, but they really can't even replace the windows on the apartment, not just to seriously start paying off the loan or anything like that. But when we talk about mortgage loans, you know, they're available for everyone. Of course, they give banks and the relevant financial institutions credit if you secure it with a mortgage, but in no way relieve the budget of the young family. And once again, the essence of this law is that tax credit is already burdening the budget of those who are solving the housing issue at monthly level. I argue that this is particularly important for young families, once again because if two people with relatively solid incomes are both employed, have two or three children, want to solve a housing issue, are in a deprived position, simply because they are not entitled to child support or receive very low, children in kindergartens fall into the highest income class, it is a matter of re-burdening the budget. However, when they try to resolve the housing issue, the state does not adequately recognise these tax evasions. This makes sense of this proposal, which regulates tax credit. As I said, we will support this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The fact is, I agree with the predecessors who spoke about the need to reduce public spending. But I will be happy if, at least in this case, when we talk about relief, we have young people in front of us. We are all talking about the birth problem, and the government has highlighted it as one of its fundamental strategic objectives. And this law falls within this context, it is very much in this institutional context. To claim that this is a departure from the other solutions of the new Income Act, a shift from progressiveity and the like, is completely unrealistic, especially because these exceptions are already in the new law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support this proposal. We are, of course, counting on the support of other Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Ambassador William Rezman. [[He's not here.]] Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u104	It's kind of my turn. Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The law that we are proposing or proposed by the first-signed Mr Petek is, however, a solution that has been mitigating for all those things that are going on in the area of housing policy, and in particular the attitude towards young people who are usually looking for a first solution to the housing problem. Of course, Dr Lahovnik has explained matters precisely enough, but I would still like to point out a few minor matters that bother me, including when responding to this proposal from the groups of Members. Again, we have a similar situation, which we have already encountered in this national assembly, to force and force adoption or to reject the law with some future law prepared by the government. This was the case with the Law on Religious Freedom, and we reject it because the government will make a better one, and we have seen what it has made. Then we have a law on public order and peace, which made it possible to pass yesterday's law on municipal officials. So, first of all, there's a law that's inherent, then there's one that's supposed to be caused. Similarly, the law on RTV referred to the future media law and so on. Mainly, the wrong world. That's one thing that turned up again. The Secretary of State has made a classic excuse about how something can't be done when someone can't make administrative matters bigger and more so on, but he hasn't found a solution to make something happen. Of course, Slovenians do not live out of the daily political, for example, of the need for greater fertility and so on, but we always stick to what our old moms taught us, and they said, "First the barn, then the cow." And such a law, as proposed by the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, would make life and housing easier in many ways. We know that in Slovenia the housing problem is very, very serious. Where the causes are, we should be looking a lot back. Renting apartments are almost gone, everything is actually on the market and the market unrelentingly sets these prices, and in addition to the market, normal swallowing and expected profits. Thus, young people are exposed to various pressures, exposed to the fact that they cannot do anything, stay at home, and then it is clear that they will think very carefully about when they will have children and how many children they will have. I think that, given the law that is still in force today, this amendment to the Income Act could be adopted, given the fact that we know that what is announced by the government has been delayed many times. And given that we know that there are very unclear issues concerning the government proposal, it would be good even to see another matter move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you, Comrade Gulic. In your explanation, the four Members before you who were on the schedule have run out of time, so we quickly came to you. On the basis of the list of applicants, Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. The Income Act, which was proposed by colleagues from the Liberal Democracy, I don't know if it's bad luck that it's his turn right now, or, I have a feeling, it's more about advertising. Look, we all know that there is a complex of tax laws in the procedure, and those present now find that they do not solve the housing problem of young people as well. I think that what we all agree on is why I just don't see why this proposal is being considered at all because it won't solve this problem. The problem is more complex, the problem needs to be solved, not just by tax laws, it is necessary to solve it with complex, open, broad, but we all know that it is a big problem and I expect that we will find so much energy and solve this problem. It's not just the land here, it's not just the building, it's not just the building, it's here, if we're going to get to it, it's also going to take a look at kindergartens, and look at jobs, and so on. And this whole complexity, I think it will give us one day in the future, I hope that as soon as possible one such complex solution that we can rightly stand for. This proposal, however, is very narrow, too narrow to be taken seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. He's not here. Trophynic. A government representative has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I would just like to reject or further back up the Government's opinion on this law. Here I would rely on the public financial aspect of this law. Taking into account the current law and data for 2005, under the current law, according to Article 141 of the Income Act, a 4% reduction in the annual tax base for the amounts paid to solve the housing problem was imposed by 103,394 taxpayers in total. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] One billion tolars. [[...]] According to the legal provisions and according to the level of the tax base, income was taken into account as a reduction in the tax base of 14.1 billion. Taking into account the average rate of income of 24%, it was realised from this heading for 2005 by 3.4 billion tolars less income. In fact, this means, for 2005, 3.4 billion less income. Taking into account certain assumptions in 2005 concerning the fact that the drafters of the law in the proposal state that the financial effects of the proposed solutions to the state budget are negligible, we are in fact warning the following. If the tax relief in the form of credit were used by all taxpayers as in 2005, and this was used as a special tax relief for residential purposes, public income on income would be reduced by up to 15.5 billion, meaning a difference of 12 billion tolars. In other words, public income income from income would be lower than 12 billion tolars and this would mean an additional public financial outflow from the source of income and probably should also be replaced for other reasons. This, honourable Members, is an additional argument that the government has defined itself to this law by proposing to the National Assembly that it does not support the draft law as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see any interest. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 3.35 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:35 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on public-private partnership. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on public-private partnership, first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 40 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on public procurement. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a public procurement law, the first hearing, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 48 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 32. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 2 of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. On Tuesday 26 September 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that, due to the lack of consistency of the law adopted by the amendments, the law and the Government would not be in conformity with the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 12 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda - the third item on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act. On Tuesday 26 September 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that, due to the lack of consistency of the law adopted by the amendments, the law and the Government would not be in conformity with the law. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Excuse me! Desire to explain your voice. First of all, I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs. Dobrajc, please, on behalf of the delegation. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Grimes. [[He's quitting.]] I note that there is no interest in explanations of vote, so we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. Excuse me, on behalf of the Members. We are moving on to the application of all those who want to explain their voice in their personal name. Mr. Zagorac. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Anderlich, please, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u111	Always in his own name, there is no shame that I should interpret what others think or even more what they order. I will vote in favour of the law, but I deeply regret the fact that the government did not feel it necessary for most of the people of Slovenia to have this law relating to, say, to deal with issues based on the need to take care of the protection against fires, and to see the government on Tuesday with ignorance, with some kind of surprise, how it is necessary to participate in this agenda and to defend what it wants to regulate and, by the way, also entails obligations for citizens. I myself have followed this law in detail, and this marriage has also been poorly prepared. The government has drawn up a law to which the legislature has had a lot of comments, from 36 articles to 14, and it has had to correct them. Of course, there was no amendment, because by content we all agreed to the law, because it regulates, as I said, the thing that needs to be settled. But this ease of government and ignorance towards the National Assembly, to send something and to be adopted just like that, is unbearable, and I really resent that this is how the National Assembly deals with things. As I said, I will support the law and believe that the Ministry of Defence's attitude towards the National Assembly will be different in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-28-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you. There's no more interest in explanation. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item on the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for an administrative dispute law. On Tuesday 26 September 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the government have not warned me that, as a result of the parental working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest. On Tuesday 26 September 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that, as a result of the labour force adopted by the amendments, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 6th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the wine law. On Tuesday 26 September 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the government have not warned me that, as a result of the parental working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
