ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning, fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Roberto Battelli, Only Bevk, Mag. Milan M. Cwickle, Geza Juban, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Ferry Horvat, mag. Janez Kramberger, Jožef Školč, Aurelio Juri from 12 noon onwards, Franz Kangler, Bojan Kontič, Drago Koren, Breda Pecan, Rudolf Petan, Milan Petek, Jakob Presječnik from 13.30 pm forward, Vili Rezman, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Majda Širca and Davorin Terčon. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Resolution on the National Chemical Safety Programme with Action Plans for Priority Areas in the period 2006-2010. A total time of one hour and twenty minutes is foreseen for the debate. The motion for a resolution was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Here you go, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Let me quickly say, a motion for a resolution on a national chemical safety programme with action plans for priority areas in the period 2006-2010. The National Chemical Safety Programme is a strategic document addressing the national chemical safety policy in Slovenia from 2006-2010. The legal basis for the preparation of the national programme is 56a. Article of the Chemical Act, which provides for the adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of a national chemical safety programme for the effective and coordinated implementation of the national chemical safety policy by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The national programme ahead of you is based on a preliminary comprehensive inter-ministerial assessment of the situation, on which all the major stakeholders, both on the government side and on the NGO side, selected those priority areas at the national workshop, which they also included in the programme. In addition to the general objectives and measures for the development of chemical safety in Slovenia, the programme also sets out the vision, measures and activities to be carried out jointly in priority areas to better protect human health and the environment against negative chemical learners. These are: comprehensive inter-ministerial legislation on chemical safety, comprehensive chemical inspection, chemical safety and health, chemical waste, chemical accident, comprehensive monitoring of chemical pollution. At the same time, the adoption and implementation of the national programme will also contribute to the implementation of the international strategy for the management of chemicals adopted in Dubai in February and also commits Slovenia. The programme is prepared with the help of Phare projects funded by the European Commission, since such programmes in the world have not yet been included in the preparation of the programme in an international pilot project with the United Nations Institute for Education and Research and the Inter-Organisation Programme for the Safe Management of Chemicals. In addition to the preparation of foreign experts, a number of representatives of competent government and interested NGOs participated in the preparation, which, according to the situation in Slovenia and the practice in other comparable European Union countries, considered the possibilities and collected appropriate measures that would make sense in Slovenia. The national chemical safety programme covers horizontal areas where the authorities share responsibility and therefore one of its important parallel objectives is to harmonise their operation and improve cooperation. This presents the national programme as a common commitment to follow the common vision. Thank you, for these introductory minutes, I hope that the national programme will also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you, you. The motion for a resolution has been considered by the Health Committee as a working mother, and I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Franz Jazbec, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Respectable. At its 18th regular meeting on 14.9.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health addressed a motion for a resolution on the national programme for chemical safety in the period 2006-2010 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and reception. In addition to the text of the draft resolution on the national programme for chemical safety for the period 2006-2010, published in Rapporteur No 61/2006, the members of the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 28.8.2006 and the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for Social Activities of 11.9.2006. Mr Andrej Bručan, Minister for Health, presented the introductory explanation to the motion for a resolution on behalf of the applicant. He stressed that the programme objectives of the resolution are to ensure chemical safety, improve public health and the quality of the environment. Ensure conditions for the implementation and control of measures and activities to improve chemical safety and to strengthen the role of Slovenia in ensuring chemical safety at international level. The following members of the Committee have moved to a decision on individual chapters of the motion for a resolution. Within the time limit laid down in Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft resolution were tabled by the SDS, NSI and DeSUS. The members of the Committee supported the amendments to Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3, Chapter 1 of the Annex and Chapter 2 of the Annex by the SDS, NSI and DeSUS. There was no debate on the motion for a resolution. On the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure, in view of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, a supplementary motion for a resolution on the national chemical safety programme with action plans for priority areas in the period 2006-2010 is prepared. The members of the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider and adopt a supplementary motion for a resolution on the National Chemical Safety Programme with action plans for priority areas in the period 2006-2010." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the motion for a resolution. Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position on behalf of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members. In the case of New Slovenia, we support the objectives of the resolution, which seeks to ensure chemical safety and consequently improve the health of the population and the quality of the environment; of course, we also provide conditions for implementation, but also, in particular, effective control of measures and activities to improve chemical safety and strengthen Slovenia's role in ensuring chemical safety at international level. The resolution thus contains a general action programme by 2010, which we believe is appropriate in New Slovenia. The measures envisaged are primarily intended to protect human health and the environment and are expected to gradually reduce the risk of chemicals being introduced by NSIs over the programming period. Of course, this trend needs to continue beyond the end of this programming period and thus continue to contribute to the implementation of an international strategy for the management of chemicals, which our country has also signed and whose objective is primarily to achieve, on a global scale, the safe use of chemicals by 2020 and not to represent significant negative effects on human health and our environment. However, as has already been pointed out, the cross-cutting cooperation of all competent authorities is crucial. Even if some estimates suggest that individual prices of products could be encouraged, New Slovenia estimates that this is far less important than the positive aspect of replacing more dangerous chemicals with less dangerous, this positive effect would be both to protect health and to protect the environment. Thus, we will also support the New Slovenia Group's action plan and programme, the resolution without reservation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you. Ambassador Mikhael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the adoption of a national programme for chemical safety and in particular its purpose, namely to improve the health of the population and the quality of the environment in which we live, and to preserve it for our descendants. It therefore seems very important to us that the conditions for the implementation and control of measures should be specified. While the motion for a resolution is very transparent, it may be a little unusual that the reasons and implementation, purpose and objectives are explained only in the annex and not in the resolution itself. We support the general objectives of the national programme: to improve public health and the quality of the environment, to ensure conditions and improve chemical safety and to strengthen Slovenia's role in ensuring this at international level. We welcome the choice and choice of priorities addressed by the national programme, as this ensures a sufficiently broad approach to the most sensitive and important topics for all people, such as: safe nutrition without harmful chemicals, safety at work with chemicals and the protection of the environment in which we live. To the greatest extent possible, it is necessary to use European funds and other international and domestic financial resources such as bilateral or multilateral aid projects and similar to the introduction of safer alternatives to hazardous chemicals, cleaner and safer technologies, and to purchase chemical safety equipment. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that in Slovenia, with timely measures, we need to preserve an environment that has remained more preserved compared to some countries and to prevent imports from endangering the health of our people by means of cheap, but poor, quality food and technology. It is therefore necessary: First, to harmonise inter-resort legislation in a timely manner, further, to sensitize residents and producers and to set limits and conditions for the management of hazardous chemicals, to ensure adequate control and punishment of offenders, to require consistent indication of inappropriate and dangerous food ingredients, such as various emulsifiers in children's food and so on. The production and sale of foodstuffs containing dangerous substances should be carefully regulated and monitored. It is necessary to inform the public about the use and handling of hazardous chemicals. It is also necessary to train inspection services to monitor and sanction the inappropriate use of hazardous chemicals in a timely and professional manner. It seems reasonable and even necessary to examine and, if necessary, improve the horizontal coherence or integrity of the rules created during the period of successful adaptation of Slovenian legislation to the acquis of the European Union. It is also necessary to harmonise the functioning of analytical laboratories which, according to official estimates of the European Commission in Slovenia, are too high. Their work is doubling, the apparatus is not being used rationally, so the laboratories need to draw up a restructuring plan and decide on a range of analyses that they believe will be sufficient to adapt their human and technical capacities, to ensure quality assurance and to obtain accreditation. The National Chemical Safety Programme therefore sets out priority areas for chemical safety, although the definition of this concept is not yet unified and fully developed internationally. We are aware that the chemical industry is one of the pillars of the global economy, as it represents 9% of the world's annual trade and 7% of the world's income. We therefore find it very ambitious to include the right to chemical safety as a fundamental human right in the General Action Programme by 2010. Of course, it is quite clear that for Members of the Slovenian People's Party, health and a healthy environment means everyone's fundamental right, but we do not think we need to explain such a measure in order to make it just a letter on paper. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the national programme is necessary to adopt and implement it, so of course we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you, you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. My friend Franz Badger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Respectable. The motion for a resolution on the national chemical safety programme is a strategic document that addresses the national chemical safety policy for the period 2006-2010 and will be supported by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This year we have already discussed and adopted a law on biocidal products that relates to the field of chemical safety. The resolution before us is a proposal for a national programme based on a preliminary comprehensive inter-ministerial assessment of the situation on which all the most important stakeholders are governmental and non-governmental, and has chosen 6 national priority areas at the national workshop. These are: comprehensive interdepartmental chemical safety legislation, comprehensive chemical inspection, chemical safety and health, chemical waste, chemical accident, comprehensive monitoring. The National Chemical Safety Programme itself sets out visions and objectives and lays down for priority areas the measures and activities to be carried out to better protect human health and the environment from the negative effects of chemicals at different stages of their life cycle. In addition to the preparation of the programme, a number of representatives of competent government and interested NGOs participated in the preparation of the programme, which, depending on the situation in Slovenia and the practice in other comparable European Union countries, considered and selected appropriate measures that would make sense in Slovenia. The national chemical safety programme covers horizontal areas where the competent authorities are divided and therefore one of its important parallel objectives is to harmonise their operation and improve cooperation. The Phare, Chemical Safety 1 and Phare projects, the further development of chemical safety financed by the European Union Commission, were the basis for the preparation of the programme. Since such programmes have not yet been developed in the world, their preparation has been included in an international pilot project with the United Nations Institute for Education and Research during the Organisation Programme for the Safe Management of Chemicals. The adoption of the national programme is also essential due to its effects on the following segments. The economy. It is assistance to legal and natural persons who manufacture and use chemicals or otherwise treat them professionally. The environment. It is a matter of protecting human health and the environment and it is therefore expected that the proposed measures will gradually reduce the risk of chemicals during the programming period. The aim of the resolution is to achieve a global criterion by 2020 to ensure that chemicals are used safely and do not represent significant negative effects on human health and the environment. Social position of individuals. For example, replacing certain hazardous chemicals with less dangerous ones and introducing safer and cleaner technologies will have a preliminary effect on the price of products. As has already been said, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the motion for a resolution. I give my word to Dr. Paul Gantar. He's not here. Member Franz Jazbec has the floor. You're giving up. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. He's not here. The word is by Mojca Kucler Dolinar. She's not here. And I give my word to the government representative. Give it up. In view of the fact that all the debaters who wanted the word also received it, and the time we still have left, I ask whether there is anyone else who wants to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to open the checkup. Here we go. There is no desire to discuss, so I am concluding the debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, the Assembly will hold its decision on the resolution in accordance with the meeting's time frame today within a half-hour period following the end of the 18th item of the agenda or no later than 17 and 5 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I would like to thank the representatives of the government for their participation. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL FACILITIES FOR 2006 AND 2007. I am pleased to inform you that a total time of four and ten minutes is set for this debate. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal to supplement the State's sales programme. This amendment must be decided by the national assembly in accordance with this law. According to the available data, the capital investment that the Republic of Slovenia holds in NKBM was already included in the sales programme for 2001. To this end, the government adopted a sales programme on 31 May 2001 and appointed a commission in July 2001 to oversee and implement the sale process. In view of the inadequate tenders, the Government, by decision of 25.4.2002, stopped and commissioned the Ministry of Finance and the Supervisory Board and the Bank's Administration to prepare a new sales programme for the implementation of the Bank's development strategy, with a focus on ensuring the achievement of strategic objectives by recapitalising and partially privatising the state share. In addition to privatisation, the programme is intended to contain all possible forms of recapitalisation of the bank, in the form of investments or mergers of companies owned by the State. NKBM d.d. has been classified for 2003 and 2004 and for the 2004 and 2005 sales programme, but the sale process has not been initiated as the new sales programme has not been adopted or has not been appointed by the Commission. In 2003, the Ministry of Finance appointed a working group to manage and supervise the merger process of NKBM d.d. and Post Banks of Slovenia and Reinsurance of Sava and Insurance of Maribor d.d. By decision of 15.7.2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia invested shares of the Postal Bank of Slovenia in the NKBM and for this purpose received 119 thousand 748 SIT. The sales programme for State and real property for 2006 and 2007 was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at a meeting of 30.9.2005 and on the same day as the annex to the 2006 and 2007 budget forwarded to the National Assembly. Since a further sales strategy had not yet been known, the Ministry of Finance could not be included in the sales programme. The government later adopted a decision on the establishment and composition of advisory and privatisation groups and appointed an advisory group for the New Bank of Maribor. As I mentioned before, the Public Finance Act is at 80. the article allows the public property sales programme to be supplemented or amended during the implementation of the budget, and the Ministry of Finance has decided to complement the programme once the privatisation model is known. On 11.5.2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for strategic guidelines for the privatisation of NKBM, and the Ministry of Finance prepared a proposal for amendments to the 2006 and 2007 Sales Programme, which was adopted by the Government on 6 July this year and forwarded to the National Assembly for admission. As you are probably aware, the government has included the privatisation of this institution in this framework of economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia. Within the framework of the measures for the development of the financial system, a coordinated privatisation of the largest state-owned companies is envisaged. The purpose of the privatisation of this bank is to maximise the selling price and to establish a ownership structure that will ensure effective management, competitiveness and successful development of the bank in a transparent manner in the long term. When preparing the underlying sale, as I mentioned earlier, the sale strategy of the New Credit Bank could not yet be known, so the bank was not included in this programme at the time, but it is important that the sale process of the bank starts in 2006. The sale itself is foreseen in 2007 when the first phase is expected to be completed. In addition to the bank, other capital investments are added to the programme. These are investments that are currently acquired by the State under the law on the succession of heirs without heirs or when the legacy is burdened and the heirs to such an inheritance are resigned. In such cases it is necessary to pay the creditors and therefore it is necessary to approach the sale of the legacy as soon as possible. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that, in accordance with Article 80 of the Public Finance Act, this proposal to supplement the programme should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u13	The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. At its 20th meeting, on 14 September, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal to amend and supplement the decision on the sale of state and real property for 2006 and 2007. The proposal was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There was also a legislative and legal service, as usual. It has made some comments, some have been taken into account since the preparation of the material, and its comments on Articles 4 and 5 have then been prepared or amendments have been drafted, which were later adopted. There has been a lot of discussion on the subject, above all, of the valuation of this real property, but in all cases, even in cases where the price was zero, there has been an answer that this is ready to be replaced. In short, it was found at the meeting itself that these prices or estimates of such or different are not essential, since the procedure ensures that the method of sale itself ensures that every country always endures the optimal amount or as much as the buyers are willing to pay for the matter. We also discussed the sale of the Maribor Credit Bank, which is also listed, and adopted an additional conclusion that the programme is also being forwarded to the Committee or the National Assembly. In some ways, the discussion and the Government's explanation of the fact that this is practically only a list of what the State wants to sell or if this list is confirmed can then be initiated for a particular part of this list. But there is nothing else, so we have found that we can debate many and endlessly the values themselves, the values assessed and the values such as these. It is a fact that government representatives have said that they want to sell this property in real or financial terms this year, and it is therefore appropriate to confirm this proposal and this list. We considered that what the state wants to sell and does not need to be realized is now necessary to fill in the budget lines as soon as possible. We have adopted a decision, we have included the amendments adopted in the draft law and we propose that the proposal be adopted in the national assembly. We have proposed, of course, that this point should also be included in the draft agenda of the 20th meeting of the national assembly, because otherwise this amendment of the law would make no sense, as it would not be possible for any resale to take place this year. We do know, however, that it is already in preparation, somewhere already in manufacture, or is already coming up with a proposal for a sales programme for national financial and real property for 2007 and 2008, which we will be considering in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you, you. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present my position on the motion for a decision. Mr Mikhael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. New Credit Bank Maribor is also involved in the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the sale programme of state and real estate. As this is a particularly important issue, in this presentation I will focus in particular on the privatisation of this bank. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which makes a decision on privatisation on behalf of the largest owner, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, is obliged to take account of the following facts. First time. There is no doubt from a model point of view that partial privatisation of the bank makes sense to improve the Bank's competitive capacity. This claim stems from the arguments of the professional public and from the fundamental concepts of economic and social reforms that are forecast for the coming periods. Another time. We are asked about the extent of privatisation and about dynamics. We're sure it doesn't make much sense to be too hasty to sell too much. We are advocates of progressive privatisation, and this is based on the following arguments. The Bank was successfully rehabilitated during the transition period. The owner of the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia covered the financial burden of recovery by means of a budget collected from citizens and the Slovenian economy. As a good host, the largest share will be sold when the competitiveness and efficiency objectives of the banking system are achieved. We estimate that there are still many unfulfilled objectives ahead of the bank in this area. The scope of all products offered by the New Credit Bank Group Maribor will need to be increased and their quality improved. The Bank will have to address the problems it has in the field of information technology as soon as possible. To achieve these objectives it will take a lot of effort and energy, but significantly less than at the time of recovery and until now when we are starting privatisation. A good master sells assets in order to achieve as much as possible. Let us sell or invite strategic partners with fresh capital and give up only the share needed to enter new ideas and new organisations and new controls. And only after the strategic objectives have been achieved to increase the share price will we sell a more significant share. Revenue from the sale of state property will be badly needed by the Republic of Slovenia for the successful implementation of reforms and for the payment of debts in the coming years, following the assessment of the Slovenian People's Party. The good master must think in the long term, so we expect thoughtful and gradual steps from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, the Minister of Finance are ahead of a responsible and challenging task. We expect that decisions will take into account, in particular, the professional arguments that the political objectives we have promised our citizens will be achieved; that they will be subtle and accountable to them in their decision-making; and that they will, by selling the silver from our common treasury, at least a little burden by successfully carrying out reforms and reducing tax burdens. To be careful when making decisions, and not like the previous governments, they will be making repeated privatisation mistakes. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the deliberate gradual privatisation carried out in accordance with the rules, the rules of expertise and the experience of good experts. If 50% of the New Maribor Credit Bank is already being sold, this should not be done in any way or in such a way as to sell it to only one buyer. The sale must be made dispersed and by no means to strangers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the decree before us today points to the reckless and rather untransparent work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular, I stress once again the reckless work. Let me go back to a period a few years ago with words. It was 1994 when a two-thirds majority act was adopted in this National Assembly, a constitutional charter, an act that is most important in our country, and an act through which the former bank in Maribor and the former bank in Ljubljana were transformed. At the time of the adoption of this act and the adoption of the closed doors without public presence, the then Governor of the National Bank decided to support the proposal for a decision, which came from the title of one of the Members, that is to say that the privatisation of banks in our country, in particular the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank, will take place on the basis of law. A second decision was also adopted, a second conclusion with very high quality content, and this decision was then proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. The decision that said that citizens and citizens would have to be involved in privatisation. Why? Because then three or four years later, the banking system in our country was being rehabilitated. The rehabilitation, which cost some 100 billion Slovenian tolars, and through the height of this rehabilitation, has actually begun to increase public debt in Slovenia. Where are we today? I have not heard the spirit of the privatisation law, but I do not blame this government alone, I have personally proposed a privatisation law in the previous term. It was neither supported by the previous government nor by any party in the previous government. We have also proposed the same law in this mandate and it has also not been supported by any party. I just want you to know that on purpose, you deliberately violate the Slovenian regulations adopted in this National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should not adopt that decree today and here. You shouldn't have. We are doing irreparable damage, as it was done over a period of years ago, when we were selling to the Belgian KBC New Ljubljana Bank. These mistakes proved to be true today. We can't do the same thing. But because, unfortunately, I've said too many times about this kind of government work, and I believe that all those who wanted to hear it, you know the story, today is just a decision. In my opinion, the National Assembly should not have agreed to such a government strategy. The National Assembly should adopt a law on the privatisation of banks, a law which would provide for substantive steps, procedures and a future owner. We don't miss much. Very little effort is needed for something like this. Then we'd know what we're on and why it's sold. As it is said, we will not support this proposal in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. France Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u20	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In drawing up the position of the DeSUS Group, we are based on the following facts. Even before the signing of the coalition agreement, DeSUS insisted on accelerating regional development, the gradual withdrawal of the country from the economy, the gradual deliberate privatisation, the increase in market competitiveness, the creation of land funds to be created in local communities for the implementation of development projects. In this regard, we also supported the adoption of the relevant legislation. Thus, the law on the promotion of regional development in its Articles 36 and 37 speaks of the transfer of state property to ownership, ownership and management of municipalities with a view to the use of property for development purposes. The fact that this property can be transferred to local communities free of charge and for the purpose of investing in development programmes. The Decree on the State Property Sales Programme is one of the important instruments to achieve this objective, foresees both sales and free transfers. However, some proposals for free transfers were not accepted. Thus, some proposals from the congregation of Ruše were rejected if they were to be taken into account in the following decisions, thus delaying solutions to the problems, increasing the deterioration and damage of the facilities, and unnecessarily hindering the development ambitions of the congregation. Thus, in the case of the Šumnik hut, which was an important tourist destination, it has been closed down for years on account of the fault of the forest institution, it falls due to several failed rental invitations and the offer to take over and return to the municipality of Ruše was rejected for free of charge with the necessary investment and investment. After many protests and letters, only recently a renewal began, and the transfer to management or ownership of the municipality was again refused. Similarly, in the case of a requirement for free transfer of work of abandoned, commercially unnecessary land of the Slovenian Railways and Railway Agency. These sites are intended for the public interest and construction of residential and business buildings in the development plans of the municipality, and this request has also been rejected, although it has been informed by the competent ministries and co-workers there. Some other para-national institutions that are burdened with unnecessary commercial assets or are at least willing to participate in community development projects, such as a consulting and management company, an agricultural land and forest fund, are more rational. Despite these weaknesses, the DeSUS Group will support the decree because, despite these shortcomings, it has followed a coalition agreement, a reform programme and demonstrates the willingness to withdraw the influence of the country from the economy and more cost-effective treatment of state assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you. The rapporteur, Maria Pozsonec, is supposed to present the position of the delegation of the national community or of the national community. Ambassador Bojan Starman will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the bill. We will support it because we believe and believe that the relevant government authorities have made the right decision on the assets, real and financial needed to be sold. We think that this is practically an emergency, a bureaucratic obstacle to even starting a sales process if it's not on the sales list, then it can't be realized. However, I think that, at least four times in a short time, we have considered this proposal, the proposal for a law on the sale of state-owned and real property, that there is an urgent need here for something to match the systemic, how to sell state-owned assets, probably slightly different from the procedures, other than real property, and here we really need a system-wide approach that will regulate it and also how this list or proposal is complemented. This should be in some way coordinated. We see that in certain local communities that would like to acquire certain state assets - some even do not know the procedures, some do not even pursue these procedures, this should be very transparent and clear. If we're talking about selling the New Credit Bank, the board also confirmed that the programme should be prepared. In the case of sales of larger ones, where it would also be necessary to determine what these values are, it would be necessary in fact for each individual to prepare a specific programme and also a strategy on how the State would deal with its assets, because if all its gold and silver were sold in a fast process, this would not be good. I think that there is a need to act decisively here and somewhere this should be regulated by some law that would cover this area systematically, so that individual actions can then be directed towards one and the clear objective that we want to achieve in doing so. The fact is that it is unnecessary for any good master to dispose of unnecessary property as quickly as possible, to sell it because we know that property, and especially unnecessary property, is also an unnecessary cost for our budgets and our country. Once again, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this proposal as a list of assets that we want to sell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you, you. Member of Parliament, Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any Members of the National Assembly at this time. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, this decision on the sale of state property cannot be supported. We have already drawn attention to a whole range of weaknesses on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, including the assigned values we have in this Annex. I am not just talking here about the New Maribor Credit Bank, where the value is given by book value, and I have a fingerprint that we are talking today about 33 or 34 billion Slovenian tolars. That's not true. The book value is indeed slightly more than 33 billion Slovenian tolars, but it is likely that the actual market value will be up to three times higher there and we will finally talk about 100 billion Slovenian tolars. So first, let's make it clear that we are not talking about these 33 billion today, but the likely takeover is up to three times higher, 100 billion Slovenian tolars. This is the first conclusion, because it is quite clear that the current practice also shows, the experience from NLB and the sale of other banks, that the actual market value reaches up to three times the book value, in the case of NLB, this was 2.7 times the new Ljubljana Bank. The other thing I would like to point out in this regard is that it would be right - I am aware that there is a chance for the government to approach it in this way, to present accounting values and some assigned values. However, I do not think it is responsible that this national assembly does not at least receive in the annex some other valuations that are significantly closer to market values. I mentioned New Credit Bank Maribor, where we now have no real sense of what real value it is. And secondly, the other values we have in the annexes. See only on page 12, the building plot at Dob pri Domžalů is rated as 4.2 million tolars, in Tacno building land 5.9 million tolars and also on the committee we warned Members of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that this is not serious. I don't know who determined such values, who can say that there is a wally building site in Tacn near Ljubljana, which is worth 30 to 40 million tolars on the market, but here in this annex is a value that is five or six times lower. What are we going to do? Who can record such values inside, who is that government official who can write them down? I'm really curious! Any citizen or citizen who purchases a real estate advert can better estimate the value of that property. The argument, if, is that there will be a reassessment, and there will be auctions, to some extent it can be held. However, I fear what a later appreciation will be if these valuations or valuations are so poorly prepared. We believe that this is not good, that this shows some unrestrained attitude and that it would be right, however, that we are aware that there are significantly higher values in practice than those set out in these Annexes. So much for these treasures is the technical details that I explain why we cannot support this decision. As regards that essential point we are talking about the New Maribor Credit Bank, we would like to draw your attention, honourable Members and Members, to the fact that we have never discussed in this National Assembly the model of privatisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank, ever. Today we have a decree on the sale of property, in fact this decree also contains a model of privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor, and we have not said a word in this National Assembly about these matters either on the Economic Committee or on the Monetary Policy and Finance Committee. We've got to know what the plan is. We're just being informed - and that's it! And today we can confirm or not confirm this model, indirectly. I wonder whether this is really the right way, or whether it would not be right, for the minimum correctness of the National Assembly to come to the Committee on the Economy or to the Committee on Monetary Policy and Finance and explain the reasons for the model used. In this case, it would be easier to make decisions today, but this debate was not easy and is trying to put it under the rug. Even some eminent financial experts point to the weaknesses of the model used. Dr. France Arhar, the so-called independent candidate of so-called spring parties, warns that the proposed model is not good. It points to weaknesses, even more so, it points to the story of the New Ljubljana Bank, where the withdrawal of KBC now poses a dilemma for all potential investors. To what extent is the Slovenian State credible when talking about some privatisation plans of financial institutions? These are the words, as I said, of the former Governor of Banka Slovenije, which were summarized in one of the business logs before he announced what he announced in Ljubljana. In short, in the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to draw your attention to some of the traps of this approach that we are taking today. Today, we will be simple, perhaps the representatives of the coalition will confirm the decision on the sale of state property, without discussing the privatisation model in advance or without being properly familiar with the privatisation model at least. We have to dig in the government property sale decree to find out what the real model of privatisation is. What is the approach of the Slovenian government in this way?? What is the attitude toward the National Assembly, to working bodies?Oh, my God! This is also what we are asking in the Liberal Democracy Group. Finally, I would also like to stress the crucial fact that we cannot support this way of indirectly privatising the New Bank of Maribor through this decree on the sale of state property. Simply because there is no talk of the best possible privatisation model with recapitalisation. In this way, the bank would acquire fresh capital, thus transforming Nova Kredittna Banka Maribor into an important regional player. Last year she had a 10% market share in Slovenia and this market share is losing. It also receives foreign banks that are here to talk about, and its competitive capacity can be improved mainly or, if you want, only through the recapitalisation of the bank. Fresh capital is urgently needed for its expansion and it must be aware that the group of the New Bank of Maribor also includes the Maribor Insurance Company and that it is one of the most important Slovenian financial groups. There's no talking about any recapitalisation! Of course it can't be because it's a decree on the sale of state property! But even in the model envisaged, as we can see from these materials, this is not foreseen. And this is very bad, which is contrary to the approaches that have recently been applied in relation to privatisation in the field of financial institutions. The most appropriate way is through recapitalisation, as this also increases the competitive capacity of the bank. And why don't some potential investor, domestic or foreign, get some of his equity share by recapitalisation in which everyone, including the state, would become more valuable in this way. These are some of the important questions that we wanted to point out, to which we have not received an answer and, of course, we cannot support this decision on the sale of state property in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word! Dear Minister, co-workers! In order not to feel that in this decree there is only New Bank of Maribor, there is still a whole range of other, especially real estate items that are just as important as the New Bank of Maribor. Therefore, I must first express my dissatisfaction, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, with the approach and way in which the decision is drawn up, or the addition of the sale of state property. This is not the first time we have done this, but the third time in this last year. Above all, it is unrealistic and unacceptable for us to change the decree again in the last quarter of the year and recommit ourselves to resold some things by the end of this year - the same story as at the end of last year! Indeed, the procedures are not as short of a time as they appear at first sight, if they are, of course, as government officials assure us. Many things have also been said in the debates in the past, proposals made and very much promises made by the proposer that things will improve. None of this happened, we've got the same paper we've had so far. Therefore, as a starting point and guidance to the proposer regarding the decision on the sale of real and financial property, we will take advantage of the correction that was published in one of Slovenia's newspapers yesterday. In fact, the journalist publicly apologized to one of the Slovenian government ministers, who also received a pension last year worth 25 million and not 25.6 million, as the journalist mistakenly stated in her contribution. And in a similar manner, in a similar and corrective manner, the proposer of this amendment to the decree should prepare this amendment by means of a specific annex, by reviewing and implementing the already sold state property from the decision we last adopted. So that today we have on the table the actual number of assets that have already been sold, because the numbers in the decree that we Members take are not real, are only after most of the books you claim us to have. Let me remind you what the Secretary of State has said in my comment that Members agree at a ridiculously low price at the last similar debate. I quote: "Then this estimated value in the decree is only an approximation. This is not the value that you Members would agree to sell the property, but it will be found at a public auction." Thus, a person would rightly expect that we also have a report on the results of these pessimistic illustrations at the time of this amendment to the decree. Specific figures on prices achieved at public auctions. It was also because of these and other comments that the proposaler said that the legislation would change, that the legal basis would change when Members take decisions with specific figures that are not correct. Also in this decree we are talking about a lot of high amounts of assets and the figures in the decree are really misleading, especially when selling those equity shares that are not currently checked on the market. In a specific case, as has already been exposed several times today, the sale of the shares of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, as well as on the other hand, is a whole list of properties, where in individual cases the values are ridiculous. It would be useful for Members, together with this new decree, to have a view to the realisation and concrete financial recovery of the sale of assets from the previous decree. Since this is not the case, a number of doubts and suspicions are being raised as to whether the sale actually takes place under this particular procedure, as we verbally do, are being verbally persuaded by government representatives. More knowledgeable things can say that in the sale of state property, which is related to real estate items, it is also involved by the so-called - we often speak in the National Assembly - clienteleism. In short, the correction in this case would be a back-up report. However, an even better correction would, of course, have been if the applicant, when stating the book value already on this proposal that we have today, had written an approximation of the estimated market price, but this is obviously too difficult to do. Therefore, the argument repeated by the applicant from the ruling to the decision that only the book value on a given day can always be indicated and that the more precise value may be, perhaps - you do not know, only when the evaluation is made when the Commission to draw up the divestment programme approved by the Government and then the sale itself is unsatisfactory. Therefore, in the Social Democrats' Group, we propose to spread this fog, that each time the government adopts or complements the decision, it prepares an accurate report and a review of the realisation of the resale in return, or that the government informs the National Assembly or the Finance Committee half a year about the flow and withdrawal of the sale of state property. For the sale of major financial tasks, such as the divestment of a majority share in the New Credit Bank of Maribor in this decree, it would be prudent, fair and correct for the divestment programme to be assessed by the National Assembly, since, finally, we are the Members or the National Assembly, who will give the Bianca menu for the legal basis of the sale of this share by adopting this decision. Finally, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are once again stressing the need for legislative changes. The applicant also still does not wish to take into account clearly stated provisions in the Public Finance Act, which provide that the purchase, rental and compensation of state or municipal real property is to be used solely for the construction, purchase and maintenance of state real property. Therefore, there is no further explanation for the use of these assets, which will be obtained from the sale of state property. This is particularly important since the present act and procedure are being carried out outside the procedures for adopting the State budget. Of course, it would be best if we could win the practice of adopting similar decisions in the course of the budgetary debate. In short, on the basis of these comments and comments that we have already made in the Group of Social Democrats in the past, and none of these have been taken into account and implemented, we will not support this decision, either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ambassadors, Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers! We are in New Slovenia and we will stand for the withdrawal of the country from the economy, if this means greater efficiency of businesses, better quality of services, lower prices for consumers or users of services, and if this means the competitiveness of the economy. Studies show that state-owned companies are less efficient and thus prevent higher economic growth. Privatisation of New Credit Bank Maribor d.d. as part of the privatisation measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia. By amending the Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme of the State Treasury for 2006 and 2007 it follows the objectives it has set. In New Slovenia we support long-term privatisation goals that will ensure effective management, competitiveness and successful development of the New Maribor Credit Bank. At the end of last year, the government appointed an advisory group for the New Credit Bank Maribor, which prepared a proposal for strategic guidance on privatisation, which is reflected in the gradual sale of the country's share. In the first phase it is about selling 50% of the equity share minus 1 share, while in the second phase the remaining share is sold by maintaining the state 25% interest increased by one share, which also allows it to influence the key strategic decisions of the New Credit Bank Maribor. In the proposal for a decree, the government also included real property, for which the public administrations assess it to be unnecessary and rational to sell it, and the financial assets generated during the year because the Republic of Slovenia acquires, under the law on inheritance after the persons whose heirs have resigned due to the burden of inheritance. This property is worth selling as soon as possible and paying off the creditors with a ransom. Therefore, in addition to the sale of the New Credit Bank Maribor, the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the sale programme of state-owned assets for 2006 and 2007 also includes real assets that are not necessary for business and financial assets from which it wants to start in 2006. Since it is beneficial for the State and its nationals to supplement the decision with the above amendments and to resell the unnecessary assets as soon as possible, Nova Slovenija supports the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme for State and Real Estate for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one will have the word of Ambassador Willy Rezman. He's not here. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. That's really going fast. When we are discussing at some general level, we are listening to criticism that the state is getting too involved in the economy, in public administration, in the judiciary and so on, in the media, that politics has too much influence on this sphere and thus this ruling coalition. The country is a bad host, hindering development and so on. However, when we come up with some concrete cases when we start talking about concrete companies, shares and so on, then this logic in some of the cancellations, then everyone would defend, I don't know, the country's shares in these organisations and everything that this government is preparing is wrong. I'm very disturbed by those double standards myself. However, as far as this programme is concerned, we are already at the hearing on the Committee on Finance, even today it has been shown that most of the words have already been addressed to the New Bank of Credit Maribor. There's also a lot of emotional charge around here. It is true that the bank has also been created by means of the economy and the local environment, so we from Maribor or nearby take it as our own, based on our own, by name, by some tradition, by the way it was created. If we are thinking rationally, of course, it is necessary to point out that the bank was in very poor condition in the 1990s, in the first half, and that it was later successfully rehabilitated, of course by state resources, with state investments, or this also means by taxpayers. To this end, a pretty number of billions of Slovenian tolars was invested in the bank. Despite the government's or financial ministry's assurance that in the event of the privatisation of the New Bank of Credit, Maribor will be a gradual, deliberate privatisation that will make the bank even more competitive, stronger, yet there is some fear that Maribor will lose another important institution. Let us just remember the electricity industry, when those who made the decision at the time simply transferred this seat to us from Maribor and today it is in Ljubljana. Moreover, there is also evidence that something similar is about to happen with the Drava Power Plants and so on, but as a Member from that area of approaches I simply cannot support and have great concerns about this. However, I would like to say something else about the book value or value that we accept in this document today, also referred to as some starting value. I don't see any other options than to say book value here, because it's not a sales programme, but actually some list of those shares that are supposed to be sold, and the only real basis is until some professional valuation of the actual market value is done to operate with book value. The second question, of course, is why the bookkeeping value is so low. When we took over government property as well, we just got some kind of leaky state, and such a leaky state is also a bookkeeping value. Of course, there are two possibilities that those who have previously taken care of this property have failed to ensure that in their financial statements they have the right value, or that others, in these two years since we have taken care of the state property, this property has increased so much that we have managed so well that the market value of this bank is actually 100 billion and not 32, as in the accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you. As regards the sale of state property, we can always talk about the fact that this is some kind of hole closure mechanism, even in the budget, when you try to provide certain resources with sale, and as we have already warned on behalf of the parliamentary group, there is very little information as to what happens at the end of this sale. Only the sale of state property should surely be monitored in a more efficient way and also in a more transparent way between [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] all the procedures and actually assessing whether it is true that the budget is somehow easier to close, monitor a sale and then perform it or not, and then adjust to some of the current situations, situations that arise during the summer. [[...]] Of course, the issue is somewhat more questionable in those sales, such as the New Credit Bank Maribor, when, as we have heard, one region can also see that an area can be left without a significant impact on the development of this area, since the interests of owners can be completely different, as was the purpose of the establishment of a society itself in that environment. Also on this side, the sale of state property is extremely important for the so-called regional development, not only for the fact that someone is buying, comes into an environment, but in fact there is no such information as to how and in what way such sales have been most reflected in this regional environment. However, these are very large, including price differences in individual regions. It doesn't matter whether you have property in Maribor, Ljubljana, Koper, or you have it somewhere near the border. And this is also one of the indicators that, in fact, in the government, we should consider that certain programmes that can be implemented in public-owned or state-owned buildings in areas where these facilities are of lower market value would then, by selling the facilities that are, say, again in Ljubljana, Maribor or Koper, the state would survive significantly more with this property, the very activity and the task that is being carried out in this property, but, of course, at the same quality level, it could also take place in these areas, because this property is not so valuable. I think that these decisions and all these procedures should actually be upgraded by this impact on regional development, and I think that we would then get a more efficient way and a programme of sales of state property that would be more acceptable to everyone. However, it is extremely difficult to say that this is the programme you want to support, because there is not, in fact, any impact on the implications of the budget or on the more equitable regional development itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you. Member Villa Trofenik has the floor. He's not here. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have looked at this updated proposal for a decision on the adoption and additions to the programme on the sale of state-owned and real property. I must say that the very normative part of this decree is, as usual, brief and constitutional. Actually, I don't have a problem with that, but I have a problem with attachment. In fact, in some cases, information is extremely stale and we do not really know what the country is selling or what we do know, but we do not know under what conditions, how it sells or what is actually going on. I am particularly thinking about this on page 12, and in part also on page 13, under the heading of the Ministry of Environment and Space, even the type of sale of building plots, as a rule of the building plots produced from the abandoned water land. Because we know that such matters can involve a number of speculations and exploitation by both public and private private actors. I'd need a little more explanation for these items. When and why there was an abandonment of water land, how there was a change to building land and, in fact, under what conditions, and how these buildings are then sold, whether the "buyers" are known in advance or not, they would need something more. For example, with the Minister of Transport, you also have sales of certain land along roads where, according to the principle of "copy/passe", one explanation is then stated for everyone else, but there are also possible irregularities, but I would expect those who have proposed to do so, especially with the Minister of Environment and Space, to be able to explain a little more what this is all about. If the minister knows, I'll be grateful to him, but I don't expect him to be able to say it or anyone else who's here. If there is no explanation, then of course I will not be able to vote for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you. There's a MEP with a word. Borut Saiovic. Member Milan Friday has the floor. He's not here. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you, Chairman. Nicely greeted. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I'll support the motion for a ruling myself. However, since the main discussions on the privatisation or sale of the New Credit Bank Maribor were on the parent body, I would also add that I support the privatisation objective mainly with a view to establishing an ownership structure that will in the long term ensure effective governance, competitiveness and successful development. We have talked a lot about this, of course, we have talked a lot about another goal, which has been introduced, the maximum selling price. It is perfectly logical to me that this must be achieved, and I have full confidence in the government that it will also achieve this. We know that it is true that, decades ago, banks have been rehabilitated, where, as we have heard before, a lot of taxpayer money has been invested, if we are talking about some hundred billion, and we could certainly spend that money on other projects. See, I also imagine as a good local community economy, so the country will certainly spend these funds deliberately, because this is an area for purposeful use of funds, and these are, in fact, some obligations that, perhaps today, are still the result of these issues from the past; and somehow I think they will be deliberately used to pay credits or reduce deficits. And if that is also the case, then this decision is right at the moment, and above all from the point of view of the withdrawal of the country from the economy, to carry out this project. As far as the sale of the remaining assets is concerned, I would like to draw attention to what has also been said on the Committee on estimated values and actual values. We all know a regulation that prescribes how old the valuation can be, and the valuation is carried out on the basis of a judicially sworn appreciater who carries it out, I am sure that these valuations will also be made and that, on the basis of these valuations, all the remaining assets will be sold. So it is true that in those tables there are only estimated values. I'd be happy if, as was said, all that current assets were sold within the planned deadline. As I said in the introduction, I will support the proposed decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u37	Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. He's not here. I give my word to Mr. Dushan Kumr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I've only got two more sentences, and what I did before, I'm gonna do it again. I mean that part of my introductory words when I said that the proposaler or the government had already promised a year ago that it would change legislation in this area, in this way that the attitude towards Members and Members and this National Assembly would be more adjusted, that we would not decide, deal with the divestment of some 100,000 SITs for cars and so on, and not only do we not decide, but we do not have a view, nor are we informed, nor do we get information about the billion-dollar disposal transactions of state assets, which, of course, is done through two para-State funds, that is KAD and SOD. I think it would be right to do something in this direction, however, in the legislation, if we really think, as you say today, by withdrawing the country from the economy. And the other thing that's related to the implementation reports sold back, the exact numbers for how much things were sold out. There are reasonable suspicions and doubts, and I'm only going to give on one occasion that customerism is present in these sales. Even today, on my question from a year ago, I can't see half anywhere, in any government materials, whether the two holiday facilities in Umag were actually sold for 6 million, as I warned at the time. Today, too, one holiday capacity in this decree, estimated at 8 million, is the value of a garage, not a house or apartment. And we simply deserve Members if we have already taken this decision to win, whether it has not been sold by now, but if it has been, for how much money has been sold.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you. Member Cyril Testen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. I would just add a few words to the debate we had on the Committee on Finance. At the principle level, we all agree that the country must withdraw from the economy as soon as possible and thus enable better business for economic operators. Here we are united, but when we come to concrete cases, as we have now come to the New Maribor Credit Bank, I think that this unity is no longer in place and that we are trying, with a fig in our pocket, to prevent all possible ways of changing. Otherwise, I cannot explain to myself the debate and also the proposals that were on the Committee on Finance from the fact that the conclusion on sales is attached to the fact that it is not the right price, but to all possible other excuses. I think there's another background. I do not know the right answer, but I would like to know the reason why, in particular, the opposition strongly opposes all major or major sales and that it comes from every such sale a great political story. I think this is a fundamental question that no one wants to answer directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you. Member of the Parliament, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, has the floor. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to a government representative. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to explain something about the questions that have been raised here today. First of all, it's a question of the report. I think this is a legitimate question, and I would like to assure this national assembly that the documentation that has been prepared and which is part of the budget proposal will be obtained in the coming days. If I'm properly informed, it's already on the website. The report is very detailed on the implementation of all these decisions. The report is much more detailed than it's ever been before. I'm sure there'll be another question here and there. There is a possibility that these things will be asked in concrete terms when we discuss the entire documentation that is part of the 2007 and 2008 draft budget. Then there is the comment that the sale of assets, in particular financial ones, should also be the basis for closing the various budget gaps. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that, in accordance with Article 74 of the Public Finance Act, which was adopted in 1999, the purchase is primarily used to pay off debts, financing accounts. And that's why it has to work. And as far as the current Minister of Finance is concerned, I will never propose any change as far as that is concerned. However, the possibility in this same law is mentioned, and this is set out in Article 74 in order to be applied in accordance with a specific law, this is the right special law to be adopted so that these funds can be earmarked for any other purpose or other purpose, and this is, of course, a decision of the State Assembly. As far as I know, this has only been done once, and this is when selling a telecommunications network, where it was legally decided that part of it should go to investors, that is to say to those who have invested in these things in the past. In the law on budget implementation, this may also not be required by a specific law, and it may also be in the annual ZIPR. I can also assure you that in the draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007, we are not proposing any exceptions to this principled position. The funds that the State will acquire in this area, if actually implemented, will be earmarked for what is already laid down in the Public Finance Act - and that is to say, it is the payment of the debt. Now, as far as the procedure is concerned. I just want to talk about the bank of Maribor. In my introductory presentation, I have also said that sales, such a decree has already been adopted in this National Assembly in the past, in 2001 and 2003, but this has not happened, but no finalisation has occurred. In 2005, we had not yet had any definitive position on the government as to what this strategy was supposed to be, you know that this was adopted somewhere in September 2005 as an accession, the final approval was based on the work of the Special Commission, which was drawn up as part of the expert groups working in the field of reform, and that only after the ZIPRO was adopted could we not present this resolution. However, when the final government decided what the approach should be, as regards the concrete New Credit Bank of Maribor, we have also proposed this in accordance with the law in the National Assembly, we are now discussing this. What are we talking about? If the national assembly adopts this decree, then we can start with the procedure laid down in the regulation on the sale of assets. We can have various working groups on the government, one or the other, when serious work begins, so-called [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] When we want to review what is actually worth today, this is also related to certain costs, which can only be implemented in accordance with the Regulation, which is now in force. [[..]] So, without this permission, the Commission cannot meet, we can have working groups, they cannot work seriously in this area, but we want to start in 2006 and therefore in full openness, transparency we come to this national assembly and we ask you to accept this decree so that we can start working. How will we report these things? I think that the example of this government's approach to these reports that you can legitimately expect is already in the documentation that will come into this National Assembly in line with the full documentation of the 2006 and 2007 draft budget, as far as the corrections are concerned, but I think that it is our duty to answer and, but also to supplement or even better, to inform the National Assembly more specifically, because it is finally our duty, but it is also your right to ask this. As for the matter of the fact that in 1994, if I correctly understood that the law provided for the sale of financial institutions to be made through law, I would like to point out that since 1999 when the Public Finance Act was passed, the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of Privatisation of Legal Persons and Property Ownership of the Republic of Slovenia of 1995 has ceased to apply. This decision, I do not know if it is a decision whether this law, as we have heard today, has been repealed since the adoption of the Public Finance Act. In ZIPR, this is called the annual law on the implementation of the budget, but these sales procedures are also actually being implemented or are being initiated, this is the procedure provided for in the Public Finance Act. I would like to say something else about the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. The purpose of the government is to go to a two-phase process at this stage that is supposed to begin, based on a serious analysis of how much this is worth, we are going to sell to a key investor that is not yet there are no offers, since the procedure has not started at all, up to 20%, then there is also a domestic tranche, that is to say, the purpose of the government is to open up the possibility that Slovenian citizens and citizens will be able to do so, ranging from 5% to 10%, and then the so-called institutional tranche of 20% to 25%. The first phase will hold state ownership of 50 plus 1 share, and then we will only go to phase two when we see how this is actually going to work. The government consciously decided not to go, that we would not allow this procedure to start with some consolidation of the New Credit Bank Maribor system. In 2004, as I mentioned in my introductory presentation, there was an association between the postal bank and the bank of Nova Gore, in fact this process has not yet been fully implemented. We don't have here yet, we're not standing in front of an integrated institution, but this has to be achieved, but this procedure, how this will be done, will be done at the same time as we go into this first phase. But the second phase should not start if this is not achieved, because it is the only way to optimize what we have. Otherwise, we see in the New Bank of Credit Maribor as an all-Slovenian bank, still with its headquarters in Maribor, which has a very good network all over Slovenia, by connecting it with the Postal Bank and Novogorška, so that it can become one all-Slovenian bank, which will actually operate in the field of servicing in Slovenian territory, we will not ban them, at least in this vision it is not, they can do elsewhere in the world, but it is supposed to be what a good one says in English. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Bank, which is still missing in Slovenia. In the coming years, the pressure of competition in the European area is very strong, as far as this is concerned. We must continue this procedure in order to do so as soon as possible. However, the long-term objective is, as has been adopted in the reform document, to keep the Slovenian State 25% plus 1 share in the Maribor bank, while the second would be to either increase the share of a strategic, pardon, key investor, so named, domestic tranches and institutional investors. We also have a greater hope for institutional investors. In the coming weeks, perhaps a few months, and in every way this year, the National Assembly will also receive a very important law in which we will try to finalize and normalise the conditions for the development of our domestic capital market. It is our great concern that today the saving of Slovenians and Slovenians, our citizens and citizens due to the unregulated system is going abroad and does not play the role we all expect in our economy. It's a huge drawback to the past. Now I don't want to open up the story of the various PIDs and the ZIZD because you know very well how this has provided a legal basis for one of the greatest frauds in our common history. So when we settle this when the National Assembly finally gives its word and permission to regulate the capital market in the Republic of Slovenia, then we can also expect that institutional investors, Slovenian institutional investors will be much more present in these institutions and that no country, directly to this government or any other government will actually have to deal with the operational work of banking institutions. This is not a state business, we have nothing to do in this area. However, we must ensure that these institutions actually play the role of our economy, which we can legitimately expect from Slovenian savers and savers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you. Since we've managed or you'll be able to sell the bank in 90 minutes, we still have time. I therefore ask who wants to have a discussion on the basis of Article 71. I'm opening the application procedure. Three Member States and a representative of the Government. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Just to clarify. Perhaps one proposal from a member of the group that we have put forward to resell these major financial investments. When we proposed that the National Assembly should be informed, not at the plenary session, at least the Finance Committee, of the reselling programme once it has been confirmed by the government. Why am I talking about this? If the National Assembly already gives the legal basis to the government, because otherwise it is not possible, by this decision that it can join the procedure from the sale of some state property, and once again I stress that we are giving a blank bill because we do not know the right values, and then the government sets up a commission, this commission shall carry out with the authorised institutions evaluation, prepare a programme and then go on sale. In a way, it would be fair and correct, if we already give this blank opinion with this decree for this marriage basis to the government, that it will bring this back to us and that we will get this program back before the transaction, to the National Assembly, to see the realization of that yanko currency that we gave. Once again, I stress that this is some corrective relationship between cooperation, legislation such as now, between the government and the national assembly. However, and this was our second proposal, we propose that legislation be changed in this direction and that things be arranged differently, that we no longer give these bulwarks in the National Assembly, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you. Member Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. I think I owe it to me, given my previous discussions and the debate I have heard, to stress once again some of the typical features of this proposed law. The fact is that it is only that list of the real and financial assets of the State which the State considers to be suitable for resale. This is simply an option or we are opening the procedure to carry out the divestment process itself. However, I would like to point out that for each capital investment, a privatisation programme must be drawn up, which must be based on an analysis of the industry and the company's needs for further development, and on this basis propose an appropriate combination of privatisation methods. That's what's going on now. The methods and procedures for the sale of capital investments by countries must be set in such a way that they can simultaneously achieve the key objectives of the sale of state property, which are, in addition to maximising the selling price and thus the budgetary revenues, the establishment of an ownership structure that will ensure effective governance, competitiveness and successful development in the long term. The methods of sale are defined more precisely in the provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Regulation on sales and other forms of disposal of state and municipality assets, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 123/3. In order to amend these procedures, we need to amend this provision and the Regulation on the acquisition, disposal and management of real property of the State and municipalities; Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 12/3. From the explanation in the annual sales programme, individual capital investments are only indicative. Each type of capital investment must produce an individual sales programme of that capital company before the final sale decision. In a particular programme of capital investment sales, which the government decides to accept, Mr Kumer, I think it should be laid down that some things are also made known to the National Assembly in particular to greater investment - on the basis of the relevant professional grounds, the specific objectives of selling this capital investment, the specific methods to be used in the sale, and the procedures and deadlines for implementing these methods will be defined. The preparation of a specific capital investment sales programme will also identify all necessary preparatory actions, careful financial, organisational and legal review, asset assessment and so on. I think it is my duty to clarify this, because there has been a great deal of debate going in a different direction, in a direction that is not the subject of this decree. Here we go and decide what we're going to give. What we want to change in systemic legislation, we need to cut down on these laws that regulate it, or we need to change it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you. The word has been given by Member Rudolf Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u48	President, thank you so much for your word. Mr. Secretary, my dear colleagues and colleagues have a very nice greeting! I mean, if we didn't have the money, then we'd have the territory, and we'd have the property, and we'd be conquering each other like we used to in history -- with guns. And the most powerful weapon to adopt certain things, from influence to concrete things, is money today and money needs to be very careful, even if a person lives in a small country like Slovenia. People who manage money have a lot of responsibility to people, some who will be remembered for being excellent, and others who will be cursed their whole lives to be put on a baby pole. I would, but it has nothing to do with you, Dr. Bajuk, but I speak from my own experience, when I was first in Argentina with a motorboat Bohinj, it was flourishing, it was economically successful, we were driving 3,500 tons just the skin of cattle back so I didn't talk about other things. When I arrived two decades later, however, they had so much inflation that they had one course in the morning and another course in the afternoon. The people did not do this; it was a policy led by the state to put it in that position. And for that reason, one must be extremely careful about these things. Maribor burned himself in the possession of, say, the Ztorog factory. Where is he now? She is nowhere, but for decades she has been giving bread and milk to people in this environment. But I also think that, Dr. Bajuk, you mustn't blame me, and as a government, I don't believe anything. I'll just give you two examples. The first case is the Mountain Routes Act, where you promised in January that you would put amendments on them, that we would have one law that would to a certain extent prevent the countless deaths in our mountains. I've got people on the phone, but until today, you know, when it was January, nothing was made of this. But people ask me whether it really matters to this government whether people die or not, or whether they really have so much work to do, that they can't do it. Second thing. Not specifically for you, but flying to the government as a whole is a law on harmonious and regional development. This law on coherent and regional development has given the government to regulate itself the cohesion region's decisions, which will be the main generator of development. I ask you what is now going on with these cohesion regions, you have then promised another cohesion region, where is now the seat of this, what is doing, what is doing, none of this. Because I'm an opposition MP, I'm telling you what you're saying in the future is going to happen, sorry, I don't believe it, and I prefer "the sparrow in my hand as the pigeon on the roof." I, Mr President, because we have plenty of time, will only apply once more, I cannot say what I would like to say, because there will be more circles. Bo, will, don't worry, because you have a system like this. But there's something I'd like to say. That the independence was just that they had their own country and that we lived, lived, and somehow tried to make our own decisions on this land. When selling such a bank as the New Bank of Credit Maribor, in which you wrote that its sale would increase prosperity, I think when I listen to what will happen, but I don't know if it will happen or what it is, but I don't know anything about it, I doubt it, and I think that's how it's going to sell the decision-making here, it's probably over 30 billion, but it's over 221 billion, and in such a way it seems completely irresponsible to me from the Members we're sitting here today. I find this completely irresponsible. Because time is chasing me, I'm going to tell you in an argument why this is irresponsible, and I'm just going to draw you the whole script that I see if what you're saying isn't really going to happen. Guarantees that this will be done, and from the work you've had so far, I haven't really been able to get it. That is why my doubts and skepticism are that in this case it is a great national interest that the Slovenian People's Party has always supported, but it looks like "tempora mutant et nos mutamur and illis" today is a completely different opinion than it was when it was us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you. A representative of the government has also been reported to the floor. Mr. Secretary, will you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Of course, we have no answer to what has happened to those promises you have just mentioned about mountain paths, and I will also be interested in and demand that you receive an integrative response. I would just like to point out one thing, and this is about the proposal made by the honourable Member. I would just like to point out that the Public Finance Act was adopted in 1999, the regulation implementing it was also adopted at the time, we are working in accordance with this law and with this regulation now in force. It is true, however, that this proposal of yours will be able to be put into debate when we bring the amendment of the Public Finance Act to the National Assembly in the second half of this year. What you're proposing is to be more transparent. The fact is that the law does not require and also the regulation which was adopted at the time. This regulation was not invented by this government, nor by the law. We will examine this matter and take your proposal very seriously, because at least as far as I am concerned, I am sure that this government has nothing to hide and we will act openly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you. Dear Members! A brief explanation as to the real estate. As has already been said several times, I would like to point out once again around prices that after the adoption of the decision, each property will be formally assessed by an authorised valuer, which will only be the starting point for the further sale process, where the government follows the objective of selling each such property as favourably as possible at a public auction or under other envisaged procedures as provided for by the law itself. The law clearly specifies that the nature and scope of the decision itself or the content of the decree should be defined, in particular, as regards the property being sold. The government started when it started drafting the first decree, engaged in a comprehensive regulation of this area and also prepared appropriate information support. Today, decisions can be made only by real estates that are, of course, landscaped, which have a legal entire structure behind them. In addition, as you have seen from the decree itself, we try to provide a brief explanation of what the situation is or what is the reason for the sale or additional identification of the land book deposit, the partial number and so on. So the matter would be as transparent as possible. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are also preparing a real estate law, which will also go into wider consideration in the coming weeks, and, of course, we will also take a number of comments or proposals into account in this preparation and follow some better solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you. Comrade Moja, I can't give you a word, I can only give you procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u53	Mr President, I would ask you if, in the light of the answers we have now heard, further questions have arisen, the National Assembly decides to continue this debate. But you can make your own decisions. I think we're halfway there. There's still time for 2 hours 33 minutes, not one third of us here, not even the president who's calling the National Assembly at 9:00 a.m. doesn't come here. I'd ask you nicely in the interest of this country, it's 220 billion dollars to let us sign up again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u54	I'm not gonna put this to a vote, but I'm gonna do it. Since we have 2 hours of 32 minutes at our disposal, there was so much time at the beginning of the reported time that we did not use, I would ask if individual parliamentary groups could only announce the time they will have to distribute it properly in two hours and 32 minutes. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Proposal, Comrade Anderlich?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u55	[[...]] [[Not included.]] Ask if anyone wants to discuss it and then decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u56	That'll be better. I'm going to start the application-gathering procedure. I'm on it. He'll be a colleague of Mogue's, and now we're gonna be in trouble, and neither of us signed up for the debate. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] You pressed the wrong button. [[...]] Now I'm asking you, shall we do it again? You have the floor of your colleague Mogo, and you will be followed by a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u57	It's slow. I don't know what it is. So if I keep going, I'm done with the national interest. The other thing is that it is not only a matter of economic relations, but the sale of the bank to such an extent is also a first-class political issue, as some colleagues from New Slovenia have already mentioned. Why? As such, the bank has only a seat in Maribor and the owner is the state and the state has delegated management structures and all things to this bank and has also led the policy of this bank. And I must say that, at least in this sense, the country was still quite bearable, unless I say almost a good owner, because it had a wise influence on the decision-making in which the projects would take place, it had a wise influence on the human resources policy in these companies which were in charge of the bank, and it had a wise impact on life in Maribor, from the insurance company, Dinner, to everything else. It is now the following, however, if we lose such a large proportion of Slovenians in this share, but the impact or decision-making and outflow of profits would be completely different, as is now the case, but we are in a market economy, I say nothing. The third thing this bank has played in this space is not to be ignored at all, but its role in the cultural, research and sports fields. If it weren't for the New Maribor Credit Bank, we'd never have the Lent Festival. The main sponsor of the Slovenian National Theatre in Maribor is Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, and so on I can list you. Losing a company like this, I don't know, the worst thing would be being a third-rater, Sparkasse, a bank, which also means, in terms of, a huge, huge damage. That's why I'm so scared with my left hand to push this button and to waste everything we have now in our possession. Look, we'll probably get to the two cohesion regions sooner or later. Because it is also necessary from a political and economic perspective to draw on cohesion funds. And it would be good if no one thought about sharing now and thinking about the future of these banks, also to say how the banks in this piece of cake, which will be made up of the European Union and from this, will be involved in sharing this. Colleagues, I think that for the kind of supply we have today, with so little information or so much to say when we vote for it, we're playing essentially like some kind of gambling and gambling without knowing what kind of profit we're going to get in the end. I would like to point out once again that I am a decision-maker with the information I have received, and I cannot support anyone by taking my word for it. But I think about it, Mr. Secretary, in the end, when we die, and we'll have that monument, it'll always say, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] "let the earth be easy for you." [[...]] Only if we are so reckless about these projects is the question of which country will I last lie in. When I was born, Josef Fimental No. 2, Marburg, 44. And that is why you must understand this pain of that part up and with a kindly request, if your voting machine will vote to include this part of my debate in a later resolution. But I wouldn't recommend that you put it through a procedure like this, if there's a problem, it'll only be on you. I would be very happy that what we are talking about today would not be the "overture behind the requiem" of the New Maribor Credit Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u59	I would also like to start with a personal note, and I understand you, because I was not born in Marburg, but in Eibach. And I am well aware that we are living in a world where we are now heading in a more human way than this land and our ancestors were used to. I am proud and grateful to be able to live in such a time when I do not have to hide and confess my belongings to Slovenia. I understand these doubts, and I know that these things are happening. And that is why it is envisaged in the programme adopted by the Government that the State will retain 25 plus one share, by being able to defend and prevent those changes that may be of a fatal nature for the existence of an institution, or by changing its key legal basis of the Statute in accordance with the Company Act. Otherwise, maybe this is the difference, but I don't even know if it's the difference when we talk about our doubts about what might happen to us, we always lean on the role that the country should have in this area. I think the time has come, and especially when we live in a market economy, that such a responsibility is also assumed by the whole society, the Slovenian investors, but not only by the state, through the state. If this is only on the side of the country, then we have all these problems, which we have repeatedly faced and we are talking about, not only in this national assembly, but also in the broader political space, the role of the State in the management of these institutions, but we know that the state as such is not the best, but not the appropriate manager of financial institutions. Therefore, the responsibility of the whole society will also have to be stressed and this possibility created, if we really want a certain institution to remain in Slovenian hands, it will also depend on Slovenian decisions, not just Slovenia's political decisions. So, to ensure that the key decisions have always remained in Slovenian hands, this is achieved with 25 plus 1, but we also have to fight to create such conditions that Slovenians can trust and invest in their own institutions; and this is the law on the development of the capital market, which unfortunately we do not have yet, but we will have it in the second half of the year, at least through treatment. I hope that we will also accept it so that there will be some political consensus that this part will be settled. Until we provide legal certainty to small shareholders in Slovenia, all talks are in vain about how to keep certain things in Slovenian hands. I would also be very, very sad if a third-class Sparkasse actually took this responsibility, because we know that it will not replace the role of mint for cultural and more general purposes than is played by such institutions as NKBM. It is also necessary to create a legal basis for this and a proposal to amend the corporate tax, which increases the possibility of relief by 0.2% for cultural and wider purposes. I think it's also a step in the right direction. So, I can assure you that in our essence we agree, and I don't think that the government has any different approach to it from your performance, your presentation, we have these doubts, too, and because we also have them, we have decided on such a model, some gradual privatisation that will not then create for us such positions, of which there is no real return. This company has put too much emphasis on having these institutions, it would be pointless to waste them without real judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft resolution, the decision-making assembly will take place today in accordance with the time-frame of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 17.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - First draft law on public procurement on water, energy, transport and postal services. I would like to inform you that a total of two hours and 35 minutes are scheduled for this debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members and Members with first-signed Dr. Paul Gantar requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the government, Minister Bajuk, to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. You have before you the proposal for a law on public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted it on 11 August 2006. This proposal brings to the Slovenian legal order Directive 2004/17 on the coordination of procurement procedures in the water, energy, transport and postal fields. The law takes into account the experience we have gained in Slovenia in the past period and some innovations that will contribute to the improvement, at least so we hope for the public procurement that we still need. The specific nature of the infrastructure sector and the country's connection to it requires public procurement arrangements in this segment in a specific law. The entities in this sector operate in markets characterised by the existence of specific and exclusive rights granted by the State in connection with supply, supply or management of the network. This area cannot be left to market forces and competition is therefore limited. The novelty of the law is a special arrangement in the field of postal services, as the market is opening up in these services and the rules of the classical public procurement for this area are therefore overrated. Public procurement rules differ for contracting entities operating in the infrastructure field in certain areas from those applicable to so-called classic public contracts and the rules are the same. The law on public procurement was discussed by the National Assembly just yesterday. The Law on Public Procurement and the Law on Public Procurement in the Water, Energy and Transport Area and in the field of postal services are uniformly regulated by reserved contracts relating to the employment of persons with disabilities, the use of so-called environmental criteria and technical specifications of "and house" contracts, such as contracts within the house, electronic auctions, public procurement portal, framework agreement and dynamic procurement system, as new procurement procedures that are allowed and regulated by the acquis of the European Union. Payment discipline when the tenderer performs with subcontractors, public procurement under European limit values. In terms of the contracting authority’s use of procurement procedures and methods, exemptions and the like. By contrast to the so-called classic procurement procedure, the procedure for negotiating a preliminary publication is also generally applicable under this law. This law, which is before you today, eliminates unnecessary formalism in procurement procedures by allowing for the widest competition, while public procurement must take account of the economy, efficiency and economy. Social and environmental components are also included in the proposal for a more transparent use of public funds. The bill respects and includes agreed rules on European limit values at European level, under the thresholds, procurement procedures are simplified and therefore more favourable to contracting authorities and tenderers, at least we hope, but nevertheless transparency that the cost-effectiveness of public spending is guaranteed even in contracts of lower value. This law, like the Public Procurement Act, also introduces some innovations into Slovenia's legal order that will contribute to the improvement of public procurement, such as the introduction of electronic procurement for electronic auctions, covering specific procurement methods and the production of technical specifications. The law clearly distinguishes entities which are contracting entities and carry out public procurement under the rules of the Public Procurement Act and contracting entities that carry out public procurement under the rules of the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy and transport field of postal services. Where the contracting authority, which is also a contracting entity under this Act under the law, on public procurement, carries out public procurement in the areas covered by this Act only in accordance with this Act. In accordance with the Directives, the law introduces a procedure to determine whether a particular activity is directly exposed to competition from a sector and the conditions to be excluded from the law are met. Direct exposure to competition will need to be assessed on the basis of objective criteria, taking into account the specific characteristics of each sector and initiating proceedings before the European Commission. Dear Members and Members! You're looking at the other of the two public procurement laws. I hope that possible interventions in the legislative text in the framework of the parliamentary procedure will contribute to improving the rules for the most efficient and transparent public procurement and use of public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Willi Rezman, is expected to present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. We're moving on. Comrade Bojan Starman will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Not at all. Comrade Paula Gantar will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on public procurement in the water, energy and transport fields and in the field of postal services governs public procurement in areas which are specific and require different regulation of procurement procedures, as is the case with the supply of goods and services which are freely available on the market. What are these specialties? For the first time, as we see, these activities, which are mainly or exclusively network-based or network-based, are therefore linked to the construction and management of networks on which it is relatively difficult, and in some cases it is not possible to ensure the competition of suppliers on the same network. However, the duplication of networks is, in some cases, economically and technically pointless. Exceptions to this rule are electronic communications, which are therefore exempted from this law. Secondly, in some cases, activities and services related to "natural monopolies", such as drinking water, are activities which, under the same conditions, must be provided to all or are the management of this activity an obligation imposed on users and operators, such as the separation and cleaning of waste water. Therefore, in these cases, the market cannot function perfectly or at all. These activities are usually defined by the concept of economic public service, which should also be changed. It is true, however, that this law is already amending certain non-life provisions of the Economic Public Services Act, in particular as regards procurement procedures. In my own presentation of the position of the LDS Club, I will not go into more detail into copying and repeating the objectives of the law and the main solutions, but I would like to draw attention to a few things under this law. The title of the law does not fully correspond to the matter under consideration, the water area is defined too wide, since the law applies only to water supply and waste water separation and treatment. Water engineering facilities, as the directive calls them, only when these facilities provide drinking water in addition to other purposes. A rule is laid down when more than 20% of the total water supply provided by these facilities is subject to this law. So water management facilities, as we know them in our country or as the directive says - water engineering facilities such as dams, flood embankments, wet and dry reservoirs, today's systems, measures and water retention facilities, are not among the subjects of this law, but are understood as water. I therefore suggest that the proposer, this is the government, for the second reading, consider changing the title of the law so that there is no confusion about the subject covered by the law. The introductory text, here I am referring to a preliminary explanation, but also only the text of the articles would need a thorough reading, as it is clear that the drafters are the copyists in the explanations of the directive, without having a special hearing for the language that is also poorly understood by the cities. Otherwise, in the LDS Club, we believe that a special public procurement regime in the area covered by the law is necessary and that we support the law in principle. The law is intended to contribute to greater transparency, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of public procurement in this area and thus to better service quality. In addition to the already well-known procurement procedures, we support the introduction of public procurement under the so-called framework agreement for the repetitive supply of predetermined and identifiable goods under criteria and provisions such as the law, this will certainly, in our opinion, limit the possibility of breaking down contracts to smaller sums and avoiding the post-commitment procedure. We also support the introduction of a dynamic purchasing system by means of electronic requisitioning for requisitions. We hope that the Ministry will be able to establish this system within the envisaged deadline. Of course, we also support the criteria which have been common here and which have generally been in force until now, it is said that prior to ordering, the environmental, as well as social, standards and criteria are taken into account. In addition, I would like to mention that we express our support for those provisions and regulations relating to public works and services contracts. These contracts have a type of specificity, especially in the case of constructions, such as a composite activity, i.e. with several contractors and subcontractors, they cover projective activity, design, only the execution of works, and in carrying out parts of a variety of activities. Since we do not yet have a list of construction activities, as the law provides, we cannot see whether Dars will have to go public under this law after the law has been enacted. Under certain criteria under this law, yes, but of course not according to certain criteria. That is why I would like an answer to this question. Will these companies move on to this system? In particular, I would point out that it is good that, in Article 35, which regulates a contract under a negotiated procedure without prior publication, the award of the contract under this procedure is made possible in point 3 in order to protect technical or artistic requirements in the execution of the contract. In the past, we had quite a few comical situations when the selected author at the architectural competition was already excluded from the project documentation candidates, for example, to obtain a building permit, because the competition for obtaining this documentation was based on his project and therefore it was the one entrusted to him with the ideal and conceptual solution of the facility that was then eliminated, that this object would also lead to the end. This law in this area regulates this and I hope that this is also regulated by the law on public procurement that we dealt with yesterday. Otherwise, we expect the proposer of the second reading law to propose a draft regulation as set out in the adopted article of the law, which is issued by the Government and lists the contracting authorities under this law, to propose a draft list of services A and a list of services B referred to in Article 25 of the Act. We support the bill at the parliamentary club. We want answers to the questions that we have asked, and in particular we also want to know whether the constituents of the law, which I particularly welcome, but have already left, have also consulted those operators and contracting entities who have experience in the field of ordering and implementing such services and have done and have done, and have done so, precisely on practical problems in the implementation of the law. We don't know how to judge this right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you. We continue with the presentations. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! The proposal for a law on public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services is certainly one of the laws that we need, since these are activities that cannot be classified as those of all the others that we are solving through the classic law on public procurement. However, we note that when preparing this law, somehow as everything appears, we are not aware of the situation we have in Slovenia, because when assessing the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, we can find that two reasons are clearly recorded. The first reason for the adoption of the law is the directive itself and the transposition of these rules into our legal order, and the next main reason is certainly very clear, since it is a sector, the closure of the markets in which these companies operate, and of course it is also an exclusive and specific right granted by either countries or local communities, and, last but not least, the public information set out, the state of the network and the facilities we need to ensure that the energy, the water economy, in particular those two, is carried out in an efficient and quality manner. Of course, these data cannot always be made publicly available to everyone, so it is necessary to prescribe a specific law. However, it is lacking in describing this law, especially in the first chapter, that it is already an assessment of the situation. In order to better and more effectively design solutions in this law, we would urgently need a picture of the state of the network and operators in Slovenia. Because we have a very different area of water supply and water network management, we also have extremely different municipalities in our environment, and this brings with it the necessity to analyse this situation and, in fact, to expect action through the law on public procurement in this area. It seems a little easier for me to introduce this law and directive in the field of gas and heat as well as electricity. It is, however, a network that is carried out how many times as a remote network and which is overly pervasive across the country or at least across a region. However, we do not have any information on how many suppliers or heat or gas or water could be included in the invitation to tender for the supply of one of these ranges, of course in a single city, in a particular region. Above all, they are probably interesting in this area of the city, because the law and the European Directive also limit the height or set limits for which the amount of the law applies and for which it does not apply, such as amounts above 32 million and so on, or for sums in another area above billions and 260 million. In short, it shows only the limitation of the application of this law to these amounts, that in Slovenia we really need a good description of the existing situation on the entire network and, of course, of the possible operators with these networks or with these public services. Once we have this picture done, we will be able to talk about the fact that the law is not just a copy of the directive, but is actually a transposition of the directive into Slovenian territory and thus an improvement, at least so in our parliamentary group, the situation in this public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Hello, my dear. The request of the contracting authorities and tenderers for greater transparency of public contracts found support in the New Slovenia Group. The proposal for a law on public procurement in the water, energy and transport fields and the field of postal services for this request is further followed. Due to the country's specific relationship to the entities of these sectors, such as the granting of exclusive rights and the consequent closure of this market, public procurement arrangements in infrastructure sectors are exempted from the general public procurement law. The proposal for a law shall specify which activities are applicable, which entities are obliged to use it and which public contracts are involved. In doing so, it is worth mentioning the gradual liberalisation of the public procurement market. In fact, if an activity is once exposed to competition on a market to which access is not restricted, it ceases to be subject to regulation under this law and if an activity is found to be subject not only to free entry but also to operate under conditions of effective competition, it is possible to abolish the restrictions laid down by the law. Following the adopted Directives, both proposals for public procurement laws introduce the use of electronic means, which significantly contributes to the reduction of procedures. In this proposal for a law in the New Slovenia Group, we also point out the regulation of financial discipline in cases where tenderers perform with subcontractors. The problems brought by practice cannot be solved only with a high interest rate, as subcontractors come from a financially weaker position where illiquidity can force them to shut down and recovery procedures are too expensive and too long-lasting. Our parliamentary group also supports the bill's proposal to simplify the tough rules in the context of procurement, which removes administrative obstacles. Among them is the introduction of a simple publication system on the public procurement portal. In 2005, public procurement in the Republic of Slovenia exceeded, as we have already heard yesterday, 441.3 billion dollars without VAT, or 1.8 billion euros a year, representing 25.6% of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the previous year. So last year, the share of public procurement was 6.7% of gross social product points. As we have already pointed out in the New Slovenia Group, it is precisely because of this volume of public procurement that limits on which a public contract must be published on the portal should be considered. It is necessary to ensure the appropriate quality of the data collected in order to generate a real picture of the award of public contracts. We certainly support the bill proposal in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, who insists, despite Friday and noon, that you listen to us when we present either on our behalf or the position of the parties represented in this Parliament. The proposal for a law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services follows the same objectives as the proposal for a law on public procurement, which we discussed yesterday and presented the views of the Slovenian People's Party, we also made some important comments on some of the provisions. At the same time, this law, which we are considering today, regulates specificities specific to public procurement in areas arising from the title of the law itself. The law is prepared in accordance with the principles and provisions of the 2004 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The area of public procurement governed by this law is characterised by market closure and therefore requires special treatment. Yesterday, when discussing the proposal for a law on public procurement, we pointed out some shortcomings and subordinance of the bill on certain procurement procedures. This law also repeats some of the shortcomings. However, as we have pointed out, it is possible to correct them appropriately until the second reading. Under the Directive, the law provides for a wide-ranging release of competition without restricting the entry of interested service providers. Competition in the field of energy, transport and postal services is impossible and often limited. We believe that the proposed law will contribute to a more intensive development of the market in areas where, at least for the time being, the market is relatively closed. However, greater competition between different providers brings a number of advantages both for public procurement and for the users of individual services governed by this Act. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the draft law as a suitable basis for further consideration, and I reiterate the need to examine in detail the areas in which we had a comment on yesterday's public procurement law and which are also repeated in the proposal for a law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As usual, we are going through a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word of a colleague, Kristian Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. I am this proposal for a law on public procurement, which, somehow, continued yesterday's debate, which was very similar, is more about harmonisation for a provision and directive today, and for a specific area which is very much important for the country as an investor, and I think this experience so far has been and is that this has been introduced into this new proposal of the Public Procurement Act, which is particularly simpler, clearer, more transparent by the State, and this particular area of postal services, which has so far been very limited in terms of competition and these access. This step seems to me positive, not least the negotiation process, which is an important thing, because as a contracting authority this possibility can also be reached at a more favourable price to simplify procedures to allow competition, transparency. These are things that go in the right direction of public procurement. I believe that the first general debate, which is under way, will give some new, perhaps positive steps to the proposer to fix what else to fix. Certainly what we talked about yesterday, electronic ordering, auctioning, these are steps forward in this direction that this technology is also taken into account in this public procurement. Yesterday I made it clear that we would still take those naked formalities aside a little bit and take a closer look at the content of the offer. That seems to me to be very crucial. So that we don't hunt on commas, calls, questions, but on the content of the offer, on what the provider offers with price, quality and so on. And here I think that this law follows this and that the goal is to improve the use of public funds in this way, because here is the key problem. Large amounts of the annual budget, as well as the national budget, are also being used here. I believe that this law will follow and allow this to happen, so I will be happy to support it myself because it is going in the right direction of public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you. I give my word to a magician. They're sweeping Stebeta.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, in this law, I have sought only the subject of articles 44, 45. This is a major problem, which I see as always technical or economic criteria and similar criteria relating to the entity, to the provider, to the future operator, are required under exclusional conditions or references. In this way, for example, by restricting or eliminating those providers who do not have a business reference of about 200 million for a tendering transaction, which is also 200 million, simply new providers who would come to the market and want to compete for such transactions can never obtain this reference, a new company. I believe that such a reference, including a technical condition, etc., depends on people participating as contractors or subcontractors in competition or later implementation. Such a way, which is still conceived in this bill, is also a general practice so far, simply means that new companies, new operators, are not able to break through this blockade in any way. This prevents liberalisation and competitiveness in the market. I propose that the articles be corrected in such a way as to require appropriate references and relate to operators as persons with the supplier or subcontractors. In this way, experts from a large company can switch to their own companies and with references as people, as well as experts with both financial and technical conditions, can compete in this new company equally on such calls. In this way, we should urgently increase the number of potential bidders on tenders that are not linked to already established companies. By this way, which is often used in practice so far, we simply prevent new operators from participating in such offers because they are simply excluded because the new company can never reach such a reference, simply because our tenders are already limiting them. I know from my practice that we are still, I don't know, 10 years ago often, and I also demand in my congregation that we don't set such conditions, and that people with their personal references have to prove such qualifications, of course, the seriousness of the business guarantee, the guarantee of the performance of the business, are matters to be obtained by such a firm from the relevant banks. Thus, the contracting authority is not at any risk that a team of people proving such references, but not an undertaking, because it has not yet acquired them and could not obtain them, if there are always such restrictions, can in fact become and obtain references in this sense as is traditionally required. I would ask that in this sense the matter be liberalised and that in this way the "new cameras" - new business entities can participate equally in such calls. Otherwise, I strongly support the means of bidding, electronic bids and all that, even if I would like to bid in terms of very normal performances, in which only the appropriate standards must be respected, to be auctioned practically without complicated calls, but only the topics of the call, the quantities and then the auctioneers come and compete for a variety of simpler, more extensive maintenance works, equipment replacements or anything where things are not related to the complexity of the project, but only to certain quantities or renewals of certain public areas or the acquisition of cars or certain items, this is done through simple bids, today also electronically. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. He's not here. Minister, you can do it in the end, but you can do it in the middle. At the end. It's a deal. The next on the list of applicants is Member Villa Trophynik. He's not here. And I give the word to Dr. Paul Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you. I have another question or question concerning the drafting of this 103rd article concerning jury decisions when it comes to the competition. I must say that I have failed to review and compare this Article with the directive because it is probably copied from the directive. But it's about being anonymous. The second paragraph says that the jury must review the plans, the projects, taking into account anonymity. And then paragraph 4 says that the jury must respect the anonymity of the contestants to take opinions or decisions. And he writes that he can invite candidates, if necessary, to clarify any aspects of the projects to answer questions. Now, it is not quite clear here whether anonymity is related to the fact that the candidates are known to the jury, but it respects and must protect their anonymity until the end of the competition, or whether it is anonymous competitions where candidates appear under the code and the jury is unknown, and if the jury is not known, of course they cannot be invited to the interview. Now - either one or the other. And I would ask you to take a good look at this, because both systems are possible and both have advantages and weaknesses, but it is only right that this is a matter for regulating this matter, but I would ask you to make sure that this is exactly as it is in the directive to clarify this ambiguity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you. I give the word to Ambassador Joseph Jerovska. He's not here. And my colleague, Bojan Starman, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to use this opportunity to give the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party on the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u78	Which parties?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u79	Slovenian Democratic Parties. We will support the proposed law in any way. It brings many things that will improve competitiveness, access to competition to this market, and, of course, we hope that it will also help to make these orders cheaper and save something on our public consumption. I have already given one thought in the procurement contracts that it is possible to find in a law somewhere one clause or some supplement that would in some way restrict or allow the possibility - either in a criminal way or elsewhere - that, despite all the regulations and all the procedures defined, someone will conclude a harmful contract for the State or for the contracting authority, which is in some way possible to do so if he chooses a so-called economic criterion that cannot be precisely defined. I think that this is one of the most important things to ensure in some way at least some control or some possibility of sanctioning someone who is unduly spending funds. In all laws, this matter is the same. Once again - Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, not of any other party, we will support this law and we want to be able to apply it as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you. And in the end, Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! First of all, I could truly thank you from the heart for all these comments and warnings. Certain things are really important that we still have to examine them. It is true that I am going specifically to Article 103, as you yourself have determined, translated into Slovenian what is in the directive itself, and only reading opens up this possibility of some discrepancy between paragraph 5 and paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. Surely we will examine this too, and we will make this clear before we read it again. I would also like to mention these doubts concerning the so-called breakdown of orders. This option is also open in the European Directive. We didn't have that principle before. I would like to point out that Article 18, as proposed, imposes in its first paragraph the obligation on the contracting authority to calculate the estimated value of the contract and to take into account the total total value of payments without VAT, including the possibility of increasing the volume of the contract and any increase in the value of the contract due to the choice of the correct procurement procedure. Therefore, the procurement procedure is determined on the basis of the whole, without VAT, plus any different annexes that occur then. You know what happens to us in the field of public procurement. They don't tell this government, our society as a whole. This principle is written in such a way that the procedure is determined on the basis of a whole without VAT, including any increase, just to avoid what you are afraid of. I think that's a legitimate question. We hope that it is properly resolved as it is. In any case, we will re-examine this if necessary. However, division into clusters is precisely so that we will not have such public procurements that only provide transactions to large monopolies. The reality of our society is that we are one aggregate of very small businesses, for which the government should also create the opportunity and the public sector to participate, but not only the famous giants, especially in the area of infrastructure. As far as the list is concerned. Article 111 provides that this will be done through a regulation, through a sub-legislative act. In fact, the list in the Directive itself is also defined as a certain addition to the Directive. We have no problem in giving you this in advance of your second reading. We have nothing to hide in this area. As regards cooperation in the preparation of the project and implementation. Yes, this is an option opened by the directive. He's got his own traps, I'm sure he's got them. I think we need to review this too if there is to be another reading to try to avoid these traps. In any case, however, this option is open as such. Finally, there are questions concerning Article 32. I think we're going to discuss this a lot. I think we have tried to adapt the reality of our economy in every way. One thing is what are the criteria for European principles to be applied. What, though, can be done on the basis of so-called smaller orders, which are very large and the largest in our system. I think it's a well-thought-out thing. If any better suggestions come, we are also ready to examine them and how we can take note. For now, we would insist on what we have. But if they do, we'll be happy to accept them. This is all for once, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Since we still have time available for this point, I ask who, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, still wants to discuss this point? I'm opening the application procedure. We have one registered, Member Pavel Gantar. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you. It won't take five minutes. I am pleased that Mr Minister has taken these comments seriously and will try to verify them. Neither do we, at least I know what is meant more precisely, and it is necessary to check this in some professional discussion, but I would still like to answer the question. I mentioned earlier in the introductory words what about public procurement in the field of road infrastructure, especially highways and others? Some of the provisions show that these orders will go according to this law and some of the features of roads and road infrastructures show that they do not. Do you therefore believe that DARS and the Company of the Republic of Slovenia will now issue public contracts under this law or with the general public procurement law?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The answer to that question is just the way it is. The activities of the DARS are not included in this sector, as this is a law relating to energy, transport and water for postal services. It's after that law you discussed yesterday, and this is, globally, about public procurement, because most of the work is there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you. I also conclude the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 12.30 a.m. With this I also interrupt this point, I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue, as we say, at 12:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national chemical safety programme with action plans for priority areas in the period 2006-2010. We are moving on to a resolution decision. At the same time, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item on the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the sales programme for the State's financial and real estate for 2006 and 2007. We're moving on to decision-making. At the same time, I am informing you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the decree would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 17. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 52 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the International Programme for the Conservation of Dolphins. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Spinners, which is used for experimental and other scientific purposes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 57 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. This is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the agenda, this is to consider the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Punishment or Equalization. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potrat to present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Republic of Slovenia has acceded to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading penalties or conduct in 1993. Its addition to the Optional Protocol, however, is important for the Group of Social Democrats to confirm the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to actively and effectively guarantee human rights and freedoms. This Protocol establishes a system of regular visits to independent international and state authorities in all places where people are deprived of their liberty by preventing torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. This is all the more important, according to what happened in Iraqi prisons, Guantanamo, or in secret prisons. The Protocol provides for the establishment of a new international supervisory institution, a subcommittee to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment of the United Nations, and lays down its tasks and powers. It also lays down the specific competences of the State preventive mechanisms to prevent torture and other inadmissible practices and penalties for the Parties to the Protocol. In doing so, it is particularly important to provide and facilitate access to information, to provide information to the Sub-Committee and to protect against sanctions against a person or organisation because it has provided the State preventive mechanism with real or non-real information related to the content of the Optional Protocol. The supervisory powers of the State preventive mechanism under the optional protocol shall be vested in the Ombudsman and part thereof shall be non-governmental and humanitarian organisations. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we expect delegations of the State Preventive Mechanism to exercise control over places where persons deprived of their liberty are plural, multidisciplinary and will also include representatives of NGOs, as Amnesty International warns that no Slovenian NGO has been involved in such control so far. This is also related to the allocation of funds for the supervision of non-governmental organisations. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we will examine in particular the proposal for a 2007 budget rebalancing and see whether the additional resources provided for the operation of the Ombudsman and for the financing of NGOs are taken into account. In the case of the Ombudsman, two new jobs related to new tasks should be provided. We will, of course, support this protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you. There are no other panellists. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 54 Members and Members were present, 54 of them voted against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBT COOPERATION AND THE PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL COOPERATION COOPERATION COOPERATION COOPERATION TaxES. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. To explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. I have been trying for some time to prove to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it is correct in the Slovenian language to name the country mentioned in this ratification, Moldova. For the second time, I will do this so that I do not support this ratification of the protest, because this is not being taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you. We're voting. There are 56 Members present and 50 votes in favour against 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Period of the day - on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control of Vulnerable Systems against Ship Education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENT OF ACTS OF WORLD POSITION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONFIRMATION OF THE WORKING TEXTS OF THE LEGISLATION. In doing so, I ask you whether anyone objects to the adoption of all 22 laws in a package. Who's opposed? [[Nobody.]] Then allow the next introduction. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Officially purified texts of the following laws shall be confirmed: Law on mandatory insurance in traffic, Law on the establishment of municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, Law on Payments, Law on Maritime Affairs, Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, Law on Media, Law on the Protection of New Varieties of Plants, Law on the Return of Investments in Public Telecommunications Networks, Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, Law on the Education of Adults, Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Law on Enforcement and Insurance, Law on the System of Salaries in the Public Sector, Law on the Control of the State Borders, Law on Foreigners, Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises, Law on Aviation, Law on Police, Law on the Law on Kobilina Lipica, Law on Elections in the National Assembly, Law on Employment and Insurance for the Example of Unemployment, Law on Insurance. The materials are published in the Lotus Notes programming environment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the congregation is listed as officially consolidated texts of those laws. That concludes this point. We're moving to 33. Period of the day, that's a mental-voluntary matter. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a candidate for Judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg, 12 proposals from the Judicial Council for the election to the judiciary, and a proposal from the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disability and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia to agree to the appointment of the Director of FIHO. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First, a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for Judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, submitted to the National Assembly, under Article 6 of the law on the nomination of candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, a proposal for election of Mr Mir Prek as a candidate for a first-degree judge in Luxembourg. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the Council, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Sculpture. He's quitting, too. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Saiovic has the floor, which is a percentage. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Franz Jazbec, Rudolf Mogue, Matjaž Han, Joseph Horvat. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted by surrounding "yes" or "against" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the proposed candidate from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for forever by all Members, 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Please, Members, who will assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 13.05 p.m. and will last until 13.20 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 1:30. Until then, I'm adjourning the session and the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We're moving on to the session. We continue with the adjournment of the 26th point - the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for a first-degree judge in Luxembourg. From the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for candidate for Judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 September 2006. Fifty-five ballots were distributed. Fifty-five ballots were delivered. There were two ballots invalid. There were 53 valid ballots. In favour of the 51 members, two members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Miro Prek was elected as Judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg by a majority of the votes of all Members. I sincerely congratulate him on this function. We are moving on to a proposal for electoral decisions. The Council of Justice submitted 12 proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of five District Judges and two District Judges at the District Court in Lenart, Ljubljana, Šentjuru near Celje and Celje; two District Judges and a District Judge at the Regional Court in Novo mesto and Ljubljana and two District Judges at the District Court in Novi Gorica. Does the Secretary of the Council of Justice want a word? No, no, no. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Simone Chuš Zadé to the District Court in Lenart. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sabine Lavrič to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Tanja Kobal Weapons at the district court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Andreja Fašun as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Dusan Barič as judge of the district judge in the District Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Gregorčič to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Novi Gradov. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Jasminka Jaša Trklja to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Lidija Zidanšek to the District Court in the District Court in Šentjur near Celje. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 of whom voted against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Janja Ipavec to the judicial seat of the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Urška Jazbar to the judicial seat of the District Court at the Regional Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. There are 56 Members present and 54 voted against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mateja Kikelj to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Goraz Kocjančič as judge of the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 51 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on a proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was presented by the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations of the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the Council, for the appointment of mags. Janez Juga as President of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The LDS Group will support Mr South's candidacy for president, pardon, for the heads of this foundation. It will support the fact that it has heard much positive when it is submitted and that it is not in doubt that it is suitable for the performance of this function. On this occasion, the President, as well as all respectable colleagues, would remind you of some unacceptable practice in the National Assembly, that individual candidates in the votes fall without saying one single word against the eligibility of the candidate without being given one thought and meeting all the formal conditions. This practice is unacceptable and for the National Assembly, I will say, also very embarrassing. The National Assembly has the right to make sovereign decisions on all matters on the agenda. However, when it rejects such nominations, it is my view that it is incumbent on the applicants to communicate the reasons for refusal. That's not what he does. This has not been done nor in the event of this application for FIHO, sometimes it does not do so when individual candidates are proposed by the President of the Republic. One day it may happen that the same will happen to the candidates proposed by the judiciary and so on. It is the responsibility of the National Assembly to ensure the smooth functioning of the institutions where its competence is to appoint responsible persons. If he doesn't have any doubts, he's bound by my judgment to confirm it. If he has political accounts with anyone, that's not the case, I'll say, in the space of what is the decision-making in the National Assembly. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to remind you that the coalition, with its ballots, machinations and so on, is undermining the reputation of the National Assembly when it rejects nominations, without making it clear what is wrong with individual candidates. We, as LDS, need to keep this in mind, and we need to somehow get the State Assembly to start carrying out its tasks. If he has any concerns against anyone, he's bound to report them. We have recently had a problem with the deputies proposed by the Ombudsman, today we have a problem with the person who is supposed to lead the distance of money for the disabled, we have not even received a proposal for a world for broadcasting, etc. What I am finishing is that the National Assembly should not now, by pressing the button, bless the coalition's agreements because it is thereby undermining the reputation of this institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. He's quitting. There are no other applicants to discuss, so I conclude. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia gives its consent to the appointment of mags. Janez Juga for Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia." I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Run, please. You have the floor. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to appoint Director Fih of the South. Mr Jug met all the conditions, was secondly invited to the invitation to tender and secondly proposed to be appointed to the National Assembly. We didn't hear any argument that he couldn't be CEO. He's doing his duty. I agree that, and should be able to do so, when deciding on candidates where all the cities are listed, but not where others propose to do so, the National Assembly must have the opportunity and the duty to tell why it is proposed and why it is not proposed and why we therefore consider it unacceptable and unworthy of the State Assembly to the candidates if, without a single word, without arguments, it does not appoint or appoint someone to a post that has been declared and fulfils the conditions. You know that, not in relation to this point, we have also proposed a debate at the College meeting on the next item of the election committee. I expect that, as you promised at your first next meeting, this debate will be held. However, I express the opportunity to say this disagreement at this point as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Schwagan has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Bajc. No, I'm going to open an application for all those who want to explain their voice. Check-in is on. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I will support the candidacy, because I think that Mr South, as already the perpetrator of his duties, is the FIHO Foundation, which we have heard a number of critical words about in the past, has recently put in place and certainly knows the area that covers it and is supposed to cover it very well. Finally, I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, at the 15th year of our country's 15th anniversary, Mr South received a special thanks from the National Assembly for his participation in the adoption of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that such a person can also be credited by this national assembly by allowing him to perform the function that he actually wants to perform in the field of disability organisations, and he is certainly also a trustworthy person, otherwise we will in fact deny this recognition, which he has received from this congregation for his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, that I will not, as I was on the committee for the mandate and election issues, be characterized as a "spider" by my colleague Školč, because I did not define myself or because I did not justify why I voted with an empty ballot, I say, and I thought that until today you do not have to define yourself when it says "for" or "against" and that it is not necessary to base my vote or decide that I will not support Mr South's candidacy this time. I think he has been doing, for some time now, also successfully, his function and I think it is also time for someone else to take over this foundation, who is likely to be as good as Mr South, or perhaps even better. It's just that I volunteered to tell you what happened at Quiaz and how some of our colleagues are processing and titled us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If someone has been doing his job for some time and has been successful, as we have just heard, then I have thought that this is the reason why such a person should continue to work, especially if those looking for him agree. That is why I believe so much less that there are some serious arguments, other than political ones, to oppose Mr South. Therefore, I do not believe that there are some reasons for not speaking out or for everyone to make a clean decision. Colleagues, the clear conscience is at the same time uniformed and the number of members of the coalition is considered to be accurate on the mandate-holder committee. But here again it will be the same, probably the same - in such a pure conscience it will not be possible to believe. That is, I will say, a truly global uniform that your coalition can patent and export around and also propose to people who are dealing with matters of conscience and morals to study. I think they'll be surprised at how pure conscience can suddenly settle in three parties, all of which, by chance, is abandoned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u102	I don't know what to say, but Mr. Skull, the second time you've gone completely out of line. You didn't explain your voice, you went back into the debate, even earlier in the debate, and I ask you to stick to the agenda. The debate was about the Magi's candidacy. Janez South. You have discussed everything else, and now also an explanation for the vote. I ask Members and Members to know what they are talking about. Anybody else want to talk, any other interest? Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u103	I will vote in favour of the candidacy. And that's for a simple reason, because I can't be against something that other authorities have decided and have legal powers to decide on it. And they have appointed a candidate for Director, who is now v.d. the director of that institution. We give our consent or we are obliged to notify those who have original competence, why we do not give our consent to this candidacy. But it is not by our discretion that we, by our own intimate will, decide whether or not to give this consent. Whether or not we will appoint a director of the South. It's not our role or our jurisdiction. I have not received any rejection of this candidacy, I have not heard any arguments nor on the Commission, which was public, not here today. And that's why I have no choice but to press "yes" in this candidacy. And, of course, I regret that, at this stage, when the call was made, when the choice was made for those who are empowered to do so is that at this stage, when we should only give consent, it is said that they should have another option. After all, no choice was given by the national assembly to this Mr South, because until now, despite having been twice in D.C., he had not given him the opportunity to perform this function. Why? But you say that he probably did well, and that those who are responsible for it decided that he should also perform it in the regular term, not only in the department, but now you say that someone else should have the opportunity. You didn't give it to him once.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Weber. He's quitting. I don't think there's any more interest in explanation. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 34. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and wish you a nice weekend.
