ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Zvonko Černač, Feri Horvat, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Breda Pecan, Aloyz Sok and Franz Sušnik. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - Third defense proposal for the law on the registration of immovable property. I would like to warn you that a total of two hours and 18 minutes are scheduled for this debate. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! With the proposed law, and in particular with the last amendments to the amendment, we wanted to re-emphasize the general importance of the creation of a real estate collection, a real estate register. The fundamental quality of this collection in itself aims at finally establishing a real estate record, which includes all meaningful, quality and useful market data. All other purposes must and will be self-defined if the sectoral rules are to be adopted. On the one hand, the purpose of this Act is to simplify procedures, on the other hand to strengthen the geodetic service, including technical and other measures under official responsibility, and on the other hand, to establish a general register of purposes, which will establish greater transparency in the real estate market and finally also register state immovable property as a whole and the property of local self-government communities. I would just like to point out that this last amendment to Article 103 fully follows this purpose to clearly define, on the one hand, enough general information to be able to complement, in the light of technological developments, over time, and, on the other hand, sufficiently specifically that the executive branch does not have too much discretion in collecting these data. In this way, the first inventory will first establish a record, and later this record will be updated and follow-up to the links of real estate records will finally have a transparent and dynamic real estate market, which is a prerequisite for any space management, so I would like to stress the independent value of this law, the independent value of this register and the independent value of the procedures in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. I give the floor to Ambassador Robert Hrovat to present the position of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In both previous cases, the majority opinion was that the adoption of the real estate registration law was still necessary. In particular, because of a number of unregulated matters that the old law did not define or define in a manner that no longer corresponds to the modern situation in this area. The new Real Estate Registration Act introduces simplifications, additions and amendments that create conditions for more efficient and quality data collection and management of real estate data and, of course, a greater possibility of linking public records. Easily and rapidly accessible data enable better decision-making in planning and design and, above all, provide individuals with a level of safety in real estate transport and in the protection of property rights. In order to introduce a mass property valuation system and provide data for statistical purposes, additional information will be collected for all buildings and parts of buildings, which are listed in the law textually. This data will not only be of one importance but will also be upgraded on the basis of the system, and the proposed registration law also introduces a new public record called the Real Estate Register. It will make it easier to record real estate data. The proposed amendments shall also simplify the procedures for the registration of regulated and amended parcel boundaries in the land disaster in cases where an agreed solution is reached on the ground itself where the process is led by a geodetic undertaking. Simplification of procedures increases the possibility of overcoming existing delays in the field of land cadastral procedures. The draft law gives particular emphasis to ensuring the conditions for obtaining real estate data in today's incomplete records and to improving the quality of existing data. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are confident that the new Real Estate Registration Act will be the first step towards the creation of a single real estate system that will round up real estate rights registration, property value and real estate use in both institutional and accounting terms, so we will definitely support the law, as it is in line with modern international trends and orientations. The provision of multi-purpose real estate data and the creation of a real estate system will provide a basis for the wide use of data for different purposes at country level, local communities, individual owners, as well as other users.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you. Dr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, co-worker of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. I'm not going to repeat the things we said at the second reading. In the LDS, we support the drafting of a new real estate registration law. We have no great problems with the design of this law and with most of the solutions in marriage. After all, we stressed that this is some kind of fundamental substantive law of geodetical activity in the Republic of Slovenia. Regrettably, some of the solutions in this law are instigated by a law that is amended. Of course, I am referring to the new Article 103, which sets out the content of the questionnaire to collect data on real estate. I will not say anything new if I again assure you that in the LDS we believe that the extent of the data that is to be collected is too large for the purposes of this register and, in our opinion, such an article as paragraph 103 today is a serious invasion of privacy. I am sure that you will face the anger and anger of owners who will wonder why it is necessary to know whether the apartment has "wireless" or wireless local network, or why not. As I have seen, the government is proposing an amendment to the amendment of the parliamentary group. I assume you intend to support our amendment that we tabled. We may see during this debate that this article is corrected. If it's fixed properly, we'll support the LDS. If not, of course, if the current solutions remain, we will have to reject the law, which is basically good, because of this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting also on behalf of the Social Democrats at today's session! The real estate registration law states that our client's efforts, which we have already started in the past, are being realized, because we want and realize that real estate records are extremely important for development, both local self-government and countries as a whole. It started in 2000 with the largest real estate project since its independence. Digital plans have been developed, photo-bremetric coverage of all buildings has been carried out, use of orthophotos of plans, and efforts have been very great to remedy backlogs in land books. The importance of real estate, as I said, is extremely important for the development not only of local government and state, but also within the same real estate market, mortgage banking. Today it is noted that this system or package of laws under consideration is largely subordinated to the creation of a new basis for tax collection. And there is also a kind of impression that the greatest importance of these laws that we are considering today is to establish a tax collection system. Clearly, the current government has also come to appreciate that the implementation of the promise is based primarily on tax collection. Of course, it is important that public funds be distributed transparently and in a way that ensures economic growth, new jobs, social security, access to education for all social groups. This is also a vision of the Social Democrats, and we attach great importance to this law. The importance of this law is also that it seeks to simplify procedures, as the geodetic activity, which is key to records, is carried out both by the private and by the public sector. And it has been found that, above all, the administrative scope of the State Geodetic Administration has increased significantly over the last period, and the result is the inefficient operation of both the private and public geodetic sectors. For the procedure for establishing the border is very long, and thus a very large obstacle to responding to the wishes of investors, whom we know time is money. In short, from the decision to invest, this period must be reduced to the shortest possible extent possible, thereby preventing any economic damage. We note that we do not yet have data on the number, type and quality of real estate for the purposes of implementing development strategies. It is therefore necessary to establish multi-purpose records and systems that will allow for the objective design and management of social, spatial and tax policies, which is crucial for the development of the country. This should also take into account regional organisation and, in particular, the establishment of competences and new forms of organisation, with a view to ensuring the technical and technical tasks performed in the regional centres. In doing so, we would like to point out that it is not appropriate to wait for new provinces to be the basis for the distribution of these centres, because we do not have a specific number, let alone the extent of these areas. In doing so, we would like to stress that the spatial development strategy in which we have identified national centres as well as regional centres needs to be taken very seriously today, and some of the regional centres are envisaged in this strategy as one that develops into a future national centre. The Spatial Development Strategy states that the most important public functions are also prioritized in such centres. Certainly one of the most important public functions is real estate management, or the agency that is supposed to manage real estate, and should certainly have its own premises and services in future national centres. But the biggest problem in this law right now, we find, arises in the provision of funds. Because it is clear from the presentation of the law that substantial resources will have to be provided for the establishment of records. We note that 1.5 billion tolars are missing for the implementation of this project, indicating that many things are not yet met within the very implementation of this important law. Here too, by the Social Democrats, the greatest concern, or concern and concern, is that in the short term it will be possible to establish records that, as I have said, are crucial for the future successful and balanced development of the country, regions and, of course, local self-government. We expect the government to provide this missing asset and thus establish the conditions for the registration of real estate to start in an efficient and transparent manner as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. Ambassador Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to Mr State Secretary and colleague Andrei to all Members and Members. The opinion of the Novi Slovenije Group - The Christian People's Party regarding the law on the registration of property at the time of the second reading has not changed anything to date. We are aware that this is a very important law for both our citizens and our country of Slovenia. The law is very important, since it completely regulates most of the activities in the geodetic field, which is also my basic profession. For many years I have applied the old law in my work, and I am very well aware of the shortcomings that this law has, I am thinking mainly of geodetic procedures, which have been very complicated and long-lasting, which was highlighted before me. In addition to simplifying procedures, the new law also provides us with a new record, which is the real estate register as part of its data on dwellings and on permanent or temporary residents in dwellings. The sound functioning of the real estate market or the correct real estate policy can be based only on regulated real estate records and it is therefore very important to systematically record real estate, to renovate, coordinate and upgrade these records. Therefore, it seems very important that the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia has joined the project of updating the recording of properties in the years 2000 to 2005. The basic purpose and purpose of the project was to ensure the establishment of basic real estate and property data and to enable the introduction of new technologies and the informationisation of records to improve and speed up the upgrading of these data for various purposes, in particular the protection of real property rights, the taxation of real estates, the surveillance of the real estate market, support for activities in agriculture, forestry and the management of natural resources and property, support for spatial planning and housing policy and statistical processing, and can also be listed in ecology, geodesy and elsewhere. On the basis of the results achieved by the real estate registration project, it is possible to accelerate the development of more efficient real estate management in Slovenia, which is one of the basis for the more efficient operation of the real estate market, better management of the premises, the management of the related social policy and sustainable development, as well as one of the key components of each country's economic development. Multi-use of real estate data allows for a faster response to environmental changes and ensures more efficient adaptation of products and services by user measure. Guidelines for updating and upgrading real estate management processes can be narrowed down to the following areas: simplifying and combining real estate registration and real rights procedures; unifying and connecting bearer institutions in the area of real estate recording; not forgetting the use of e-business; and ensuring easy and fast access to data. Due to the significant increase in the use and number of users of digital cadastral plans, digital ortho-photo plans, established register data of the cadastral buildings, agricultural land use data and real estate market records, additional efforts will also need to be upgraded and made in the future to regularly maintain, update and link property records on the basis of a system of uniquely defined identifiers. Only with the active and coordinated cooperation of all institutions will effective interconnection and harmonisation of real estate records and other databases be achieved, thus ensuring the level and speed of services expected for users. In order to successfully and effectively manage real estate, it is important to continue coordinated and systematic inter-resort cooperation, as well as to increase the involvement of other users, such as local communities, public companies, not least the private sector, as this enables a more efficient solution to real estate issues, the development of real estate management and more efficient management of real estate policy. And the new real estate registration law follows these very goals. So, in the New Slovenia Group, we will unanimously support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. Ambassador Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representative of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Although I'm not a geodetic expert myself as my predecessor, I'm out there somewhere, so this thing is close to me, because I'm meeting her all the way through my career. For the implementation of its development strategies, the Republic of Slovenia also needs quality and complete real estate data. It is therefore necessary to establish multi-purpose records and systems in the real estate sector that will allow for the objective design and management of social, spatial and, ultimately, tax policies. In Slovenia, activities have been under way for several years to provide complete and quality real estate records for the implementation of these three policies. The success of the proposed professional solutions is also conditioned by the updated regulatory arrangements for acquisition, management and end-use of real estate data. The existing method of compensation for the use of building land should be replaced by a modern real estate tax system, for which the tax base is defined as a market value in principle. This needs to be determined in the same way for all real estates, so it is a prerequisite for this to happen, to introduce a system of mass valuation of real estates; then quality and complete real estate records are necessary for its implementation. The main objective of the new real estate registration law is a quality real estate recording system. The proposal for a law in line with modern international trends and guidelines, as well as recommendations aimed at establishing multi-purpose real estate data and establishing a real estate system, which will be owned and taxed in addition to traditional functions, also provide a basis for the wide use of data for different purposes at country level, local communities, individual owners, investors - I stress to investors and other users. The proposed law simplifies real estate registration procedures to real estate records, provides complete real estate data and allows for gradual improvement of the quality of real estate data, provides up-to-date real estate data and provides the possibility of partial coverage of costs, maintenance and use of real estate data. We support the Government's efforts to address this issue in the Slovenian People's Party, because we believe that the proposal for a new law is the first step towards establishing a single real estate system. The proposed arrangement will simplify the registration process for real estate data. By simplifying the procedures for the registration of new real estates or the modification of already recorded data, the law offers simpler and faster solutions, while still seeking to ensure high legal security for real estate owners. Most of the flats on the floor property are already registered in the cadastral of buildings because of the interest of the owners of the apartments. It is incomplete to cover data on business buildings and single-ownership buildings. In view of the need to establish data on all buildings, the new law also provides for the disclosure of data on buildings and parts of buildings throughout the country. With a single big project, we will create quality data on all the building funds in Slovenia. This fund will then be able to be used directly to determine the value of real estate or to determine a certain more appropriate action in the residential area, as well as to plan interventions more qualitatively. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the law. It will also support the solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an amendment to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! I apologize in advance for my different view of the content of this law, and I ask you if my different view or position can be understood as my constitutional right and as a business right to think differently than the rest of you in this national assembly to that law. It has been repeatedly exposed, as far as this law is concerned, to multifaceted records. If you do, why will all these records be used and how without these records in our country we can't live. I believe in another story, I'm sorry. I have read the Government's strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, these are two large-scale scripts, and I can say with certainty that this law, which is before us today, will, in the third, be definitively considered to be only the necessary instrument for the introduction of property taxes. As part of my previous debate in this National Assembly, I have told you how events will take place by introducing a new law or new tax to which we will be subject in our country in 2007. And that's why I can repeat these same words here at the third reading today. As I estimate that our citizens and citizens do not deserve the emphasis - they do not deserve the new tax in our country, because they are already overtaxed, I will take advantage of these few minutes and actually repeat my words from the second reading of the law. The fact is that the real estate registration law, the law on the mass valuation of real estate that we are now meeting with in April, is the basis for the fact that in September the real estate tax law will come under consideration and that a real estate register will be established in December somehow. Some colleagues before me have told you what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia plans to describe in the context of real estate, whether it makes sense to describe every single thing owned by an individual in our country, or whether there is more behind it. The fact is that through such a wide record as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set itself, it also generates a lot of information that can be obtained, of course, the emphasis is on "may" being used for completely different purposes. I think it's fear. And we have not received an answer to this fear during the second hearing and I do not believe that we will also receive it today by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We all know how much intervention will be needed to manage these records. Today, in one of the central printed media, we have read the required number of people who will perform such interventions, of which they will hire jobless censusers, which is right, of course, is one way to get through it in the short term or for a short time to get through unemployment, but I think it is going somewhere else. The fact is that in January 2007 there will be the implementation of the real estate tax law and that in September 2007, there will be the real consequences of the law before us today; these are the first doses of the property tax. If I link myself to a government strategy for all those who may not have read it, I believe and hope that you Members have taken your work properly enough and read the government's strategy, which we follow with this law, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is planning with this tax, which we today give it a solid foundation, unfortunately to collect over 30 billion Slovenian dollars of the new tax, not to talk about increasing any existing tax, but only a new tax. The fact is that property in our country has already been subject to four taxes on transport, transfer and similar things. The fact is, in the real estate sector, there is also a local community in connection with the fiscal system that can prescribe, and many municipalities in Slovenia are also prescribing a new or fifth so-called tax on the use of building land. I want to tell you that real estate as one of the constitutional categories is already in the existing system, the fiscal system is too burdened, and that there is no point in this law, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shows us, in the more intention of obtaining information records to make it easier for a geodet to work, or that we will get an integral picture of where in our Slovenia there are very large houses or very small houses. This law, which is before us today, is an exclusively fundamental law that will be subject to the application of the new real estate tax law. Therefore, from my point of view, with regard to the conduct of the budget structure of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have a clear picture of how much tax revenue there is, clearly, how much tax revenue there is in the budget's revenue, this will be just a figure that will increase tax revenue. All those who have opened the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can find in less than a minute that more than 92% of all government annual revenues represent taxes, then this 30 billion will only increase this percentage. In other words, we have less than 8% tax revenue, and in this area, we are the only European country with such a very negative trend, with a trend that is rich or that has exclusively a state, a government, a ministry of finance, a national assembly, anyone with the resources derived from taxes. Citizens and citizens in our country are already overly taxed, and I am, of course, surprised by the views expressed so far by the parliamentary groups when they do not pay enough attention to this law or prescribe to it what this law deserves. I would deserve a stronger treatment and, as you know, at one of the previous meetings, it was proposed that a broader discussion be held in connection with these new taxes for 30 billion Slovenian tolars. We do not know today whether this law will constitute a basis for a new tax rate of 2% of the market value of real estate, we do not know, that the information that came from the finance ministries has been recorded in a wide range of media. The Prime Minister answered my question raised at the March meeting in no uncertain terms the basic dilemmas that have been raised, but if we follow the strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, we get a fairly quick answer that the purpose of this meeting is to obtain 30 billion Slovenian tolars, the acquisition of citizens and citizens. For the last time, I have concluded, at the time of the previous examination of the Act, the debate or position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group by reading the financial implications of this Act. And let me just see that I have only one minute and ten seconds to do it this time, by warning you in advance, I will not be able to read at this minute what the financial consequences will be, and now I am not talking about the tax consequences, but only this law. 794 million Slovenian tolars will need to be provided for the information renovation project. The production of data on permanent and temporary residents will require 50 million Slovenian Tolars this year, 25 million Slovenian Tolars in 2007 and 25 million Slovenian Tolars in the following year. Data on buildings and parts of buildings will reflect and stand for over 2000 million Slovenian tolars between 2006 and 2007. The real estate register, which will be needed to establish the register database, will cost us more than 120 million Slovenian tolars in 2006 and more than 120 million Slovenian tolars in 2007 as well as 30 million Slovenian tolars each year. To record actual land use data, we will be in 2000 and, as I have predicted, I am not even half of the financial consequences of this law. Such a law, and I believe that we cannot give our vote in the national party as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much. A nice hello. In the DeSUS Group, we belong to the vast majority that will most likely be supported by this law, with sufficiently justified reasons arising from the need to adopt such a law. We have already supported this law in the procedures prior to the third hearing, and we do not see any particular reason for withdrawing this support, but rather shows it to step up the will of this, because some improvements have occurred, at least in view of the proposed amendments, which I believe will also be accepted and will also receive support from our side. The current situation in this area may sound dramatic, but simply said bad. The data is incomplete, the data is not up-to-date. Their quality is relatively poor, data connectivity is poor, people are upset when they cannot reach them or they need to have too much to do before they achieve what they want, and this is also noted by the applicant in the introduction when he urges us to provide support for this law. Perhaps even someone would think that the topic is somewhat distant, because we are talking about national borders, we are talking about how the borders of local communities, postal thefts, should be recorded. Finally or first, it is necessary to say that it is for us in our everyday life, where, as it were, all owners or tenants of real estate are, as our lives are directly related to them, and, of course, we want to have things arranged in this everyday life. It seems from the technical side that the law brings a number of improvements, but it is not just a technique, so at least we can see that this law has important substantive dimensions. I even think that this is a paradigm shift, and in recent years it has been happening that we will begin to understand differently the ownership of real estate, which, in some ways, has not been optimized in terms of value and prices. It is about starting to understand real estate as not just physical goods, but as something that has value, which takes place on the market, which takes a slightly less tangible form, which requires greater administrative security. This law will also contribute to this. The good thing about the law is, according to our judgment, that those who are owners or tenants also oblige us to contribute to having accurate, accurate, comprehensive and up-to-date records. This is also right, because we are also the ones who are undermining some structure with our legal and other actions, and it is right that we are also helping to establish a real estate market, even with real estate. And it is right that we are committed to establishing such a system, and there is nothing wrong with the assumption of responsibility and sanctions. Multi-purpose seems indisputable to me. Although the adoption of the real estate tax law will be a consequence of all of this, we are today setting up records for everything else, not just for tax purposes. However, if we want to have an corrective tax to replace poor tax collection in the form of compensation for the use of building land, we need to have adequate records, appropriate cadastral records. If the purpose of the law is to be modern, to be technically regulated, to change our attitude to what we are talking about under this law, then we feel that this law can really contribute. And since we feel that it will go forward with respect for and implementation of this law, we can really do better in these matters, we will also support this law in the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a law, to a debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Ambassador Robert Croat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. It is evident that the concept of marriage is somehow agreed upon by all in the grave. Apparently, the only stumbling block is this questionnaire, or real estate register, about which was the largest talk in the second reading. I would like to say that, in my view, it is the intention of the proposer to allow the establishment of a generally accessible collection that will serve interested persons and local communities to obtain information on specific buildings or parts of buildings. The subject of this register, which I suppose will be a lot of talk today, are buildings and parts of buildings, their quality and their characteristics. Therefore, data that are interesting to economic operators and which enable a transparent real estate market - this is the basic purpose of the register. The other purposes of the data being collected must, however, be explicitly foreseen, clearly, in other laws, such as the tax law, statistics and so on. The Law on Mass Valuation will also have to explicitly define the purpose and type of data to be collected. The purpose of the register, in my view, is therefore general and intended for general users, namely, the market and, of course, also for the country and local communities, especially when it comes to properties owned by them. We must be aware that the Republic of Slovenia has not yet had records of its properties, which is, I think, in fact, a unique case in Europe and also a reason for the state's unsupervised behaviour and non-transparent management of state property. At national level, the draft inventory of all properties has never been approached and privatisation has also been completed in this area, I can say, untransparent, precisely because of this. It is true that this is a rather demanding project, which makes sense to obtain a quality and sufficiently wide range of data. This will in some way rationalise the use of budgetary resources. So one collection will be for several purposes, which I think will be extremely important. The state will do this law by carrying out its work, which should have been done long ago. And irrespective of tax or other purposes in the public interest, the completeness of the records is in itself a public interest. Transparency in itself is expected to have positive effects on real estate prices in my opinion. This is very important information. Such a register is only a means for any quality management of space and every public authority is responsible to its citizens and to its companies. It is absurd, however, to claim by some that it interferes with the rights of an individual by means of a register describing the property, irrespective of its user. The state here only allows individuals to determine the actual situation on the real estate market or the actual situation of these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. I give my word to a magician. Milan M. Squill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! Today we are considering legislation that will finally lead us to this, as Mr Shircelj said on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, so that in 2007 Slovenians and Slovenes will start paying the property tax. We can't go blind. The Real Estate Registration Act is the first step towards this, the second step will be at the next item on the agenda. We have also said that if the amendment we have proposed is adopted, we will not oppose the law. However, given everything that has been going on in recent months in the functioning of the executive branch, we are still asking questions, and therefore we have also proposed an amendment that should, however, limit what the government wants to know about individuals. Above all, what is protected by the Constitution is the inviolability of dwellings. However, if I am going to this law and in connection with this law with the law on the mass valuation of property, it is still necessary to say that, on the basis of the census, the Geodetic Authority will update the land cadaster and that we will reach the register of property and that this will be the basis for the mass valuation of property. What is not known is, of course, direct consequences for an individual citizen, an individual citizen. And that's what this marriage has to say. The law is the first step, today we will take another step in another law, otherwise the second ministry proposes it without knowing, except from the outline of what is supposed to be the basis of the partnership for development, how we will pay the property tax in Slovenia. Gentlemen from the ruling coalition, and in part those who have now signed this partnership for development, you have said in fact that you support the framework of economic reforms. In this context, economic reforms say that the taxation of Slovenia and the Slovenians through property taxation is expected to increase by 30 billion. Here the Slovenian government is now performing in the classical technocrat spirit, it is necessary to collect all the data in order to include everything, so that we will then choose no method for assessing the value of real estate and I have a feeling that we do not understand that the rule is only one in real estate, and this rule has nothing to do with whether there is a television or a computer network in this apartment, but this simple rule only has one message: location, location, location. If the Slovenian government knew this, then you could find that it needs much less data, our amendment is going in this direction. Much less information, a matter called a real estate register, and perhaps we would want people in their locations to have as much of their own wealth without the government, technocrats, geodetic administration, anyone who needs to know what's in these apartments. And on the one hand, the Prime Minister does not allow himself to be devoted to his government premises. This law actually gives us a law that will describe the real estate censusers as if every hole in our apartment or in a house that we built in one way or another. This marriage is whatever it is that's looking at it. If he sees him benevolently, then it is a law that will allow technocrats in particular to deal properly with individual property. But if anyone wanted to abuse him, this law would allow for a great deal of abuse. Above all, this information does not need to be properly taxed. How you intend to tax it, you do not say it either in this law or in the law on the mass valuation of real estate, because you say that there is no real estate tax law. That is why today's ruling coalition will be blindly, with the belief that the government is benevolent, this law has confirmed and I believe that it will also confirm the law on the mass valuation of property. Slovenia and Slovenia will only start to wonder what we actually adopted in April 2006 in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Willy Trofenic. He's not here. There's a MEP with a word. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! If we consider certain details that can corrupt this good purpose, then there is much to dispute about this law at principle level, but there will probably be a lot of harsh words on those matters that will be carried out by this law. Therefore, in many ways, I could join my fellow Member's debate with my colleague Milan Cvikel, and I am very close to the reflection presented by Mr Peče at the presentation of the Slovenian National Party's Group. We have no guarantee, as Murphy's law says, that something might not happen under the blackest scenario. Today it means jumping into water that we don't know how deep it is. Whether we will be able to swim in this water, or at least a large majority of citizens, we will not know until 2007. I also object to this that, in order to introduce a new tax that will fill the budget so that we will not have to save when buying tanks and helicopters, we will provide mainly money from this area for these purposes. I am not sure that a country that controls us in all areas of everyday life - from tolls, ATMs, banks, public spaces and elsewhere, if it is really necessary to enter our apartments in this way, because the value and base from which we will be taxed can also be obtained in other ways. The location alone is not that, at least the size and purpose of the surface combined with the location and age of this property gives us a better base and therefore we and the censusers will not have to contact the apartments, the bedrooms, the basements and watch what has accumulated on the dust under the bed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Mitja Slavinz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nor will I touch the content that follows this law, i.e. taxation, and also my thoughts, in particular with regard to Article 103, will I attach myself to the Orwellian fear that we can feel with a large brother, who in this way would be left in our apartments, but I will touch on purely practical reasons why I feel it is unnecessary to provide so much data in registering real estate for later valuation purposes. It is therefore a matter of obtaining the data that we will need to assess closely, I stress that each assessment is the approximate value of some good, in this case housing or real estate in general, in order to approximate these values. This makes it completely unnecessary for me to mention all these details, much more so, because some are not of a real estate nature, we can take them out today, or we can bring them in and mount them tomorrow. In this context, I support the amendment tabled and follow that we reduce the number of data required in this record sheet and really limit ourselves to those who have a significant impact on the value of real estate and are essential to ensure that we get the right picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Paul Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would now like to highlight two or three things in particular. Firstly, it is clear that I am looking at the real estate registration law more broadly than just from the point of view of future such or other tax legislation in the area of property taxation. This law, as it is, offers and provides information infrastructure for property taxation, but in no way and to no extent determines the direction in which the future real estate tax law will go. We do not know what kind of law the government will bring us, we hear some strange stories, we might say, I agree, interesting, but they are not bound to the definition and definitions of this law. What remains to be said is that, differently from the law that we will be considering, the law on the mass valuation of real estate is linked to the direction in which the property tax law is directed, but on this at the future point of the agenda. I would say that it is precisely those who point out that the property records in Slovenia are relatively irregular and that this fact must also be linked to how properties were treated during socialism, when they had another function, a different character and when it was not so important to whom this property belongs and so on. At the same time, I would also say that Slovenian real estate records, such as they are today, are not as unregulated as some think, and that Slovenian geodesy, but not only geodesy, but also others who manage the database by municipalities and elsewhere, which are worthy of the real estate databases, which are not connected and some of these collections have nothing to be ashamed of, compared with the databases of some other countries that have had capitalism for a long time and have been able to value real estates for a long time. Thus the Slovenian policy of the past period, as well as the Slovenian geodetic professions, is relatively developed and relatively good, and the fact is that this establishment of a real estate register as a multi-purpose database where all the attributes of a particular property and land are collected on the basis of geodetic data, that it is a good path and the right path and somehow a logical consequence of all that we have. From this point of view, as it is said, there is nothing to be seen about the law, nor can it be seen from this point of view that, clearly, the implementation of the previous law has shown where there have been any shortcomings, where better ways have been made, and also from this point of view, we hope so, believe those who are doing so to be better and that the law will bring some progress. I'm not going to talk about the amendments myself, because I'm counting on the debate on the amendments to be a little bit later, and I just want to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I am convinced that the law that we are talking about today is good, especially here convinced me by a colleague from New Slovenia who, by profession, is a geodet and used this law in his work, not this law, but the previous one, and I believe that he knows the differences between the previous and the present law and I am beautiful, Mr. Squeakle, allow me, now I have the word. Thank you very much. I am very surprised by the amendment of our LDS colleagues to replace Article 103, paragraph 5. Well, this fifth paragraph would still understand why, but all the good that they intend to do with the fifth, and then we don't understand why they want to delete, namely, the deletion of the text "and for the mass valuation of real estate." Here I find that all the rationality of their proposal fades, and I find the proposal completely inappropriate and also unconstructive. Establishing records - indeed, the records were, Mr Gantar, as once responsible for these things, also admits that they were not good, that it was necessary to reward records, that much effort, time and end money would be put in. I am sure that we will finally get a regulated system, a regulated record that should already be, and I would be very happy not to deal with it after fifteen years, but to start dealing with it in 1993, 1994, when it was really time for these things. As I know, we were also invited from Europe to settle these things, but we are not. Such a view that such a situation speaks of the fact that systemic matters were not resolved was partial and that the names of those who, after permission, put property across Slovenia could be heard interestingly. Today, of course, those who failed, did not know, or did not want to, suggest that we do not add to the regulated real estate register any information on how valuable the property is, so that we can get additional quality or quality, that is to say that we can compare property with each other and thus get even better data or even better records of all properties. See, all companies must have a record of their real estate, but not only do they have a real estate record, but the mandatory records are also evaluated. Thus, I think it is also right that we have, at the level of the State, an overall review of how many individuals, citizens of these records, and also clearly how valuable this property is, with a view to comparing each other. To compare individuals as much as they have that value. And I don't see any problem here. It is true that we will probably continue to experience that value or real estate, that some kind of tax base, but I think it is quite right that instead of the tax that we have now considered to be unbuilt and built building land, we introduce a much more correct and correct base for replacing such a tax. This is a tax exchange we're already paying. Do not say that this is an additional tax, as this matter is spreading here today through Parliament and also on the Commission. That's not true. It's a trade. And I think it's absolutely right and correct that those who have more real estate, those who give these properties, market and illegally market them - most of these things are so made that they are illegally marketed - that we do not have a review that they are paying more taxes than those who use it for their own purposes, for the purposes of everyday life, for the purposes of their neighbors and for their stay. I am confident that this law will make it possible to provide the right, proper basis for all the records that will come out of this. And I'm sure we'll support this marriage in our client. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. Two replicas of the performance of colleague Veršnik. I think the first one to sign up for the replica was my friend Squeakle. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u30	Look, because the gentleman who spoke before me, I'm not going to mention him in vain, of course, he said that's exactly the problem of this marriage. Mr. Geodet doesn't need information in this room about whether there are atriums on some plot or a swimming pool, he doesn't need that data. Mr. Geodet goes around this lot and just slits her throat. The market, of course, says, depending on the location and, if you want, some basic data, how valuable this property is. But if you need information about what it says here, the computer network, the computer network, and I don't know what else. Well, that's what you need to operate on this data. And the gentleman you spoke to before me, that's exactly why I say this is the law, the law written by technocrats, but it will be abused by the authorities. And that is why Mr Geodet in this Chamber knows well that not all the information that the government has by the way brought into this law in the third reading with a page and a half list of things to be asked. For what purpose? Only for this purpose that we as - as we used to have some commissions for the inventory of property and then we published it by local communities - now this will be done by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the law and tax money will be used for political accounting with individuals! Then I don't know why the constitution says the apartment is untouchable. And we're talking about these issues here, so I replicated because, as we'll see later on in the law on the mass valuation of real estate; and that's why I have to replicate that. Sir, in measure 6, the first report of 6 October 2005 on the framework of economic social reforms says nicely, "when the real estate tax is introduced, fiscal revenues will increase by 30 billion." Increase by 30 billion! These are the facts, these are the papers. As Mr Janša said on Tuesday, this development partnership will make it easier to implement the framework for economic reforms. I believe it will be extremely difficult in this national council to accept a property tax, but I suppose you are the one who signed the development partnership. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u31	Comrade Squeakle, three minutes is a replica. Thank you. Dr. Gantar signed up for the replica. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u32	I'm going to replicate to Mr. Veršnik, my colleague, because a replica of the replica is not possible, so I can freely mention it. I would only tell him to look at the amendment to the LDS 103 amendment under the bill sent by the Government on 20.4. and to correct this amendment, and ask again what it is talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. We continue the debate. I give my word to Mr. Jank Webra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u34	Well, registering real estate is certainly a very important process, which data are needed in order to ensure that the records are accurate, are certainly also one of the important issues, but of course the dilemma is opening up here, whether it helps to clarify a very large number of detailed data or is needed for the data that we will then really need in the process that will relate to the valuation of each property. Thus, when we try to define whether there is a need to attribute and take into account what the key is, whether it is a mirror, or whether it is a tile, or whether it is an element, electricity and similarly embedded in an object, we forget that on the other hand we have a very large problem in registering property, especially with those properties owned by the State and managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have not been able to establish since 1993 that there are no accurate records of how many agricultural land and forest owners and management. This is the fact that the Fund has 108 000 hectares and 166 hectares of land in the management and management of the Fund. In short, the extremely large assets that do not have accurate records, so it seems to me that it would be better for us to try to focus in this recording debate on the real problems that then bring the appropriate solutions, and one of them is sure that we are also trying to determine how we are going to do everything with these registration procedures so that we know what the masters of the country and how the state manages then the local community with their property and then also to establish a private property record, which has also received a very large number of owners in denationalisation processes that have been transparent or have not been transparent, and above all, the issue has always been the value of these returning properties. And I think that in all of these procedures we should have more information about what we can extract from these records and whether we will in particular address those issues and the uncertainties that have arisen as a constant in these processes that I have mentioned in these years of Slovenia's independence. Every year we talk a lot about these problems, and to this day we have not solved them. Thus, whether there is more information or not in buildings owned by private owners and similar natural persons, we must also be aware that some information that will not be transmitted will then be able to prosecute, punish and so on. This is also where this assessment is lacking, where the limit is that these data will really be such that they can also be monitored in an appropriate way, otherwise all of these discussions and the solutions we are looking for will in fact be irrelevant. I myself tend to see that less data is needed to record, but that these are indeed the data that are essential for the valuation of real estate, which will then be important for other laws to achieve the desired objectives. That is why I have already supported the amendment proposed by the LDS in the second reading, so that I also think it is appropriate to consider whether we have less data, or whether we have more quality data, or less quality data. So this amendment, I think it solves this dilemma a little bit, not entirely, but a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. Member Drago Koren has been declared. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u36	I have to say hello to my colleague and my colleagues on the balcony first. I don't know if I missed them before. I didn't look at the balcony and I'm sorry I didn't say hello earlier. I will begin my debate first with the compliments of Dr Gantar, who had before me, because I think it was very correct, and I am glad that Mr Gantar has said these things and that he has given recognition to the geodesic profession, because I think or feel that the geodesic profession has sometimes been quite neglected. It is true that the country still does not have the appropriate and regulated records it needs. When I was employed in 1986, the geodesic administration had a land cadaster, had a register of territorial units, and a record of house numbers, and a collective cadaver of utility devices that we took over from utilities, and that was all. No wonder we only had this information because the state system was what it was. We know that all the cities, the lands, were nationalized, that we had social property, where people were only holders of the right to use. If I can only explain how it was about ownership - the use of buildings was so. The natural person may have owned the apartment building, but he was not the owner of the land on which the apartment building was built. The change in this system has given the property a completely different place and the need for new and additional records is certainly very large. As I said before, the geodetic board approached to update these records it had, because I also have to point out that all the records were analogous, that this was all on paper and the processing of these records was difficult and the maintenance was very difficult and also there was no transparency. When we were able to produce digital cadastral plans, it is said that we have moved classical plans into digital form, we have also found how the differences between individual cadastral municipalities, how parts of land overlap or remain between areas that are not covered by the earth disaster, and in all these years the Geodetic Administration has been able to improve this data to the extent possible. I think that we are in a state where the data of the Earth's cadastral can no longer be improved, except with the new measurements that this law, which we are considering today, is bringing again, which I think is very important. Of course, we need, in addition to these records, which we have already had, including new records, the real estate market itself and the possible taxation of these properties, so it is very important that these data are true and quality. I agree with Mr Webro that it is important or must say that we cannot weigh between quality and quantity of data. For certain things it is important that the data is quality, for the second thing it is very important that we have all the data we need. All data, including for possible taxation to be fair and correct. That seems very important to me. If we do not have adequate and correct records, there may be a tax which will be very, very criminal. That is why I give this data and this number of data a great deal of weight. Here I marked with three calls, as Mr Squeakl said, that all the information we need must be collected and perhaps more information than is necessary. In this case, we will not have a headache from the excess, but we may have a headache very quickly, a little differently from alcohol consumption. Once again, I believe that the law is very good that all the data that will be collected under this law will certainly serve to ensure that the real estate market and thus the citizens themselves benefit from the fact that what has happened in the past will not happen, that someone has sold their property twice or three times and thus damaged another, is said to the buyer, or that the investor has sold inadequacy, poorly built apartments, that the problems of land acquisition and ownership were, and so on, not to mention. So much for now. But I'll discuss the amendment myself later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you. The replica was reported to a colleague of Squeakle's. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u38	However, I would like to remind the honourable fellow Member, Mr Koren, of the geodet: the country is gathering what is absolutely necessary. The state doesn't need to collect to keep one of the excesses out of headaches, like you said. Let the country collect only the information it needs. And, Mr. Geodet, I can tell you that it doesn't even matter what's on the location, it's important where the location is, for taxation. You probably don't believe economists, but that's the real estate practice of the last 150, 200 or 300 years. [[Ad in the background.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u39	Peace in the hall, please! The word is only from my colleague, Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u40	So now that you're just going to collect some data, because there's nothing wrong with collecting them, then I have to tell you that you're working against the Public Finance Act, which says that we should spend as much public money as we need to, nothing more. Because there's no reason that you don't know what research needs, how many Slovenians have ventilation devices, on the geodetic board collect data on this, because then you still have to collect information about whether windows open completely or only in half and more. And I'd like to ask you not to exaggerate. With the new text of Article 103, the government has, in our opinion, exaggerated. Or they are intended at the back when some previous debaters have been telling them that you would abuse this information. But the state budget and public finances must not be designed to spend money on something that the government would abuse. This power, of course, cannot be given to you in law and legislation, so we have drawn up an amendment limiting the matter to what is strictly necessary, and we have separated this property registration law and said that, of course, in the law on the possible valuation of property dependency on taxes and circles, and I do not know what else will affect the final value of the property, there will be a tax. So, Mr. Koren, we both know that it doesn't matter what kind of pool you have in your house at Lokovica, but the house in Lokovica is just a short distance from the vicinity of the Chestnut thermal power plant and it has a lower price for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u41	Comrade Squeakle, time for replica is three minutes. Please. Thank you. We have concluded our debate on the proposal for a law on the whole or the whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the amendment review of 20.4.2006 with regard to Article 103. We have an amendment from the Liberal Democracy Group and an amendment to the amendment. The correction was due to the legal and technical arrangements proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I open the debate on Article 103. Comrade Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We see that the LDS Group has been amended by the government with its amendment, which I believe is justified in assuming that it is likely that it intends to support this amendment and then also to amend it. I would say this in particular, once again: when it comes to questions and data collection. These are really sensitive things. For the first time, this current proposal of Article 103, in our view, is indeed inadequate. First of all, because we need to know why we're collecting certain data. There's no way to collect certain data in stock if your head doesn't ache from too much data. This is unprofessional, unethical and I must say that I do not believe that geodesists have in their professional designs, which are different, a rule than knowing why they are collecting certain data, and that they are not just collecting data in stock. I don't believe that geodesists have a different methodology and professional belief than other professions, like mine, which deals with data collection. That's the first thing. Second thing. The collection of data for registers is the collection of individual data on individual buildings or real estates and the purpose of this register is because it is a public book to obtain data on an individual object, as opposed to a statistical collection that collects individual data and is only allowed to be displayed in aggregate states. It is therefore understandable that statistics can collect whether you have an internet connection at home, and it says that 50% of Slovenian households are connected to the Internet, but from this data statistics should not tell you that your particular apartment or household is connected to the Internet. This is a big difference and this difference needs to be taken into account. At the same time, article 103, as read today, as well as some amendments to the LDS amendments, is in fact a great deal of distrust of the land book. You're collecting data that you should actually get through the link between a disaster or a real estate register after a new and land book. And that's the expression of mistrust in the land book. And I must frankly admit that I also understand this mistrust to a certain extent in spaces, surveyors to a certain extent. However, this is a lack of confidence in the earth’s book, for you are also gathering information that you should receive from the earth’s book. As far as our amendment is concerned, we have reduced to a certain extent, in our view, the extent to which we ourselves have been more expansive than less, in fact, we have not been so restrictive, especially for the reason that we consider the real estate register to be such a useful device or useful institution, not for the taxation of real estate, but for the market and the transport of real estate, environmental policy and similar matters, for this reason. And if I say a few more words to the amendment to the amendment. I would say, above all, that it is possible to accept or personally have no objection, as I have pointed out in the club, those matters relating to the objective properties of the building, such as the floor area, the useful surface and the like, but that the number of rooms is very questionable only for the performance of the activity. No, of course not, the number of dormitory rooms in a modern apartment is a data that is soft and cannot be correctly defined. Is there a room in my apartment where there is a computer, a desk, an exclusive room with a professor or a self-sustaining researcher or not? Will you then charge him and tax him as a income - generation room or a simple residential area? These things are unnecessary and pointless. And today it's one place, tomorrow it'll be gone, because, say, a new family member came, and they had to change things. That's soft data. A party with this soft information, if you ask me! True, it's not such a harsh thing or anything, but unnecessary. The administrator of the state local property - again, we can gather this data elsewhere. Go there and ask these people about who his manager is! Maybe he doesn't even know who he is. We are still saying today that the manager of the apartment in Ljubljana is a residential community, which is long gone and so on. Therefore, it seems to me that this questionnaire is burdened with soft data, meaningless. However, as I say, my position, I believe that the position of the House Club is that we will not oppose this amendment. It is also important to adapt this article to the uniform classification of buildings, it is said, to share only residential, non-residential, and not more residential, commercial, industrial, because this is a senseless division, as you know, so meaningful. And it is important that this last paragraph is also drawn, where the colleague has also circumscribed that this is also intended for the mass valuation of real estate, where it is clear that the real estate register has, among other things, the purpose of the mass valuation of real estate. So it's meaningful and useful. We will not, in fact, oppose this amendment, even though we have doubts. We'll support, of course, our amendment, and then we'll see how this thing ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss it under Article 103? Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I think that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself, when it went to form an amendment to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, admitted that in this article 103., 104. with such a broad questionnaire in our opinion, it simply went too far. I don't know why this happened between second and third reading and why the government wanted it. What is crucial and what has been said is, of course, this question, which is still in this government amendment, the so-called number of rooms solely for the conduct of an activity which, in my opinion, has no relation to the real estate register, and what we have said in the end, our amendment that we believe that this register or this real estate data should really be used only for the purposes and establishment and management of the register, but not for the mass valuation of real estate. I simply say this because, as we will see later, under such an undefined law on the mass valuation of property and, in fact, the unknown real estate tax law, it is the power of the government or to allow the use of this data to be used, in our opinion, a major abuse, although some have previously said that nothing is wrong if the government collects all this data. So, the government itself has admitted that it does not need all this data because it has joined our amendment, but has extended it somewhat, and the government has somehow, perhaps because the Minister of Finance, who is currently traveling over, is already in America, and the Minister of Environment and Space, has not yet harmonised. So it might be good, Mr President, to hear the government, or both government representatives, whether this sixth paragraph is really necessary and in fact I do not know why it is necessary to know the number of rooms exclusively for the purpose of carrying out activities for the purpose of mass property valuation. Madam from the Ministry of Finance is nodding, I believe "fine" would still be heard for the record.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you. In order to present the government's position at the meeting of the National Assembly, three government representatives have been accredited or declared, and only four have the right, I apologize, to answer the questions raised. I am, of course, obliged to ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, who else wants a word. If they apply by then, of course, they get it, so for the third time, I ask who else wants a word under Article 103 of the Act. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. The apartment is completely untouchable and this law does not interfere in any way with the inviolability of the apartment. This is an entirely inadequate way of looking at the issues of the creation of records. All the data collected on the basis of this in this register is already being collected and we are obliged to provide them when we apply for a cadastral, for the establishment of a cadastral building. In short, even today, when we are obliged as owners of real estate to transmit data to a cadastral, a large part of this data, additional data here is only a specification of certain more general data, which by their content are exclusively related to real estate. I would point out once again: the register is not a database of personal data, the real estate register has no relation to personal data, there are certain data in the individual register that are linked to a person, but you can link the real estate register in such a way that it could compromise the protection of personal data, it is technically impossible and by modern techniques you cannot and cannot do so. Any abuse in terms of the protection of the personal data of the registry as such is impossible, at the same time absolutely unacceptable, because we have regulated the area of personal data protection under the directives governing this issue two years ago. Thus, the questionnaire or census that will take place will collect data from real estate managers, not necessarily from owners, and the data that the owner already owes to the office for the role of the cadastral building today. This marriage obligation already exists for us. We practically, in particular, by this amendment, which further limits the purpose of this register to registration purposes and all other purposes, including statistics, including the purpose of mass evaluation, must be explicitly provided for in the second law and, at the same time, the quality and manner of verifying the data obtained from this register must be specifically regulated in other laws. Thus we have followed the full comparative practice in this area, the protection of personal data is ensured by this register and the main objective is the record, in itself, which we have already discussed today. So afraid that the register of links between different registers may be misused, it is justified if they did not have legal infrastructure to prevent it. The way in which different collections are linked is strictly limited and clearly defined under what legal conditions is permissible. Thus, the inviolability of housing and the protection of personal data is a value which is also fully protected by this law. I would like to, and the Government's amendment to the amendment is, above all, not as restrictive in relation to the previous 103rd article as it is mainly explanatory in terms of the generality of the data that can be collected in a uniform manner. Article 103 of the preceding article went into extraordinary detail, which, by changing technology, might actually be unnecessary or would not have achieved their purpose. With this amendment to the 103rd Article, this generality and at the same time sufficient specificity shall be applied. And in some ways it was an opportunity that we had already taken time together on the committee to prepare this article as accurately as possible, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Once again, I would stress that the apartment is completely untouchable and that the register will not affect any of the human rights protected by our Constitution and European practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thanks for the explanation. Mr Drago Koren took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u48	Many of the things I was going to stress right now have already been said before me by the Secretary of State. First, I have to make amends because I was obviously misunderstood. I didn't want to say before that we're collecting a lot of data with this law, but it was just an explanation of this amendment. I claim that, with this amendment and the government amendment to this amendment, we guarantee the minimum necessary. I even think that there may be some other way to add to it that we can have these records complete and that we can serve all the purposes for which we set them up. As far as the abuse of this data by the government is concerned, I say that this matter is legally settled, it is said that abuse is not permitted. But if someone's abusing things, he knows, but he needs to be replaced. And in the elections, that's what happens sooner or later. If I define myself as to the amendment of the government. What the government is now proposing to complement with this data seems to me to be the data that is urgently needed. And if we didn't collect this data, I would argue that they would be, I would say, like a crippled person who doesn't have hands on his hand, which has a hard leg, which means he's working hard, doing everything that a normal person can do otherwise. Data, such as the type of building that replaces a one-bedroom building, seems to me to be self-involved and logical. These types of buildings, such as a separate house, twin, then say a row house, an orderly house at the end of a species or in the middle of a species, all of this information is important. Net floor area, usable area and so on, surface area for real use, I think all of these data are very important. And if I continue, there shall be a place in the building: it shall not matter whether this place is in the cellar, whether it is in the mansard, whether it is on the floor, or on the sixteenth floor. And if I say one more word about the number of rooms exclusively for the conduct of the activity. This information also seems very important to me personally. Indeed, there is a huge activity of existence that can be used peacefully in an apartment, but I say, for the owner of an apartment there is a difference if it has such an apartment so that, say, three rooms can give up for some activity, and this may be a monetary very profitable activity, and to this account it creates one super income. Perhaps even if a parcel of borders is important for a surveyor, it doesn't matter what's up and where it is, and I just can't agree with that, and I don't think there's a person who can agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you. I give my word to Dr. Gantar. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u50	I would only briefly say that I am glad that the Secretary of State has accepted the core of this argument, but it is not about who won, who did not win, or who is more right or who is less right. The fact is, however, that the Government has found that this current Article 103 is too detailed to give rise to a variety of forms of use of this data, which would not be in line with certain general principles in this society, although it is here, I would say, a choice of words. At the same time, however, unlike my fellow Member, Mr Koren, I think we could not add, but let something go. I think that we should mainly release those so-called soft data, which are independent of physical and permanent, relatively permanent attributes of buildings and buildings, distinguish and relate directly to human activity. What you mentioned, that is, the use of premises, of business spaces, to give an example, here I explained it, some lady can sew flags. Does he sew them in the kitchen? How do you define that now? Today we sew them for a craftsman, tomorrow she won't sew them again, these are the cases, they happen. Will this kitchen with this lady who deserves an extra toll, that is very cheap, sewing flags, national symbol and work is very little appreciated in these flags, or will you account for it as a business space and say that she is doing a profitable activity, or not? Or is someone who writes an article in his work room paid; or is it a profitable activity and so on? This should not concern the recording of real estate, it is information interesting for sociologists, work at home and all these stories, premises, family functions, for sociologists, yes, for those dealing with real estate and property taxes, this should not be an interesting information. And I hope there won't be any interesting information either, but if there is, we're going to fight hard on the property tax, which is what I'm going to say. And once again, what my colleague Squeakle was talking about, about the house and the pool, is a problem. In fact, this real estate register, we have found on the board, as defined by real estate, will not be able to say and find that in the case of some house, which can be quite common, a very luxurious pool, which would make sense to tax it, I would say this excisively, as it is called, as a very luxurious property. This on the basis of the so-called real estate register, we have found, will not be taxable and will need to have other data. Thus these things are not all solved, so do not think that this marriage has now solved all the dilemmas and all the possible situations that arise. We know that the laws that regulate these things - and they will never - and in a year or earlier, they would ask where and how to fix them. Be modest in your assessments and perhaps some past activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. So I have to react to the implementation of Mr Starman, the Secretary of State, who claimed here that the main objective of this 103 article is just a record in itself, which I am very concerned about. Today in the democratic world, all records must be obtained in a way that is very restrictive. And data collection, of course, is a very dangerous thing to do. To say here that there is no link between these records or the data contained in this questionnaire and the possible inviolability of the apartment or the interference with privacy, I must say that this does not convince me of anything; it does not convince me that this information will be collected in this questionnaire, but, of course, it is also clear who owns this apartment. The question is, for example, whether the tenant is really the one who is supposed to provide such real estate information and, of course, is not the owner. That's a question, too. This seems to me to be a kind of threat to the inviolability of the apartment and to the interference with privacy, especially if this Article 103 is read in conjunction with Article 129, which speaks of the offence being punishable by the owner, user or tenant with a fine of 100 000 to 600 000 tonnes, if this questionnaire does not meet the correct and complete data on real estate. How, then, if you are not interested in going to visit this apartment, it is said that you would actually intervene in the inviolability of the apartment, resort to the inviolability of privacy, how you will find that this data was not correct and complete and will then punish the person who is obliged to report this information in this relationship with this fine. Things are not that simple, and so I would say, even one first assessment is that this article 103 is questionable from a constitutional point of view. At least I would hope to say that there are not enough convincing arguments that claim that there is nothing wrong with this article constitutionally, because you cannot say that this is a collection or creation of a record on your own. Only certain records or particular data may be collected by the State through law for a strictly defined purpose. And here it's not quite clear, I would hope to argue this at first sight. As far as I am concerned, I am sure that this amendment, which was tabled by the LDS Group of Members, is not restrictive enough, and for me personally, this amendment, I must say here, is not acceptable. But with us, it was written by those colleagues who are more involved in this geodetic, environmental, and I don't know what other problems. But when I look at this amendment in terms of protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms and preventing the abuse of these freedoms and rights, I must say that I have some doubts about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. Secretary of State Starman applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u54	I would just like to say that this is a series of offences for which under the general rules of our criminal law no house investigation is admissible. We well know that for a violation of whether the questionnaire has been correctly completed or not, and this is true for any offence, the instruments provided for in the criminal procedure are totally inadmissible. Thus, the practical system, which is designed only to facilitate people with this first census, has to provide the data they need to do in one way or another and should do so in other different forms of record-keeping that are currently being maintained. And there can be no interference with privacy in this case. Of course, we are aware, and I stress this once again, not that the register itself is intended, but that the register has a public interest in itself. Property records, which are not necessarily linked to the owner, are recorded on the property at all. This is just one of the data, it's not an indication of how much property an individual has, it's, say, personal data, how much property is worth from a specific individual. We are talking about general records, such as a land register, such as others, no less important records. And the goal is to have a transparent picture of what properties we have. However, any sanctions in this regard are, of course, subject to all the cathels that our legal and constitutional order provides. And we know that in no case can anyone go through the apartment for a misdemeanor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u56	Well, now I'm a little more concerned. Concerned in particular in this sense when a representative of the State tells me how he actually wants to make it easier for me to share my information or information regarding my property, which I would have to provide somewhere across different departments, let's say, then, of course, my concern is even greater. For this is precisely the case, the state should not collect data in this way, for the first time, those who do not need them, secondly, so that it can cross them with one another and use them for a third purpose. And the fact is there is concern about the third purpose; no one can convince me not to. In fact, this is what the Secretary of State said in some way. That is why I say only that, I do not think this Article 103 is appropriate, even if the amendment of the LDS Group is adopted, and I expect problems with the implementation of this Article 103. I expect because I am confident that there will be someone who will also enforce the fact that this can be disputed in terms of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. This concludes the debate in conjunction with Article 103 and the amendment and the amendment. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda or at the latest at 17.40 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on the multiple value of real estate. I would like to inform you that three hours of debate is foreseen for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr President! Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly present a proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property, namely this bill was created on the basis of a development project that took several years to achieve a more efficient system through mass valuation of property, and of course we can use this system for various purposes. These purposes are certainly tax purposes, in addition to the mass valuation of real estates, these results can also be used in regulating space, statistical analyses, determining the value of assets for the determination of social rights, mortgage banking systems and so on. The real estate mass valuation system will be made public and will be useful for various business and private purposes as well. In doing so, I would like to point out that this law does not introduce property taxation. This law does not provide for the obligation to pay the property tax, does not set the rate of the property tax, nor does it provide for any exemptions or reliefs. This law lays down the general market value that can be used in the tax procedure, of course, while each taxpayer will have all the possibilities of comments, complaints and so on, in short, in order to achieve proper taxation. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate provides that all real estates that will be recorded in the Register will be valued. In other words, this means that all the land as well as buildings and parts of buildings that form part of this property will be valued. How will they be valued? They will be valued according to their intended use. This applies to empty land as defined in the spatial plans, buildings will be valued according to actual use, and parts of buildings will also be valued. The owner of the property will receive information on this. The objective of mass valuation of real estate is similar to that of individual valuation or valuation of real estates, in order to obtain the most realistic estimate of the market value referred to by law as the general market value. Certainly, the bill allows for a more effective way of evaluating, especially compared to the current system. The current system values real estate in different ways. Thus, for example, the current law, the current taxation are subject to points and are entirely responsible for assessing the value of real estate. What approach will be used to assess a particular property individually depends on the data available for each property. The law therefore sets out three types of approaches or three methods, namely a comparative market approach, which is mainly intended for the evaluation of dwellings. Then we have a cost approach. Of course, if we do not have sufficient information on how valuable the fixed property is on the market, the cost approach or the income approach can be used. This is essentially based on income that can be expected for individual real estate, for example that these are rentals. According to this data, properties will be distributed. The mass evaluation system will analyse available market data, price data, rents, replacement costs using appropriate statistical and analytical methods. The location, surface area, age, maintenance of the property will also be taken into account on this basis. These data will be the basis for the design of certain models of mass property valuation. And in fact, the country will be divided into individual value zones based on these models. The mass valuation process itself is based on two methods, the General Property Assessment Procedure and the Valuation Procedure. This seeks to achieve as real a property as possible, as I have already mentioned, which will be used for various purposes. In addition, I would like to point out that the municipalities will play an important role in mass valuation, as well as later in determining the value and individual factors that determine the value of real estate. The procedure will be carried out by means of an experimental calculation of the value. On this basis, property owners will receive an assessment or will receive a notice of their value. Of course, they will have the opportunity to object to this value and that an individual zone or individual value can change. In other words, this law will be coordinated as much as possible with the congregations as possible and also with professional institutions. In view of the fact that real estate owners are also included in this law by actually participating in real estate valuation models, the law ensures transparency and transparency and also certain controls. The model verification procedure will be carried out for individual real estates at least every four years, even more frequently. Accordingly, individual values will also be valorised. The implementation of the mass evaluation system will be entrusted to the public service within the framework of the geodetic administration. Evaluation operators will have to have some education and also some knowledge. In fact, there will also be new employment on this basis, or 36 new jobs are foreseen here, and on the other hand, we need to see that there will be less work at the level of the municipalities. The municipalities will no longer be in charge of the valuation or determination of the value of individual real estates, which means, in other words, that certain savings are possible at this level. The proposal for a law on mass valuation foresees that a total of around 1 billion tolars will be needed in 2006 and 2007 and around 500 million tolars per year in the coming years. Dear Members and Members, thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 15th meeting, on 9.3. and 17th session, on 11.4.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have obtained the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments to certain articles, most of these comments were also taken into account and adopted when the amendments were adopted by the Committee. We also received a letter from the Municipality of Maribor and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia with amendments. At its 15th meeting, on 9.3., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted two decisions. The first decision was based on the proposal to make a public presentation of opinions on the draft law on interpretation, or a representative of the Government said that it had been under consideration for many years and that a number of experts from all areas had been involved, and that the municipalities had also participated in it, so it was decided that there was no need for a public presentation of opinions. However, it was also agreed at this first meeting that, in accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, consideration should be postponed where it was stated by the Government that the legislative proposal was closely linked to the solutions contained in the proposed Real Estate Registration Act, which was not yet under consideration and was not known what its content was. At its 17th session, on 11.4.2006, the Committee continued its consideration of the proposed law and held a debate and a vote on the articles of the bill. No amendments were adopted until the deadline for the submission of the amendments. The government representative said that the law was in line with the proposal for a real estate registration law. All data on the availability deadlines for government data are clear. The proposed law is one of the laws that provide the basis for determining the value of real estate in Slovenia. It will establish a legal basis for the introduction of a mass property valuation system based on valuation models developed by means of a cost-, income- or comparative approach. The mass valuation system is the main basis for determining the tax base for the real estate tax, but this is not the only purpose. This is not a real estate tax law and will not create a difference in the income position of owners and owners of real estate. The tax will be imposed by the real estate tax law with a special law. The government estimates that, on the basis of the law on the mass valuation of property and the law on the movement tax, this tax is expected to be realised in 2007. In the debate itself, a number of critical comments were made on the solutions proposed, with the greatest attention being given to issues relating to the lack of provisions regarding the use of individual methods of mass valuation of real estate. The question was also raised that there was insufficient funding in the 2006 and 2007 budgets for the implementation of this project, as well as a few questions about the lack of legal provisions on knowledge of those public servants who would also carry out the work. The proposed law would emphasize, not the imposition of a property tax, but only methods for assessing their value. On the basis of these methods, individual real estates will be valued according to the characteristics of the property, its location, type of construction, etc. This does not mean that this value will in any case also constitute a tax base. The proposed tax solutions do not provide for any relief and exemption and have no impact on the management of social, environmental and other policies. These issues will be regulated by a new property tax. I would like to point out another statement at this meeting of the Committee, namely that the proposal for a real estate tax law that is due to come into consideration somewhere in July, will in fact determine how taxes will be collected, which should only compensate for the existing use of urban land and property taxes and should not significantly derogate from that amount. The amendments contained in the bill were adopted. I propose that the National Assembly also adopt a proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you. Procedurally, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u62	President, nice greeting! I don't want to complicate it, but it's a very important marriage. It is not a law that does anything but lays the groundwork for the mass valuation of property due to taxation. Member of the Parliament, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, this is the content of the law, Article 1. This law regulates the valuation of value due to taxation. I stress this because I have a procedural proposal for government representatives to say who is empowered here to speak on behalf of the government. I would expect because it's a property tax, that the Minister of Finance is with us. [[I hear I already apologized for yesterday.]] or any other authorised representative of the government, Mr State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, or Mrs Irena Erjavec or Mrs Marija Ferlež. But I understand that Mrs. Neva Žibrik is here. I say this because I think it is unacceptable that - as far as I have been able to verify in the meantime - there is no authority in Parliament for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to represent the cabinet itself of the Prime Minister. Mr State Secretary Andrej Šircelj is, as is known, the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Otherwise, I do not know why this confusion has arisen, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are enacting a law on the mass valuation of property due to taxation. And in accordance with the Government Act and the Labour Law of the Ministries, this is the area of the Ministry of Finance, so I would expect the Minister of Finance to be with us or at least an authorised representative of the government. I note - of course, you will, the Presidents, be able to verify this - that there is no such authority. Therefore, I propose procedurally that this mandate be ensured or that we wait for the Minister of Finance to return from the Assembly of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and the Slovenian public to tell us how we will tax Slovenian taxpayers by the law on the mass valuation of property on his way to America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you. We've been over this before. Indeed, you are right, the government representative, Mr Shirtzl, is not on the list of those the government has announced to present this law. Since this has happened to us the second time in the last month that the government is represented by people who do not have written authority, I will adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly, in the meantime I will convene a meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, which will be held in five minutes, at 12:25 p.m., in room 217. I ask all Members to ensure their participation. We'll continue the meeting at 12.35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of real estate. I ask those Members who are in the lobby to join us in discussing the bill. Before we move on to the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a conversation with representatives of the representatives of the groups, I would like to give a reminder to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the professional services of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be more up-to-date as regards the verification of the presence of government representatives, announced representatives and those who actually represent the position. Given that the course of the meeting is defined in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will move on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As for the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.4. this year, the government has 15 minutes declared. If a written mandate is not reached by then, the right one, I stress, is the right representative of the government under the said Article and Amendment, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not be allowed to debate either. As we say, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. A colleague of mags. Milana M. Squikla is invited to present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The MPs! On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, I will present our position on the law on the mass valuation of property. Initially, I agree with the Government's reminder, which did not respect Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, does not have an authorised representative in the Chamber. In particular, I regret that the Minister of Finance has not found the power to present before the Slovenian public a law on the mass valuation of property, which today is another step in paying the property tax to Slovenians and Slovenes. In fact, one, two, three will happen in a few weeks in the absence of the Minister of Finance, and you will pay. Step 1, the property registration law, step 2, the estate mass valuation law and step 3, the real estate tax law. Of course, it is clear why there is no minister, because some other, already outgoing minister, the Minister for Development, has actually told us what the taxation of Slovenians and Slovenes will look like. It will look like it will increase, as a real sixth measure, from the economic reforms framework, fiscal revenues are expected to increase by 30 billion by introducing real estate tax. Today we are considering a law that will provide the basis for the calculation of the property tax. Article 1 states: this law shall be adopted for the purpose of taxation. This is the only serious purpose of this marriage. The law has several other foreign purposes, such as to provide a legal basis so that we can employ several more people in the relevant services, and the National Assembly with this law also provides the possibility for municipalities to participate in the preparation of mass valuation models, but the municipalities can only comment to the Ministry responsible for mass evaluation. This law and today's debate does not provide a key answer to the question of how, after these three steps, 1, 2, 3 will be a taxed Slovenian taxpayer, the owner of the property. On the competent committee, we asked representatives of the government who will spend more than a billion tolars of money in two years, after preliminary calculations, what will be the value of the property owned by the pensioner and, for example, the house, which is 250 square metres, in Celje, and what will be the estimated value of 50 square meters of a large apartment owned by a young family in Ljubljana under this law. If we knew that and the government would then be able to tell us how much individual property will also be taxed, in fact, before the Slovenian public today we could talk about the real content of this law - how much the pensioner in Celje will pay the additional property tax and how much the young family in Ljubljana will be taxed. I think that would be good. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we believe that today the greatest disadvantage of the law on the mass valuation of property is that it has not been initiated at the same time to deal with the property tax law. Otherwise, representatives of the ruling coalition say that in July, of course, they will accept all the appropriate grounds for taxing the Slovenians and Slovenians, but when we adopt this law, we will give the government free hands because they are simply methods of mass valuation of property in the law. This was pointed out by the legislature, but also in the second reading the law was not properly reformulated. In the discussion below, we will focus on the amendment, where we will talk about the real estate market register, on why it is important to adopt the amendment and why it would be good to adopt this law together with the real estate tax law. However, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not presented all relevant information to the Slovenian public, we will not support the Liberal Democracy of the Law in the parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you. I invite Member Janko Vebra to present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is a law that follows the law that we have dealt with recently when we talked about registering real estate. We are moving on to the next step, talking about how valuable these registered properties will be or how valuable they will be. The law will make it possible to evaluate market values for different public purposes and to implement appropriate tax and spatial policies and, in particular, to ensure the transparency of the real estate market. In doing so, I would particularly like to highlight the importance of public property. Since 1993, since the establishment of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which manages and manages extremely large state assets - it has been 255,000 hectares of forest and 108 thousand hectares of agricultural land - has not been able to manage its records to date, which would be the basis for us to be able to accurately evaluate the assets of this fund in our documents. In the last period, too, there have been very many words in the public about whether this management is successful or unsuccessful, whether it is at the brink of legality, whether it is illegal or whether land exchange and reselling are carried out in a way that would justify the value of the property under which this fund operates. This purpose for the valuation of property for public purposes is extremely, very important also because of this large property, which obviously we still manage in Slovenia in an inappropriate way. Otherwise, the main product of the general valuation model is the valuation of real estate and the determination of value zones. These are the main elements for determining the value of each individual property subject to valuation and reflect the impact of individual factors or factors on the value of the property. Indirectly, different economic, social, legal and physical factors are also included in the evaluation. Here I would like to draw particular attention to the social factor that takes account of population growth, the level of income of this population and the extent and cost of public funds available to this population. Unfortunately, we note that in the very text of the law we find very little definition of value zones, which are supposed to provide key starting points for how we will also take the social factor into account in the valuation of real estates. Otherwise, there is a way to collect data in Slovenia, which are the basis for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Economic growth or an indicator of the development of an area, we find that the current records are actually kept only in the statistical region. [[...]] For example, the gross social product of Slovenia or it is not possible to obtain this information by municipality, but it can only be obtained for the statistical region as the smallest area for which these measurements and data collection are actually carried out. Of course, there are huge differences within the statistical regions. If we take for example only the central Slovenian statistical region, ranging from Kolpa to Karavank, we can find that there are exceptional differences within this statistical region. We therefore point out that the government is very much responsible under this law, because the law gives it the power to define subgroups within individual real estate groups in more detail and thus to formulate the development policy of individual areas. However, a very important addition to the law has taken place in Parliament in the present procedure, where we have achieved that at least some experimental calculation of the value of real estate is calculated, which will then give us a basis for making decisions that are easier to decide with which. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] We will perform evaluation models in Slovenia. [[...]] With this addition, this law is much more acceptable than the proposaler put in the procedure and we want some more similar additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you. Member Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u69	Dear President, honourable Members! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property. In New Slovenia, we are committed to simplifying the tax system and to ensure that, by making taxes and contributions more transparent, a number of buildings and other properties that do not serve their purpose today will come back to the function for which they were intended. A bill that came before us for many years. The proposal includes the results of the domestic development project and the positive experiences of other European countries. It is modelled on systems known to Scandinavian countries. The mass valuation system is primarily introduced for the purpose of unitary regulation of the real estate tax system. The taxation of real estate in the current legislation is regulated by two parallel systems, which are completely inconsistent. On the one hand, it is a tax on the property of natural persons, and on the other hand it is a system of compensation for the use of building land. The law is demanding. Six sub-legislative regulations will further regulate the broad area of expertise. The main content of the law relates to basic procedures, general evaluation and the attribution of value. A mass valuation service shall be established and the establishment of a register of real estate market data as an upgrade to the real estate register. Evaluation models will be developed through the General Evaluation process, with municipalities and real estate owners playing an active role, which will make concrete comments and proposals on model proposals. The general market value attributed will be kept in the real estate register as a public information. A major innovation will be the real estate market record, in which data on real estate sales prices and rentals realized will be systematically maintained. The register of the real estate market will be public. This law or system of the result of which the general market value of the property will be established can also be seen in the light of the benefits for the individual. The new valuation system leads to greater regulation of the real estate market, and a more transparent real estate market will thus affect the more transparent business of real estate intermediaries as the buyer will also have information on the value of the property he is interested in in the future. The transparent real estate price system will thus have a direct impact on the real estate price calming and balancing, given the actual supply and demand. In the New Slovenia Group, we will strive to ensure that the new single real estate tax system, which will follow the proposal of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, eliminates unjustified inequalities in the treatment of the various taxpayers, covers all types of real estate in taxation and takes their market value into account as a tax base. Such a tax should be intended to cover the part of the public costs invested by individual municipalities in infrastructure, environmental protection and the improvement of the environment in which we live. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the refund, which represents around 19% of tax revenues in the budgets of municipalities, is an important tax source. At the same time, in the New Slovenia Group, we will endeavour to ensure that the tax burden on individuals by introducing the new system does not change significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Jakob Preseknik to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members! The current real estate tax is totally unadjusted in the area of real estate ownership and has certain weaknesses. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support efforts to bring this area to a new regime. The property is now taxed with compensation for the use of building land, with municipalities playing a major role in the taxation of certain properties that may become completely uncompetitive. The property is also taxed on the basis of a citizen's tax law, whose solutions are inappropriate in terms of the market economy. The government has therefore decided to reorganise this area by means of a real estate tax law. One of the grounds for determining the tax base for individual property is the law on the mass valuation of real estate. Such arrangements are also known in other countries of the European Union. In the Government's view, the full taxation of real estate will be possible in 2007 under the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates and Real Estate Tax Law, while the proposed law constitutes an essential basis for the later adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act. However, I must stress that the law is a great challenge and a great responsibility for all who will also participate in the implementation of this law. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear fellow Members! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I will say the first sentence that we absolutely agree that a reminder has been given to the Government today because of the relationship that some take as unrealistic and some justifiable as an insult to the work of this House. This reminder is even more important because, at least in the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that, at least in the laws relating to tax policy, the competent minister must - this is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party - participate, with all due respect for the abundance of work he has. The proposal for a law on the mass valuation of real estate is a logical consequence of the law we discussed at the beginning of today's session. Although we are talking about this law at second reading today, there is a theoretical possibility that someone would wish, given the conditions that will be given to hold a third hearing at this meeting, it is considered and assessed by the Slovenian National Party all along a little strange. The proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property was made, as a result of the law that we discussed a little earlier on recording, and it would be logical that the law that we discussed earlier should be adopted as a basis and, therefore, in this later process, to talk about the law on mass valuation. That's the first time. Another time. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property is a twin with a law that will come to our tables in July, i.e. a law on property taxes, and, as such, these two laws should be considered together in our view. Third time. There are several anachronisms or contradictions in the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property. What am I talking about? Firstly, it has been made public and has also been shown that valuation methods are questionable. Another time. The law provides that operators of general evaluation must have certain expertise. That's what we're talking about. On the other hand, what is of course in stark contrast is that each person will measure his own living area. I publicly declare that I am not qualified to do so. Finally, the issue of verification and evidence of professional competence for mass evaluation was also raised. The next question that is being raised in the Slovenian National Party is the question or assertion of the fundamental objective. The fundamental objective of the real estate register is also set out in this law, and changes in real estate data are currently being maintained. I absolutely argue and stand for the claim that this goal is also the power to achieve it in another way, the so-called individual way of evaluation. With regard to an article which has been withdrawn, the legislature has pointed out that this law does not provide for a legal remedy for possible errors and that any error could lead to a false tax base. Although the article has been lined up, there are still no legal means in the law to remedy possible errors, they are not defined. Last but not least, it should be noted that we are talking about the financial implications of almost a billion tolars for 2006 and 2007, which are not foreseen in the 2006 and 2007 budgets. I would like to point out that they're not foreseen and we're talking about billions. Of course, there are a number of open issues in this law. This law should go slower, it should be awarded much more than it is, and should be monitored in particular by the real estate tax law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will speak on behalf of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We would like, that is, those of the DeSUS Group of Members first to say that we do not agree with the suggestions of some who say that we are now deciding what kind of tax citizens and citizens will pay in the years ahead. It is clear to us and it seems to me that we have sufficient support for this in the text before us, which we support, not in the law on the recording of real estate, but in deciding how much taxpayers will pay, and not in the law on valuation, which is now the subject of our discussions, we are not talking about it. Because there have also been some hints, whether the government or someone else can abuse this law, if we accept what they propose, let me say that we are assessing that these laws are completely neutral. This law or the real estate law or both of these laws would be of great help to any government, even if they had a diametric opposite taxation policy because they only provide the basis. How our property will be taxed will be discussed in the real estate tax law, and it will probably be necessary to be careful enough not to make any excessive mistakes or even stupidities. The government even warns us in writing that it does not provide for extra taxation. She probably meant that an individual would not pay substantially different taxes for the same property today or two years later. We also feel that it is possible to do so on the basis of these two laws. One we've already accepted and the other we're accepting now. However, it is possible to redistribute taxation within the same amount, this is entirely possible, which does not mean that taxation in general would be substantially increased. Maybe when we have a new tax, the tax will be fairer. The 30 billion that are so much talked about will probably mean that those who are taxed today will also be taxed, which means that they do not pay public services that are skilled enough to pass or that others are so clumsy that they cannot tax them. And I think it is right that we all pay the same or similar taxes for the same property and that we all contribute what is necessary for public services to be paid. The substitute for the use of building land, mentioned so many times, which will now, with the new law, when adopted, be replaced, is one of the worse ways of taxing real estate, I think. Even so, since almost 200 congregations are now in sovereign jurisdiction, each congregation can fabricate its own criteria in such a way that it is also an unfair taxation. And it would be wise for us to have more just taxation. We had until recently even a municipality that did not charge any compensation for the use of the building’s land, and perhaps in this way they were courting the electorate and the electorate. The purpose of this law is to create conditions for an appropriate tax policy, for an appropriate social policy, spatial and also environmental policy. To conclude, the role of local communities has been mentioned several times. It is also listed in Article 20 if I skip everything else where it says that municipalities will have to provide data from the register of leases. I've protested against such an article on the board, but nothing's left, I see. It may be an opportunity for a sub-law to be adopted in order to avoid this. For now the congregations do not have these obligations to do so, and they do not have this information and cannot provide it. In addition, it makes no sense for the same data to be transmitted after two tracks, first by a number of administrative units which must have all this information, and then by the local communities which they can have, if they have imposed the necessary work and costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Greetings to all present! The Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate is a technical law. The subject of the law is the multiple valuation of real estate for the envisaged introduction of a property tax, which will replace the collection of a fee for compensation for the use of walled and uninhabited building land and the existing property tax. The reason for this is that, due to the incomplete records and inconsistent methods of certain tax bases, there is an unfair and inadequate taxation of real estate with compensation for the use of building land and existing real estate tax. In the Republic of Slovenia we do not yet have a developed system of mass valuation of real estate. Such a system, with an appropriate legal basis for its implementation, is urgently needed to provide a method that will allow for the mass valuation of property, assets based on market values for various public purposes and thus enable the implementation of an appropriate tax and spatial policy in the field of real estate, ensure the transparency of the real estate market, encourage more up-to-date recording of real estate data and enable the use of data on the real estate market and assessed market values also to the wider range of private users for other purposes, such as the collateralisation of loans and the second flag of real estates, rental, sale and so on. In the Republic of Slovenia, the main purpose of the system of individual evaluation is to assess the market value of individual property, taking into account very precisely the criteria. This method of valuation is long-term, very detailed, focused on only one real estate and related to higher valuation costs and is therefore not directly suitable for mass valuation, so an assessment of the value of a larger number of real estates at the same time. Therefore, the quantification of real estates does not mean an assessment of the higher number of real estates on a given day using the standard procedures and models established by market impact statistics, whereas individual valuation of a particular property on a given day, but also the mass valuation method takes into account the principles of market valuation and therefore results in a more or less accurate assessment of the market value of real estate. The real estate censusers will start work on the ground in September, with the forms will reach any real estate owner who will have the opportunity to complete the form himself or together with the help of an educated censuser. The form will have data on buildings and parts of buildings, their surface, utility equipment and year of construction, remodeling facades, windows, surfaces, by purpose, number of rooms and so on. The valuation will be carried out on an ongoing basis as valuation models will be developed and real estate data will be changed. The law lays down in which cases when the valuation is carried out, i.e. when the value of the owner is attributed, the information shall be communicated to the owner. In principle, the owners will receive a notification of any addition of value unless the value changes due to the revaluation. The owners will be able to modify their real estate data in real estate records after receiving the notification, but in accordance with the real estate registration rules or regulations governing each database. The mass valuation system also provides for the participation of municipalities through the real estate tax system of one of the main users of property value data. All municipalities will have the opportunity to make comments and proposals before the final decision is taken and the models are officially published. They will be able to verify, through experts and the public, the appropriateness of models to their environment. In the SDS Group, we support the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate on Article 32 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day - this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on non-profit mediation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There is no government representative. I'm asking, does anyone object to us continuing without explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Then we continue to consider the law, namely the draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. Nor is Mr Rudolf Petan, who is supposed to present the report,. Since without this report, however, there is no way to continue, I suggest five minutes. Does anyone object to us continuing? [[...]] [[Nobody.]] Then let's move on. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We don't have a lot of people here either. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Apparently, it was lunchtime that almost everyone was gone. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Intermediation Act. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party we estimate that the proposed changes are good and important and we will also support them. The real estate market only works in Slovenia for a little more than 10 years. This is no wonder, since we had until independence a system in which private property had no validity since it was all ours. It is interesting, however, how quickly the real estate market came to life after the change in our social system when private property was given its rightful place. Thus, the number of real estate transactions has increased significantly over the last three years. The number of real estate brokers with a licence, despite their considerable number, is also still growing. Thus, at the beginning of the previous month, the Ministry of the Environment and Space granted new 155 licences for the conduct of real estate transactions. However, the short history of the real estate market and the large and rapid increase in the number of transactions has resulted in certain errors and irregularities, the consequences of which are felt by people who are not at fault. One of the causes is still unedited and inadequate real estate records, which we have already discussed today when we discussed the new real estate registration law. I can't imagine what the situation would be today if the Geodetic Authority did not take a firm approach in 2000 to modernising the recording of real estate. The Real Estate Intermediation Act pursued three objectives: consumer protection, public interest protection and concern for the further development of real estate. The essential novelty of the proposal we have before us is, in our view, set out in Article 2. Any legal person or independent entrepreneur who builds his own real estate for sale on the market will have to sell it through a licensed intermediary. In any event, this obligation will improve the ability to intervene, as investors will have to educate their own staff or hire qualified persons and real estate sellers will be thus equal. In addition, improved and more precise provisions on the content of the intervention contract with regard to the real estate broker's card will contribute to greater professionalism, and more detailing the criteria for temporary or permanent withdrawal of the licence. In this way, it will be possible for an intermediary temporarily under a licence who will not be further trained. Such training is certainly necessary in order to continuously complement the legislation that must be known by real estate intermediaries, both in the legal field and in the rules relating to the construction and regulation of premises. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party will be supported by the proposed amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Government's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Intermediation Act. In our view, the substance of the amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act represents greater protection for the consumer in terms of the safe and prudent operation of the protection of the public interest and the concern for the future development of the real estate market. We are confident that the impact of the proposed changes will be better, in particular with regard to past illegal acts of intervention, false and incomplete data on real estate, false identification of real estate intermediaries, extortions, etc. In our DeSUS Group, we are aware that it is necessary to consolidate, update and make transparent the existing real estate system. According to our conduct, contracts constitute the essence of a concluded real estate transaction or the transfer of property in which it is necessary to define and define all the provisions, the condition of the property, the registration or licence of the real estate intermediary, the prescribed powers of the intermediary defined on both sides: both the buyer, the contracting entity and the contractor. Sanctions are also provided on the basis of detected infringements on the real estate market. Given that the introduction of a property tax is an essential or important reason for the adoption of the law, in our view, the timeliness of the adoption of the real estate three laws, the law on the recording of real estate, the law on the mass valuation of real estate and the law on real estate intermediation are necessary. Therefore, it is more than necessary to establish multi-purpose real estate data and to create such a real estate market that will care and provide the basis or basis for their further use, including the wider use of state and local authorities, owners of individuals and investors. The solutions proposed allow simpler procedures for registering real estate, reliability and up-to-date data, professional competence of staff, organisational integration of intermediaries, transparency of real estate records and control of implementation and the competent ones. However, any additional management and implementation obligations proposed for the establishment of the real estate market require additional financial resources estimated at SIT 1.5 billion in 2006 and less than in the previous year in 2007. With regard to the insight into these records, we in the DeSUS Group believe that these records are of a public nature, that is to say, to all users. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the size and dimensions of the project being launched, which concerns the entire area of real estate. We note that the development of the real estate market in terms of efficiency, economy and prudence and the trend of performance by 2010, some 70 000 to 80 000, requires multi-purpose records and the establishment of a whole system with modern approaches, including the establishment of real estate funds for the implementation of long-term real estate investments that will combine spatial, social and tax policies. In doing so, we point to the start of the real estate company report, the start of 1.1.2007 and not until the middle of next year. In our parliamentary group, we anticipate that this law, together with the other two, will help to make an obvious very large contribution to the Slovenian real estate market. The law should therefore be adopted as soon as possible and continued with appropriate taxation. The reform committee document provides for a property tax revenue of 30 billion. With regard to the acquisition of professional skills for a real estate intermediary, however, we are confident in the DeSUS Group of Members and undoubtedly advocates of the relevant education, the acquisition of a licence within a certain period of time. On the basis of this, Members of the DeSUS will support the amended proposal for a law on the real estate intervention of the Home Working Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The basic law, which is now being amended, was adopted in 2003. The then stated objectives of the law were: consumer protection, protection of public interest and the development of the real estate sector, which, without law as a rapidly developing industry, succumbed to temptations and delusions, under terms, capable real estate traders. As early as 2003, the affairs began and broke out, and some of them broke out after that date, but of course they were earlier than Trzin, Zbiljski Gaj, and also at the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, in some cases, nothing was better, and many things were done domestically according to the "inventibility of the involved". The law itself does not yet constitute order, but is the first condition for regulating or perhaps even regulating the situation on the real estate market. A real estate intermediary has been introduced to obtain a license from the Ministry of Resort, which is also entered in the real estate brokers' directory. A necessary approach is essential in our effectiveness of the supervisory authorities. In some countries where the supervisory function is so-called a necessary and self-evident component of the system of this feature, or at least they do not have such an organization, this is, for example, in the UK, where they have a system of negative permits. The essence of such an approach is that there is no need for authorisation to carry out an activity. Everyone can only work in this area until the competent state institution questions the integrity and appropriateness of the work of the intermediary due to the way in which they work. In such a case, they shall issue a decision on the complete or partial prohibition of the exercise of an activity. If some of the gentlemen from Trzin, Zbiljska Gaj, were in England, they would have had a seal on their activities long ago, including notaries. However, because Trzin and Zbilijski Gaj are sometimes also a housing fund with us, we also need to change not exclusively, but also to amend legislation that is intended to partially correct the inaction or poor functioning of the judiciary. In view of the fact that we have over 500 entities licensed for real estate mediation, it is necessary to amend the legislation in that part which has proved to be a loophole or insufficiently fixed. The proposed amendments would like to follow the government's guidance on simplifying procedures and regulate real estate intervention under the new valuation law. These approaches are intended to limit the practice of misleading clients with incomplete, wrong and often misleading data, and this work has become a daily practice or even a way of working some intermediaries. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support more detailed rules on the service itself, as set out in Article 1, also on the obligations of the investor, which is at the same time an investment operator and also a real estate seller, including on the withdrawal of the licence, a more detailed description or a more detailed rule on the duration of the contract, on the information to be included in the contract, on the detailed rules on advertising, on the information contained in the real estate broker's directory, including on the Ministry's competence to conduct expert examinations of intermediaries and on a number of other minor changes brought about by this amendment. In the SDS Group, we support the proposed changes due to the urgent greater protection of consumer services, which have so far been left to themselves and to the mercy and mercy of intermediaries. At the same time, mediation is expected to gain confidence from some who have exploited the trust of citizens and citizens, so we will support the proposed changes in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you. Dr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u85	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have reviewed the amendments and additions to the Real Estate Act, of course, and we have found that these amendments and additions relate mainly to provisions that would bring greater protection to the consumer by means of more detailed provisions to be included in the real estate transfer contract, the verification of the real estate situation, the reasons for the permanent or temporary withdrawal of the licence to the real estate intermediary are further elaborated, and the competence to carry out the professional examinations and additional training is prescribed. The criminal provisions of the law, which are intended to contribute to the elimination and sanctioning of the infringements found on the property market, which have now been impossible to sanction, are also complemented. As already mentioned, practice in the real estate market, certain affairs, incidents also contributed to the addition of this law. As a result, the law had already been amended and we believe that the proposalers would be assured that this law would reduce the number of gaps or gaps arising from this real estate intervention segment. We believe that it is not possible to completely avoid additional risks and possible affairs or irregularities in this area, as those who are always looking for new options are usually more innovative than legal practice or inspection services. At the same time, it should also be known that these additions at the same time bring additional work, additional bureaucratic tasks and additional costs, which in turn also adversely affect the real estate market. Various actors and stakeholders, not to say lobbyists in relation to this law, have criticised some solutions, some have argued, some have differed views among themselves, but we believe that the debate on the Committee has shown that we have no reason not to believe in this case that the proponents are proposing solutions based on experiences that they believe are good and will also work. We believe and hope that this will happen, so we will not oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here you are, Mr. Weber, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u87	Mr President, I think it is a procedural proposal, because you mentioned that you are concluding the presentation of the parliamentary groups, I was accidentally out of the room when it was time to present the opinion of our parliamentary group, and I am procedurally asking whether I could do so at this point in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u88	Unfortunately you cannot, but you will be able to apply for the debate and you will have 20 minutes to discuss. I think that's enough. So we are moving on to the debate on Article 23 and the amendments, namely the first amendment of the SDS and SLS parliamentary groups, and the second amendment proposed by the Social Democrats Group. Who wants a word? Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. In particular, the Real Estate Intermediation Act seeks to regulate a more transparent way of dealing in real estate and to protect the consumer to the greatest extent. In the amendment tabled in Article 23, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the applicant does not take due account of the experience of the real estate intermediaries that have been acquired through long-term work in this area. In view of the conditions set out in Article 23, it strengthens the way that all those with vocational education will lose their licences in 2007, as they have done so far also on the basis of decisions of administrative units. It is virtually impossible to obtain a higher education within four years of the statutory deadline, so in the amendment we would like to draw attention to the fact that it is for people who are 20 years of age or older and who are in fact just before retirement. By losing their license just before retirement, of course, they also lose their social security, which is what we are extremely concerned about in this law and in these solutions. Therefore, we would like the proposer to consider these possible solutions and, in particular, the consequences of the restriction on the fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining a licence by the second reading of this amendment until the third reading. I think it is true that our concern that we must take into account knowledge in particular, many times this knowledge is acquired right on the market, in practice, in everyday activities and many times it also exceeds the knowledge that can be acquired already in the education process. This is what we believe is the reason why the proposer should examine these solutions further and, of course, really helps us all to be of the best quality in providing these services. We particularly see the opportunity for the applicant to take this comment into account, since the law provides that the Minister himself will decide when and to what extent he will take into account the examination of knowledge in supplementary training, because there are no clearly defined criteria in the law on the basis of which the Minister will decide what checks he will carry out and when he will actually decide or when he will check who has acquired what knowledge in supplementary education. So the government leaves a very wide space for the minister to somehow decide whether or not he will take any additional education into account and how he will examine it. Of course, the solution itself, which is enshrined in the law, is unacceptable in my view, the criteria should be clearly written down and thus we can also prevent the Minister from deciding on who he will recognise the complementary training and who will not. I hope that there is sufficient understanding with regard to those who have not yet received sufficient education from the proposer and must obtain it. That is why we would also like the amendment to Article 23 to be adopted, and thus we are trying to really clear up all the content relating to education, and we can also solve this problem, which somehow allows the Minister to make decisions at his own discretion and, if you want, even after a political judgement, who will be recognised or not. And certain solutions could certainly, according to which articles are still open in the second reading and in the case of amendments, then, even in the third reading, be much more qualitative in Article 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I might not say it all over again, but I would say again what I think is the reason why the amendment to Article 23 should be supported. There are not many people who have a problem because they have neither secondary education nor higher education, but they have been doing this profession for many years, but they have already done it before 1999, they are successful, there are no comments, they have passed the required examination, and all the transitional provisions of the law so far have not had special solutions for them, and they have actually been placed in the same position as those who had "complete" or general secondary or vocational school, but not professional, they have been given the same four years to obtain higher education. It is practically impossible to do this because the medium professional three-year to medium professional is a two-year programme. And to say that in the next two years of high school someone would immediately make an even higher school, he would say very difficult, never having made such demands in transitional provisions, were usually requirements that amounted to at least twice a normal study, plus the diploma that you need. These were short-circuited conditions that were "unrealizable", which could not be fulfilled. And now there would be consequences, loss of work, financing, regulation of the situation in the family and so on; and I would ask that, for these reasons too, although perhaps the amendment is not the only one that can be adopted in the second reading and supported also by the Government's suggestion that we might consider later in the third, whether any other solution is more acceptable to set a deadline in it. I think there should be a few ten of them, but probably not so many, people thinking and finding them a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Starman, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment and Space, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I'd just like to point out two things. The first point as to when the Minister may order the verification of knowledge is clearly set out in Article 8(1), i.e. only every five years and only when the rules in this area have been amended. So the criteria are very objective and there is virtually no room for discretion. With regard to the proposed amendment to Article 23, we were also reminded by the Legislative and Legal Service that it was necessary to treat the situation that was similar at the time the basic law came into force in 2003, and that a certain segment of people already engaged in this business, and that these transitional provisions set out the same conditions as those for people who later had to complete their education and also perform their examination. If, in this case, the softer criteria were to be made, which could also be understood from the point of view of a sense of security and sustainability of work, they would in fact discriminate and two totally de facto situations, a perfectly comparable legal situation would be dealt with differently. The proposer therefore did not agree with this; he did not agree with this amendment precisely for the purpose of equating the legal situation. Since 2003, a new profession has been introduced, which has been carried out until then in an unregulated manner, and the deadline and all the criteria have been enabled, as well as educational conditions. The current situation is the same, a certain segment of people who are currently engaged in this activity in the investor, which is in the public interest and in particular in the interests of consumers, now have exactly the same conditions as everyone else had in 2003. This was in fact an argument as to why the text of Article 23 is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In the paper, Mr Starman, in which you claim that the law of 1999, when it was adopted, and the first novels did not specifically deal with cases of vocational schools, I agree with you - they did not. And, ladies and gentlemen, I can say, in a formal or substantive sense, they missed it back then. But then the country or chamber that did this allowed them to perform the tests. And they did the same as those in high school, in general, they did the exams, they did the exams, and they were, let alone, in accordance with the law or not, guaranteed that, under the same conditions as these others. And they've probably worked this way, they've done professional exams, they've got probation licenses, and they're doing business now. In this part, the situation is not completely clear. And second, whether the additional conditions for these in the way we have formulated them or slightly otherwise, would mean inequality before the law - it's hard to say in advance. I would not hope to say that there will be, not a hundred percent, that there will not be, but certainly there will be different legal situations, someone has a perfect secondary school, someone else, I speak the old way, this perfect high school does not have, but it has a professional three-year-old; and they are not in the same position. And I would point out once again what the government is not thinking, and I don't know if the legislative and legal service, when it warned about it, has been affected by a three-year high school in four years by a physical education system they couldn't do. They couldn't! In order to get the right to enroll, they had to do high school. This secondary school - they need a two-year programme to come from vocational to general secondary education, and then at least two years to complete higher education with a diploma, which is a miracle for an extraordinary study and for a normal performance of work. And that was a special criterion that was not respected. You have taken into account in those who have a complete general secondary school that they are four years old, it is said, and a two-year study is once again as much as was customary in law. For these people with a vocational school, you didn't even foresee a transition. And that's why I don't think it would be wrong to actually predict it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Weber. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. This amendment, proposed by the Social Democrats, is somewhere human and man is thinking whether it would be wrong to support it so that those people who are in a difficult position towards the end of their working life would not be in a difficult situation. On the other hand, we must also agree with what the Secretary of State, Mr Starman, has said. And I would extend it to other professions and other similar situations that have happened. Let me give you an example, a very similar thing happened to geodetic techniques. Today it would hurt my heart to allow today those with an imperfect secondary school in this area of real estate mediation, because our geodetic technicians went through the entire calvary, used all the procedures, to the Constitutional Court and failed. This is another further argument that we cannot accept this amendment of yours. When I look at it that way, it actually puts itself in an unequal position all the other spheres that they were not allowed to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 2.20 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u99	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. Thank you for your attention. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Dr Paul Gantar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question raised by Dr Paul Gantar concerning the statement by the President of the Council of the Institute of Kobilar Lipica. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 35. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport of Mags. Janez Bozič on the question of Mr. Friend's luck in connection with the construction of the second railway track Divac-Koper. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 37. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Dusan Kumra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Dusan Kumr's question about the further development of electricity prices. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Slavko Gabra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jureta Zupan, to the question of the dialogue with the Student Organisation of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In line with Ambassador Breda Pečan's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Juret Zupan, to Mrs Breda Pečan's question on the financing of higher education. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Following a proposal from Mr Davorin Terčona, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Vasko Simoniti to Davorin Terčona's question on the agenda for the protection and development of Kobilarna Lipica. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u100	I'll support this proposal. Finally, a similar question to Minister Simoniti was raised already in January 2006 and in the coming months it proved to be an answer, at least the practice thus confirmed it, false, incomplete, vague and also misleading. What is happening in Lipica today will happen tomorrow, when correspondence or a different way will be reduced to those people who believe that it is necessary to defend this piece of natural cultural heritage. This is unheard of, this is unacceptable and in accordance with all the warnings we and we continue to give. And no doubt in this way, in a hidden and misleading way, the government will trample on what it has recently defended for the greatest interest in the field of culture and identity of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to discuss, and it is therefore necessary to obtain further answers and also to clarify definitively how, in a particular territory in which it is not affected, it is possible to obtain additional opportunities for entertainment at the expense of the Government and its individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljubo Germič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question by Mr Ljub Germić, on the concept of a wage system in the public sector. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress why it is important to support Mr Germić's proposal. Because Mr Virant spoke quite a bit of inaccuracies in this National Assembly. He said that the Law on Medical Services, which we will deal with at this meeting, is somehow inconsistent, is in line with the policy where we should arrange everything in collective agreements and some things in law. Mr Virant said that there is nothing in this law that would not apply to the whole public sector. It is said that there is nothing contrary to the whole public sector in the Medical Service Act, which will introduce an additional payment, in the opinion of Mr Virant in order to be paid. That's just not true. It would therefore be earlier before we fully adopt this Law on Medical Services in the National Assembly, discuss the system of wages, discuss why the government has one vat to doctors and the other vat to judges and will have a third approach to teachers and others. Mr Virant did not respond correctly to his colleague Germić's question. We believe that it would be valid in the National Assembly to discuss whether we have more important patients, 2 million patients and patients in Slovenia, whether there are several thousand doctors and not with this law, with the medical service law, in fact, we are destroying the whole system of public wages, which Mr Virant says will not collapse. Let us discuss this and face the facts, so I propose that you support the procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a real estate registration law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, namely, we have two amendments to Article 103. Both were proposed by the LDS Group of Members. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment, [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Yes, excuse me, the LDS proposed the second and the first government of the Republic of Slovenia, so we are moving first to the decision on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendment of the LDS MP to Article 103. [[...]] Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u104	Mr President, I will explain the position of the Member's Club on this amendment. This amendment actually complements the amendment tabled by the LDS Group of Members and we will vote on it. It is our view that it is very positive that the government has adopted the logic of the amendment that we have tabled, that it has divided these buildings into residential and non-residential buildings in some way with its amendment and the support of the LDS amendment, in some way recognised that they have demanded too much data. While we believe that in this additional amendment, some data are excessive or unnecessary. Nevertheless, I would say that this is exactly why we will abstain, then we will support our amendment, and if this amendment is then adopted, including amendments to this government amendment, we intend to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 103. If this is not accepted, then it is just accepted as a meaningless amendment. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done with the third review of the law. As regards the harmonisation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The harmonisation amendment to Article 46 is necessary because the Committee of the National Council for the Environment and Space in the second reading of the proposed Real Estate Registration Act has adopted an amendment to the amendment that the 43rd Article, which regulates the legal consequences of the finding of the illegality of the final act, is deleted as Article 46, which was formerly Article 47, provides that the provisions of the previous Chapter shall apply mutatis mutandis in the procedure for the change of the boundary of the parcel, including as regards legal consequences. I propose that the proposed amendment be adopted by the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u107	Since the government has warned that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted, the Government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment to Article 46, which you have received on the bench. Would any of the Members and Members wish to speak on the harmonisation amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u108	On behalf of the Group of Members. Your Honors are here! Despite the amendment of Article 103 of the Act, at least after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, we did not significantly intervene in the Act. This law continues to follow only one objective, namely the introduction of a new tax. This is not the case, as was the case with some Members in the debate, that this is a substitute tax, is not true. It is a new tax that will burden citizens and citizens with 30 billion Slovenian tolars. According to our assessment, the National Assembly of this kind should not have adopted such a law. The fact is, as we said in the debate, that over 92% of the budget revenue of the Republic of Slovenia consists of tax revenues. And by adopting this law, we will not help any citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, or even more exclusively, and will resubmit a new tax that will have to be paid. The amount of 30 billion Slovenian tolls at the assessment, as set by the Ministry of Finance, is therefore the market value of the real estate, the basis of which is adopted today or will be adopted by this law and the following, will result in a tax of probably 2% of the annual amount of property owned by an individual. In my opinion, this type of approach is completely flawed. Above all, it is irresponsible of the legislator of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, who had the opportunity 30 days ago to hold a broader debate on the same subject, where the answers that have been raised several times in the course of the debate would be received today, but you refused the opportunity to debate. According to my assessment, the National Assembly, in order to follow the social justice and other state standard set out in the Constitution of Slovenia, should also choose a different approach and not thus reject, as I have said, citizens and citizens of the new tax system. The law that will be adopted today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been tanning or marking with multi-purpose identification or resolution and use of records, but we all know that is not the case. These records will serve only one purpose, namely the definition, the determination of the height and the allocation of a new tax on our citizens. We will oppose such a marriage proposal in the national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u109	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present and 61 votes against 6. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the third item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of real estate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 32. The amendment was proposed by the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will vote on the draft law on Wednesday, 3 May 2006, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the real estate intervention law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS and SLS to Article 23. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 23. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Since a few fewer colleagues and colleagues were present at the time when we discussed the amendment, I would like to reiterate that we would like to allow this amendment to be made available to real estate brokers, who for a long time before 1999, when the law was enacted, who do not have an adequate education under the law, the possibility that, if they are 20 years before retirement, they will also be granted a secondary vocational education as a condition or provide a different solution. The solutions that have been adopted in the law regarding them so far have not enabled them to obtain adequate education. A period of four years has been set for the acquisition of appropriate education. From a secondary school to a higher school, which is a fundamental condition, education cannot be compensated in four years. During the period from secondary vocational to secondary school, it takes two years to study, and for higher school, probably at work, no one will say that it can be completed within two years. So I suggest you accept the amendment. I don't believe there are any serious concerns about him. One that was supposed to trigger the debate was said, but more in this direction, if others couldn't find it, even you didn't, I don't think it's what a strong argument is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you. We're voting on the amendment. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I give my word to the bill-maker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u112	We propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u113	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter of the law, as you have heard, proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. The proposal will not be adopted if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Monday, 24 April 2006, following a final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. I interrupt the 16th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m., no, excuse me, Monday at 10 a.m. Have a nice spring weekend.
