ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlich, Bogdan Barovich, Ivan Grill, Ivan Jelen, Victory Jelinčič Tribal, Drago Koren and Rudolf Petan until 9.45. We're moving on to 13. Period of the day - this is the third defensively proposed law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovaks outside its borders. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Zorko Pelikan, Secretary of State, and please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament. Today we have a third reading of the proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders. After 15 years, the law regulates relations for the first time as a legal text between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside our borders, Slovenes in neighbouring countries, indigenous peoples, Slovenians around the world and in European countries, as our counterparts. The law regulates various areas of operation, culture, economy, regional cooperation, also governs the return of our people, i.e. repatriation, and the supplement you have in the material also talks about the return of other Slovenian emigrants who want to return to the Republic of Slovenia. It regulates the area of cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the communities of our cousins around the world in various areas. Regional cooperation in the area along the border also brings important innovation, in our approach to relatives outside our borders. It is also an important novelty in the area of financing, because so far our relations have somehow been regulated in some way in the continuation of tradition, with goodwill and in accordance with the resolutions of the National Assembly. This will be the first time we will have a legal framework where we can regulate our cooperation. The marriage text also contains a chapter on the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship, which is also a novelty in this area. The proposed text, which is under consideration today, is in line with the Government's proposal, in line with our expectations that we had as sponsors of this law. We support some amendments that are still correcting this law. At the same time, on this occasion, I also announce the need for a harmonisation amendment to the content of Article 23 because, at the time of consideration in the national assembly, the text in this Article has changed, in the first and second paragraphs, so that the non-compliance with the third paragraph of this Article has changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Mr Marjan Pippa, representative of Slovenian minority coordination, who will deliver an opinion on behalf of the Slovenians in exchange. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We take this initiative to regulate the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians, in conjunction with the law, in a comprehensive way, and we also express our expectations that the law will eventually take account of the subjectivity of Slovenians in place and around the world and that it will establish mechanisms that will be effective. The situations experienced by members of minorities in the area of housing and also by evicted communities are often extremely sensitive because they are also involved in interstate relations, in interstate interests which are often contradictory. We would like, first of all, such a law, which will not only be based on the needs of the State, but will satisfy the needs of those communities to which this law is intended. Therefore, we consider it necessary to make certain additions to this law, which are found in the structural regulation of the relations to be regulated. The draft law that we have before us is very ambitious in principle, in principle, in the structural order of care and responsibility for its minority and the regulation of relations, and with it is lagging behind our expectations. The government programme was very ambitious, and in fact we expected the neighbouring Slovenian communities to start a new period of relations, which will be somewhat higher. We know and are aware that the Republic of Slovenia, a young country in the first stages of the second foreign policy priority, which has also been successfully implemented, has been included in the European Union and NATO. After these projects have been successfully completed, we have actually hoped for a new momentum in this issue of relations with our minority communities. Once again, I am reminding us of the government's programme which gave us this hope, which states that the government supports the concern of the Slovenians for the legitimacy and effectiveness of their representation, so it will strengthen the efforts of Slovenian national communities in individual countries for a jointly democratically elected political, plural representation that will be represented in the Republic of Slovenia. And I think that it is also an essential issue to regulate relations between the communities of the Republic of Germany and the Slovenian State. Look, Europe has undergone a major overhaul in the last two decades and has received a new socio-political form. However, the Slovenians of the country are still entangled in those organizational structures that we had before the fall of the Iron Curtain and before the fall of the Berlin Wall. These structures are ineffective. Duality in all areas, duality in political representation, duality at cultural level, duality in education, even in the economic field. This duality of organisational structures, which we do not only know in Koroška, but also exist in the neighbourhood community in Italy, is hampered by this duality because it is not complemented but repeated. And there's no reason for this duplication. And I also draw attention here to the responsibility and responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia, as our home country, to help us out of trouble, because we ourselves will not succeed in having a national community organised at the level of social law, with societies, like beekeeping society or the society of Slovenian boarders or the like. He has only the option of begging, begging, calling and appeals. These are ineffective options, and here I also appeal responsibility to the Republic of Slovenia as a country of origin, because the Republic of Slovenia also maintains this duality, which is unnecessary and ineffective for a minority alone and also for regulating relations. And the law that we are considering at this point today is not very encouraging, since the provision on financial assistance to the foreign Slovenian communities provides that the Republic of Slovenia is helping to maintain the structures and activities of Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia with financial support. So it also helps to maintain the inefficient, infertile duality of our structures in which we are still trapped. I am questioning whether it would be more prudent to follow the proposal that came from the substitution, aware of this inefficient organisational structure. In order to establish the purpose and objectives of financing in the sense that this support should be intended to preserve and develop as a national community and that, as such, the national community may be included in the social structures of the country in which it resides. To ensure that the national community is fully integrated into the single Slovenian cultural space and is constantly linked to life in the matrix and successfully integrated into interstate and European connections. I do not think that these are too high expectations that we are expressing here, and in fact this is also a great responsibility and the task of the Republic of Slovenia to help us out of trouble here. For we are not protected from destructive elements, destructive forces, destructive thinking, and perhaps even selfish thinking. I hope to say today that this duality that we are experiencing in our organisational structures is also a fruit of the fact that the duality of structures also means the duality of jobs. These are also many times those tendencies when the Republic of Slovenia should help us with a clear line from this problem. I would also like to address the issue of the creation of an external policy and, above all, in the structural sense, the composition of that Council for Slovenians in place, which is intended to substantially co-form this foreign policy. We feel this need for the coordination and uniform performance of both Slovenian national communities and Slovenian countries and Slovenian foreign policy. It is not encouraging for us if the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u5	Mr. Pipp, time is running out. It's over.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u6	If I can just finish this thought. It is not encouraging for us that the Ministry of Transport, just at the time when the Slovenian minority community is in a hurry in Brussels and also informing the international public about the failure to resolve minority problems, because we have come to the conclusion that the path of internationalisation and also external pressure is the only way to resolve this problem, that it is at that time that we are organising a meeting with the Coroner's Transport Reference, Mr Dörfner. To those councillors of Dörfner, who is responsible for the scandalous movement of bilingual local inscriptions in Koroška in Pliberk and whose policy and conduct have been marked by prominent Austrian lawyers, I call only Heainz Mayer as the first step towards a coup d'état. I don't think it's encouraging for a minority to have more policy coherence, especially the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, including with the Slovenian minority communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Branko Zorn, representative of the World Slovenian Congress of Slovenia in the world, Rafael's Society and the Association of Slovenian Emigration Matica, who will give an opinion on behalf of Slovenian citizens around the world. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of civil society dealing with emigrants! Today is a great day in the history of Slovenian emigration, as it shows that a law will almost unanimously be passed, which is to be passed by relatives around the world for many years. Since now, the law has linked three groups: expatriates, states and Slovenian people. At the end of a relatively long process, we are paradoxically at the beginning of the process of reconciliation and the reconciliation of emigrants with the law of the State and the people with the emigrants. Much more energy will have to be invested in the law in order to become useful and friendly either to citizens in the country or to expatriates. The emigrants must be aware that from now on they will have a favored motherhood of Slovenia, or her highest representative, the future minister, with the law of their interlocutor. Emigrants must overcome the obstacles they have seen in the country and in the nation, mistrust, bitterness, disappointment, feelings of inferiority. The times and people are new, the more inclined they are, the more opportunities there are, but the displaced are obliged to take a step forward in terms of greater commitment. May they ask themselves or with our help whether I am not part of this kind nation in an advanced country. They must make sure that repatriation can also be a good choice. In order to achieve such conversions, however, the country and the nation must play an important role. The state must recognise the responsibility for the historical situation that has led to the fact that so many of our people are outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. The country has to correct the unfair and negative attitude towards the Slovenians around the world, which it has developed primarily through public information in the 10 years. Exclusion is part of our past, we must not be ashamed of it, in addition to the painful consequences of evicting has positive consequences, as it can contribute to the better political, economic, sociological and legal recognition of Slovenia, which has been repeatedly distorted in the world. It is the duty of the State to establish a new relationship with the emigrants. The country does not allow permanent bilateral information to be provided to emigrants and native Slovenes. On the Internet, on the TV, the phones are easier today. The state has to make sure that so many Slovenians are out of bounds. He must also accompany them with cultural institutions, constantly inviting them back. The current breakdown of the notions of expatriates is no longer current. With the new roofing law there is only a category of Slovenes outside the border or Slovenes abroad, treated as part of the national body. Officials need to be taught about the law without delay, to design counselors who can answer different questions, and to solve complex cases. From the first impression, it will depend on how much interest the evicts will have in their favored marriage. The law will also be fairer as it will allow scholarships to all children of Slovenian expatriates who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. These children will be able to run in various competitions. The law will also allow regular membership of the SAZU and the possibility of Slovenian language courses everywhere where Slovenian communities live organized. In the law, chapters of studies for young people, employment opportunities for adults and regulated pensioners should be specifically defined and certainly represent priority triptyches. Slovenia today respects emigrants as equal citizens, and it also wants to count on them. A multi-party country with a properly targeted national programme must ensure this. Slovenia needs the return of the emigrants; so few Slovenians have returned to the new country, we can peacefully have one of the most negative points of the young country. The Slovenian people will have to be aware that Slovenians outside the borders are equal citizens, although they do not contribute to the common welfare of the Republic of Slovenia by paying taxes, they are indirectly good representatives of the country and, if necessary, help them with promotion. The same as for the evict is some kind of test for the citizen. Few families were also displaced for a short period of time in their mother’s Slovenia. That is why part of the nation is unloved with repatriation, when-why have they returned, or because they have no right to teach us. Repatriates are generally working, friendly, flexible, fair, positive and successful. The Slovenian nation can only win at the time of the reception of the emigrants, and we are all reminded of the world-renowned successful emigrants who have encountered resistance when they have expressed critical thoughts about the situation in their own country. The emigrants deserve a greater reputation. Informing the people about the consequences of emigration and how to get over it and overcome it is a process that we must quickly carry out with common strength and with the help of the state. When the choirs of emigrants and the home people are homogeneous and they begin to pursue common benefits and develop the same attitude towards Slovenian identity and Slovenian space, it will be easier in the Republic of Slovenia to allow the seat of a Member, representative of the emigrants in the National Assembly. This matter must mature in the heart of all and must by no means be a unilateral decision. While the Slovenian mother will be convinced of the eligibility of this important step, it is necessary for the emigrants to make a clear statement of this need or requirement before such an important decision is taken that there is a need for consensus between the State representatives and the emigrants. Only the experience of implementing the new law will show how and how much benefit the emigrants have from him, what needs to be changed or complemented, that is, immediately to work. Nothing is completely delayed. The Slovenian will only insist on a strong Slovenian at home. It is good to be aware of the importance of the relationship between Slovenians on foreign and domestic life.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I give the full floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups to present my views on the draft law. Please, Mr Sašo Pece, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! Both speakers, in particular the first before me, said that the law in its contents, the law that is before us today in the third reading, bears or directs the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to our relatives. Another very important point was that the law was trying to partially correct past mistakes. But let me first comment on the first point to show our approach to the relatives. According to my assessment, the content of this government's work as well as that of Parliament indicates a multiplicity of the Republic of Slovenia's attitude to this issue, particularly when it comes to the relationship of the institution of the national assembly or the legislative branch of power, that is, Parliament in our country. According to my assessment, the content and concern of this National Assembly can best be shown on the basis of different tracks or multiples. We discussed the word on multiplicity several times at the beginning of this session last week. At that time, it was said that multiplicity also had positive directions. In this case, I think he only has negative things. According to my assessment, Parliament is carrying two types of measures and, above all, different measures, with different weights, with different financial support to this issue, which should normally be a single substantive set. What are these criteria that the National Assembly is increasingly using in its work? We are moving further away from the years of independence, and these criteria are increasingly strong. I've said the same thing in the National Assembly once before. But from that year to this year [[2006]] These criteria have only deepened. Unfortunately, there are no criteria for concern or form of aid, content of aid, number of strays in each area. I must say, unfortunately that's not the criteria. Secondly, unfortunately, there are also no criteria for the weight of the problem that individuals are dealing with outside our borders. Therefore, what should be the criteria on the basis of which the home country should, whether the institution of the government or the institution of Parliament, act, but, very sadly, this aid criterion is primarily an exotic state, I do not want to be insulted by the word exotic, and the differentness of this country. According to my assessment, the National Assembly gives much of its work or so-called virtual responsibility for this issue through different and exotic O. According to my assessment, much of the concern is reflected mainly in the desire to accelerate and increase so-called parliamentary tourism, and secondly, in the ever-increasing concern and desire for government tourism. Of course, both concepts, which have become strongly rooted in our country, are a wrong approach to the question that both speakers have defined substantively before me. I personally believe that it is not the desire of foreigners or relatives, as we call them, that Members of the Slovenian people will travel by plane to a luxury journey far beyond the shore, but that their problems addressed to the country of origin, that is, the Republic of Slovenia, will be materially solved, but that is not the case. The fact is, when talking about parliamentary or government tourism, we can also call it together political tourism, which we are also making in this house, or rather, what you are doing in this house, is best seen from the frequency, the frequency of travel in, as I said before, Argentina, Brazil and similar things, the delegation of the National Assembly. And on the other hand, by keeping your eyes closed from problems in our neighbours, the Austrians. In the case of 'presing' implemented by a certain part of Austrian policy, in the absence of a response by the Slovenian government to this issue and in the absence of a response from the work of the national assembly to this issue. Some of the wicked talk among us about some higher goals, which are much higher than those of the Slovenians who live beyond our borders. That the issue of Slovenians beyond our borders is just a kind of cover for resolution or to support the work of an official policy for which Slovenia wants to have a border beyond. But the fact is that more financial resources in the form and the travel protocol are being used by this country, in agreement with the National Visiting Assembly of those exotic countries, and I do not want exoticism to offend those countries, rather than those countries directly bordering our country. Speaker mags. Marjan Pipp said, and I hope not to tear it out of context, but to me personally, it was a very important part that the law was written for the needs of the state. That's how I evaluate it, and that's a mistake. This law should not be written for the purposes of the State. This law should be written for the needs of the Slovenians beyond our borders. Therefore, personally, it also seems completely inappropriate to me that the law does not carry all the goals they pursue, but carries a greater part or makes it possible to exploit, in my humble opinion on this area, people, Slovenes beyond our borders. In short, the law reflects the needs of this country, this government and this Parliament. And if you allow me, I would also like to touch upon the financial consequences of this law, which should be, I stress, much better written, especially given that the law has long been prepared to try, at least in my conduct, to include all those who are touched by the law, insofar as they are allowed. And it seems almost catastrophic to us in the area of financial consequences that refugees - of course I feel for them - are worth more at a given moment than Slovenians outside Slovenian borders. Taking into account the content and legality, in particular the legal content of Slovenian legislation, I must say that Slovenians receive financial assistance for six months. Slovenian and Slovenek, who lived in the Republic of Slovenia and worked in the past, receive financial assistance for six months and a half years. Slovenians beyond our borders, who are to return or try to return to our homeland, are to receive the form of state aid on financial resources for one year. Slovenians. Refugees have been receiving this assistance for three years. According to my assessment, these passages in time are in exactly the opposite order as they should be. In my opinion, the easiest thing to do is to present the content of this law with words that I will borrow from the speaker in front of me. Unfortunately, the law is written for the needs of the state and government, not for the needs of those people who are boisterous in their content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to everyone too! So far, it has been heard that we all feel that the law must have been adopted as a matter of urgency and that it needs to be amended immediately. We, too, in the DeSUS Group, think that it is not well done to this extent that we can be satisfied without calling, and we think that we have the first opportunity to change already today, with partial support from some of the amendments that have been tabled. What's good is probably accepted as good for everyone. In view of the fact that now, differently, relations are being regulated more firmly, that it is an institutionalisation of aid, that it is also an institutionalisation of financial assistance, that it is a matter of getting a minister without a ticket or that we will get him in a few years to get a home for immigrants and something else good will be found. However, there are things with which in the DeSUS Group we cannot just directly and fully solidarity and should also list some of these. First time. We believe that the ways of adopting this law, at least as far as we are concerned, are not appropriate, to remind ourselves that we wanted to extend our affection for relatives outside our borders, that amendments, the coalition amendments, which were annulled by three quarters of the coalition a few days later, were also adopted on the Internal Policy Committee. We do not agree and do not agree with the fact that part of the coalition was then forgotten in the corner. The other thing that bothers us is the arrangement or way of understanding repatriation and immigration. We felt that immigration and repatriation should be understood as a matter of concern, not as we try to reduce it in some special law. The Coalition Treaty advocates immigration and return of all, not trying to discriminate against anyone. The draft law before us, however, firstly reduces immigration, which is more general, to repatriation and repatriation, to that part of the other repatriation that concerns state organisation and financial assistance, which concerns countries in crisis, thus reducing to crisis repatriation, is incorporated into this law. We do not agree with this either, but this limit is neither the limits of this government, this is the limitation of the past, from the resolution adopted in 2002, and it is already there, and now the government is simply summarizing these weaknesses. We judge that immigration must be understood as what is more than repatriation and repatriation than what is more than crisis repatriation. We are also disturbed by the argument of the government or the proposaler why it does not accept our willingness to open up the return of immigration. They say that this causes ambiguity and makes it unnecessary to expand and open the door. What is very vague about this, and what is wrong with spreading? If we are more likely to reject those relatives who are not at home within our borders, what is bad about it, we cannot explain it. Gold, not when the government is at the same time a tarnit on demographics, a tarnit about how to attract young, educated, successful people who can help develop our country. Since time is pursuing, there are still some things we do not agree with, but we feel that there would be mistakes if we now renounced the support of the government in its entirety due to individual non-conclusions. However, we express our readiness that the amendments that are being tabled, one part of the amendments that extend or define immigration, that part that discusses the potential for greater impact on the recruitment of emigrants and other organisations, and that part of the amendment that believes that it is not essential that missions play such a very strong role in giving opinions, this part of the amendments will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Friday has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you! Although it is necessary to welcome and commend the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has prepared and forwarded the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders, in late and far behind. This is, after all, Article 5 of the Constitution, and this is constitutional matter, which we are merely perfecting by means of this law. Slovenia and the position of Slovenians outside its borders remains a constitutional category. It is interesting that all the attempts to regulate this matter so far have come from the types of opposition then, from the types of opposition members at the time, and all the legal initiatives have come across deaf ears. The law is also important because Slovenians in neighbouring countries and around the world would not feel that this country is on the road, that the burden of budgeting for their cultural, sports and other activities is necessary. Here people simply need to know that in Slovenia and Slovenians in their homeland they are in joy and pride. Our minorities and Slovenians around the world are the rich bond between Slovenia and the countries where they live. Certainly they must not be a problem, but we must take advantage of this as well as a wealth. Unfortunately, this does not always happen everywhere. Our country, the Republic of Slovenia, has thus far failed to take advantage of this potential that Slovenians have given us around the world. And that's what the speech was about today. Who better to know the mentality, the functioning of Austria, Germany, Austrians and Germans than the Slovenian minority in Austria and Styria and who would know Italians better than our minority in Italy or the spirit of Latin America than Slovenians living across the ocean? And we haven't been able to take advantage of this wealth until now. It is true that when Slovenia was included in the European Union, we expected it to be easier to talk with neighbouring countries where Slovenian indigenous minorities live. Unfortunately, there is no overstated progress here for once, but more so because neighbouring countries are avoiding dialogue in this area. Of course, we can't get past the eternal theme in Austria's Koroška, it's topographical inscriptions. During this time, a number of amendments have been adopted through the parliamentary procedure, which have improved this proposal, and I am sure that this will be the case today. In these months, as has been said here, we have also had quite a linguistic exercise around immigration and repatriation. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the repatriation referred to in this law will be relatively small, but this law must also offer this option. This dilemma between immigration and repatriation, which is not a matter of linguistic prestige or purism, is well resolved in the amendment of the coalition, which we also propose. In addition to repatriation within the meaning of this Act, the Republic of Slovenia also supports other forms of immigration and return of Slovenian expatriates and natives and their descendants. Those who could be classified as repatriated are relatively few, more displaced, more natives and their descendants who would like to return to Slovenia. And for these too, the doors of the Republic of Slovenia must be more open, more than ever. The SDS Group will be happy to support this law, and I hope it will be adopted by a great consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Davorin Terčon has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Also welcomed are the representatives of the office! The law on the status of Slovenians, which we accept today, has a long beard. The legislative procedure is also relatively long. I must say that many gilded and high words have been spoken throughout the process of adopting this law. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we expected certain actions to follow these gilded words. With regard to this law, which has a beard and whose proposals have already been put forward in previous mandates, it must be said that the last proposal has been slightly better, that there has also been a general debate in the context of the first hearing, that unfortunately our proposal has not been taken into account, in order to make a public presentation of the opinions that virtually all the amendments proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia have been rejected. Now, before the last act, we hope that at least some of the essential amendments that we are proposing today will be taken into account, otherwise we will not be able to support the law. Not because of any political opposition speculation, but because the voice of those to whom this law was intended was not taken into account. Mr Marjan Pipp, whom I also welcome, had a substantively comprehensive performance here, said some of the essential concerns that Slovenian coordination has in place until the adoption of this law. We would like to accept, as has been the practice now, the materials that regulate our relations with our fellow citizens abroad with consensus. That seems to be an important point to be made. This country has several areas where good is needed, and practice teaches us that in the past the widest possible consensus of all political parties in this Parliament has been sought. If I focus only on some, this National Assembly has already adopted two resolutions dealing with the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in place and also with the matter of Slovenians around the world, and we can then see that the broadest political consensus has been reached. If all the amendments are voted on today, we will unfortunately have to find out that there will be no consensus, and this will also be a new precedent in Slovenian parliamentary history, and this will not be a good way to regulate this matter and for the relations that this country has to its fellow citizens abroad. If I only mention some of the circuits. Some refer primarily to our amendment. For the first time, we want the law to be a little more European, so we have proposed amendments to Article 1. We think that our amendment is quality, that it is also better than the one proposed by the Social Democrats in 3a. an article which has been rejected in the previous reading, although we can find that the amendment is also in 3a. a step towards making the law more European and less romantic towards the 19th century, the awakening of the nations, which deals with Slovenia, as has been the case in history. This seems important to me because the terms of the foreigner, the expatriate, the home in the future are likely to take different forms. The history of emigration, border drawing, we hope, at least so, the condition of the European Union, and then, in the future, we anticipate that we will talk about Slovenians abroad who will not go abroad for economic or political reasons only, but other reasons, educational, scientific work, exchanges, etc. will also have to be governed by law. That's the first problem. However, our amendments to Article 19 seem essential to us. We all say that we want to have a state-of-the-art attitude towards our fellow citizens, that we want to treat them as partners, as subjects, but that there is no spirit or hearing about it in Article 19. We have made concrete proposals, but unfortunately they have been rejected, so we really hope that there will be some hearing at this hearing, and that it will be taken into account what the representatives of the inter-ministerial coordination have said, and what we propose to be the creator of the composition of the council, the advisory body of the Prime Minister, and that this composition will also be somewhat balanced because it remains if this amendment is not adopted, that no one knows on what criterion this Council for Slovenia or the Council has formed. Again, 6 representatives are Slovenians from Austria, 4 from Koroška, 2 from Austria Stajerska, 4 representatives from Italy, 2 from Hungary, and 2 from Croatia, but we all know that the largest Zambian community is the Slovenian Zambian community in Italy. We have not even observed the government's definition of amendments, and this has been established by no means. If we understand that every community in the country should have its own representative, then we would understand that we should all have one at a time, regardless of size, so as not to count. If we understand that there are other criteria, then at least in terms of number, representatives should follow. It seems from outer space that it doesn't know what the criteria are for this to be established. Further comment, so I sincerely hope that the amendment to Article 19 will be adopted, our further comments are exactly as was the second-reading speech, and today some have touched on the deadline for immigration and repatriation. We do not see any valid reason for assisting in organising return, including financially, to close only for those who once moved from Slovenia and to prevent other Slovenians from doing so. Although the amendment proposed by the coalition parties is one step ahead, it is beautiful. No one knows if we're going to have such a marriage, what it means and so on. That is why we do not feel comfortable, especially since we know how borders were drawn, how someone stayed behind the border, and what were the reasons for our relatives moving out or going abroad. And the third important component is our proposal to end the immigration home. As has already been said, this home underestimates our relatives too much, smells too much in some other homes, and it would be right to find modern forms of assistance to relatives when they could or would like to live with us, either as a financial aid to stay, or as an aid to the ambientization, cultural placement and education of Slovenians returning to our homeland. There's something already missing and all the articles aren't open. Marriage could be better if there was a will. Let me mention only the provisions relating to co-financing of media, only printed media, as if we were not living in the age of electronic media. We don't understand this provision, it's out of date. Let us mention Article 20 of the competence of the Council, where there is an opportunity for corrections and a greater role for representatives of substitution, this opportunity is already delayed because this Article cannot be amended, and let us also mention what has already been said by representatives of the provisions relating to financial assistance to our fellow Members. Unfortunately, as I said, some things are already delayed, but some can be substantially corrected. We hope that the coalition will be able to make an effort and listen in particular to those to whom the law is intended to end this democracy of itself when we all say that we are for consensus, for state relations, for partnership with our fellow citizens; we accept, decide and accept only what we believe is necessary. A poor marriage trip is if it is already predicted that it will have to be changed and that the essentials will not be changed. We too predict that it will have to be changed. We hope that our constructive proposals will be adopted, in particular because of those to whom the law is intended, and here we say that we want to adopt a law with consensus and that we do not want to impose, but let us take into account, once again, the opinion of those whom we invite to the national assembly, which we are listening to, and we do not take them into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Social Democrats' Group will support the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders. Taking care of Slovenians in place and around the world is, as we have pointed out here many times, a constitutional category. Article 5 of the Constitution explicitly states that the State is concerned about indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries for Slovenian expatriates and locals and promotes their contacts with the country. The second paragraph of this Article provides that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship may enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia, which should be provided for by special law. The Slovenian encyclopedia, as well as other sources, states that almost 500,000 Slovenes live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, which is 20% of all Slovenes and Slovenes, about 60,000 of whom have Slovenian citizenship. The criteria that lead us to this enviable number of half a million Slovenians are origin, mother tongue, language of communication, as well as just awareness of ethnicity. In addition to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, relations with Slovenians outside its borders are governed by 28 regional laws. In addition, two resolutions of the 1996 and 2002 National Assembly, which were adopted unanimously in this Chamber. These are a resolution on the situation of Slovenian indigenous minorities in neighbouring countries and related tasks of state and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia and a resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. In addition, we have several other declarations and resolutions and a number of other documents and international agreements dealing with this issue. Among them is the resolution on the 2002 migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which promotes the immigration and return of Slovenians worldwide to their homeland. Therefore, even though we are only now adopting a roofing law on Slovenians, we cannot claim that this area has not been regulated. We can peacefully argue that the Republic of Slovenia has paid special attention to this issue all the time. Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia are an equivalent part of the Slovenian national body. That is why our country must lead state policy in this area and in principle support the activities of all Slovenian organisations in place and around the world, irrespective of political or religious affiliation. It is for this reason that all actions that, due to narrow political or party interests, would need to be avoided, should be brought into conflict between our fellow citizens in place and around the world. Unfortunately, to a certain extent this is still happening, which is not good. Our common desire is that the political upheaval, which is more responsible for the care of Slovenians in substitution and around the world, be definitively suppressed on the side of the track and withdrawn from the day-to-day policy. The concept of state policy must prevail against narrow party interests, for which, with greater or less success, the third mandate has already been sought by the National Election Commission for Relations with Slovenians both in place and in the world, which I believe should become the home labour force for this area. The Group of Social Democrats has tabled two amendments to Articles 3a and 75. The first government supports, the second one opposes. I suggest you support both of these amendments. Important to me are the additions of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia to the 19th article concerning the Council for Slovenians in substitution. With regard to immigration and repatriation, however, I believe that this is sufficiently regulated by the amendment of the coalition to Article 70. In my opinion, it would be useful for the government coalition to support some amendments to the opposition, as this will give us more opportunity to adopt the law by consensus. More on individual amendments in the debate. Finally, the Social Democrats' Group will support the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u20	Good afternoon, honourable Members and honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished representatives of the Slovenians from the locals and other Slovenians around the world! In the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we are pleased to finally adopt a law regulating the relationship of the homeland with Slovenians in place and around the world. After 12 years of drafting such a law, we will finally move from a declaratory level to a concrete legal level, with a few exchanges or substantial exchanges of secretaries at the Office of Relations with Slovenians around the world and two resolutions. Although the law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders could be better, according to our parliamentary group, we will only have a roof law, which has also been drawn up by organizations of foreign Slovenians and Slovenians living elsewhere in the world. We are aware that the area of the Slovenian diaspora is very complex. There are many interests and factors in it, and many hopes and ambitions have been put into the drafting of the law. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that the law provides a legal basis for cooperation between mothers and foreigners and mother and Slovenians worldwide in areas where people are active already, and supports their further efforts such as the cultural field, education, preservation of Slovenian language, the field of science and higher education, economies. In doing so, it is a key legal provision that the financial resources for these needs are provided by special permanent items in the regular annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. With the adoption of the law, I hope that a process will begin in which the displaced part of the national body and the homeland will draw closer. In the New Slovenia Group, we are confident that the appointment of a minister without a licence for Slovenians around the world will also be very helpful, or only with the next mandate. In the process of enacting the law, the New Slovenia Group proposed extending the concept of repatriation, which was also adopted on the Committee. However, later analysis and interviews have shown that it is not clear enough to foresee the actual consequences of such an extended concept, so in this first step, as soon as possible, we are moving away from the broad meaning of the law, and we support the amendment to the 70th Article, which is beginning to expand this issue as we would like. For the reasons I mentioned earlier, we will not support the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats. As I have already mentioned, the law is not ideal for us, even in the first introductory presentation of the position we have said that we will stand for improving the conditions, especially for those who have and still want to acquire citizenship in the Republic of Slovenia. These are not yet sufficiently dealt with equally throughout the system, especially at a time when Slovenia is looking for solutions and its place in the world. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will continue to strive to improve the attitude towards our diaspora, and after the adoption of this law, to improve other laws relating to cooperation and co-existence between the homeland and the Slovenes beyond its borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Janez Kramberger on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, representatives of the Office, representative of the Slovenians in place and around the world, Mag. Pipp and Dr. Zorn, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In our parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law. I think we're kind of completing this work today, which started years ago. Only Bevk said that Slovenia has had all this time since the independent state, including the attitude towards Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia, both in place and in the world. This National Assembly has also adopted the laws governing these areas in previous mandates, adopted two resolutions, but it has not yet been able to pass the bill, and this will be a success for us, that is to say, this reference. Of course, taking up all the problems of eviction and homelessness in one marriage is actually very difficult. We hear this somehow from the opinions of the groups. Look, there are various problems in housing and eviction, even in emigration itself there are various problems, people moving out in the 18th century, early 19, after World War II, we can't put these problems in the same box. But the Slovenian state wants to unify the Slovenian National Corps, with this law, the 500,000 Slovenes and Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia want to be included in a single national body through culture, science, economy. I think that this law is the real basis on which this can be done. Of course, a few questions are open. There is a lot of talk about Article 19, about the composition of the world, especially about the composition of the Council for the Slovaks, but you know, we need to find that the surrogate is, therefore, a legal entity, and it is also their responsibility to organise themselves as well as their best interests, and to unify themselves in their desires. A respected magus. Pip here in his debate directed his vision of how Slovenia should unify, put some kind of pressure on the minority to unify. If Slovenia had allowed it in a very harsh way, it would probably not have been good. Here you are before this challenge when you create a world that will be worthy of your representation against the queen. And I think that this can be done with good faith. So, colleagues and colleagues, here we are! Our parliamentary group will be happy to support the law, and we will also support article 3a and article 70 of the proposed amendment in the third reading, because we believe that these two amendments will contribute to the improvement of the law, of course only in some way will the implementation of the law show any change that will be necessary in the future. The fact is, too, that a very good marriage can be badly implemented if there is no political will, a law that is slightly worse, and can be very well implemented with good will and political will. Thank you very much. So we'll support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before we proceed, I would like to say that Mrs Maria Pozsonec will be absent today from 3:30 p.m. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, both representatives of the Slovenians from the estate and the world! A number of interesting matters were heard from previous debaters. Given that we have set ourselves the task of drafting this law in the previous term, I would like to talk about some things. Today it was said that there was a solid legal basis for and concern for Slovenians in place and around the world. But it is only right that we remember some historical events. The resolution adopted in 1996 stated, in its fourth, third chapter of IV, in the second paragraph, that, to that end, the Minister without a licence would be appointed, proposing a policy of cooperation with Slovenian indigenous minorities in place and so on, and responsible for its implementation. From 1996 to 2004, the political option that adopted this resolution, of course with the support of the opposition at the time, had authority for 8 years. In eight years nothing happened, so it was rather cynical when one of the previous debaters said that this law had long been rolling in previous mandates following the procedure. That's just not true. The first draft of the law came to this Parliament on 8 April 2004. Today we are a slightly lower number in April, April 4, 2006. That means not two years. It is, of course, necessary to say that this law was drafted by the commission for Slovenians in place and around the world led by the then opposition Member, whose law, of course, was strongly opposed by the then foreign minister, together with the ruling coalition, and therefore the one he was invested did not receive parliamentary support. However, today’s law we adopt in the third reading, for which I am truly very happy, is not significantly different from that of the day. Of course, that makes me so much more happy. Some details have been shed and, of course, this is good. Basically, I'm sure that the law is very good. I do not agree with the view that a bad law, even if well implemented, can also achieve good effects. This is not a bad law, it is indeed one of the better laws, colleagues and colleagues, in view of the changes in legislation that is, of course, happening from day to day and from month to month. I agree with some of the comments, as already mentioned in previous debaters, particularly in financing. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, we must no longer allow such a way as has been the case in the past, in a state of finance. "We," Republic of Slovenia, give taxpayer money. Here you go, take it and share it, then give us peace! That's not what this is about. It used to be that kind of policy. It's not that today. It is a matter of maintaining an identity, it is a matter of maintaining a reputation and, of course, in all areas of public life, there will be much more to be done. The funding system when projects are financed when an activity is financed, when it is financed precisely to maintain the vocabulary, is the real funding system. Colleagues and colleagues, it is not the right funding system to get - Mr Pipp said: duality, some would even want to be a trinity - to finance such faults in neighbouring countries that embody a picture such as the one that has been circulating or has been in this fold of the European Parliament, Schussla and Heider together these days. Of course, the problem is that from the Slovenian taxpayers' money we also finance those who serve it, who are paid from it - not for the preservation of Slovenia's Slovenia's identity, but for the destruction because they actually worked all 60 years. Some, of course, are not that old, but still. I agree with my colleague Bevk that it is necessary to make a cross over such a way of financing, which separated both by faith, by belonging and so on. I agree, and therefore we probably agree that the only thing is right, the funding system after projects and after content. This is what it is and, of course, it is right to pay much more attention to it, and it is right, thank God, that we have also received with this law a minister without a licence who will be at the government level. Colleagues and colleagues, in 1990, when he reigned in this state of Demos until 1992, we had a minister, Dr. Janez Dular and Dr. Jank Prunku, to do so. Imagine if Demos had been in power for another year, we'd have a law about Slovenians all over the world. I am convinced that some who have also written and worked this time have already worked and lived, burned just for the Slovenian community, for the vocabulary, to preserve those values that we lost with 100,000 Slovenes when they had to leave to preserve, which was often the most precious, life, self and their children. Some predictions are that if some amendments are not adopted, they will not support the law. These are, of course, decisions made by individuals or political groups. It is true, however, that most of the amendments were from the former coalition, which had 12 years of power in its hands and could have written a law exactly as it would have wanted, but there was no political will. This is why the situation of Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries is catastrophic today. Catastrophe. Let's see what happens to Slovenians in Use, see what happens to topography and respect for Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty and so on. Let us see what happens to five years ago the protection law adopted in Italy and so on. Nothing! But the Republic of Slovenia, I am sure that it will only be able to do so by having a minister, will have a responsible man at the government level to change these things. If you think it's a flaw, say, in the financing of the press, it's not possible. When we wrote and did that, we knew what we were doing. Nothing was random, nothing was released. National television is also under other legislation, as colleague Bevk mentioned - 28 regional laws we have - so according to the rest of the legislation is also the task of national television, national media, to take care of this area. To this day, there have been some shows that have been "jumping" and of course they haven't. They have never implemented the adopted law on visibility and soundness, the so-called Law of Ivo. And, of course, why not? Yes, because those who ran politics did not demand that it be one of the priorities that national television must achieve and peak! That's why it didn't happen. As far as the funding for our unemployed, repatriated and refugees is concerned, it has also been very subtle. We were aware when this law was being written that we could not and should not give too much to someone, because it could also have a negative impact on those who give it to those who go to work in this country for 60 or 70 thousand. Of course, we kept an eye on it and had things in mind. I agree that when this law is implemented, there will be a need to keep an eye on the fact that there will be no more so-called separation. This government is responsible, this office and the Secretary of State are responsible for the implementation of the coalition treaty and no one can afford to work on their own head in certain ways that they have already survived. However, the Coalition Treaty clearly states, and this programme is a government programme of this coalition to seek the common representation of Slovenians in substitution. Together with the Slovenes in place, he must strive and support to ensure that the Slovenian identity, the Slovenian language, is maintained as best as possible. We cannot or must not allow only 20% of the funding in the music school in Austria for the headship of children in education to equal programmes for German-speaking children. And so on and so forth. The gap between individuals who are, of course, must be crossed over and transferred to a system that will lead in this direction, as set out in the Coalition Treaty. Unfortunately, there again shows that not completely a coalition treaty is being followed, but also through the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world, we will take this into account and request reports and explanations, what and how this policy is taking place to the Slovenians in place and around the world. Those of us who wrote the law did not think of a home for Slovenians who would come to Slovenia, of a home that would be built in the middle of White Ljubljana, some home for repatriated persons and so on. No, it was meant that through this, funds would be made available either to help relatives or to rebuild some schools that remained and are now failing, etc., throughout the country or some parishes, etc. We also talked with the Roman Catholic Church - they are ready to make their facilities available, etc. It's a temporary override to get people to take care of what's necessary. And, bureaucracy - that doctors and professors and scientists will regulate their diplomas and get their consents after a year and a half. That's unacceptable. This has to change fundamentally, not that it's some kind of refugee home or whatever I know. You misinterpret those who misinterpret it. It wasn't meant to be, and it wasn't meant to be, and that's not how it's going to be done. I'm sure it's a summary of that or so I'll say, this coalition has been doing nonsense, too, but thank God, this nonsense has had a short life span and it's seen it very quickly and it's changed that too. Today, the radio forecaster in Slovenia 1 reported that many amendments tabled by the coalition were adopted in the second reading. That's not true. They were rejected in the vast majority, because thank God the time has come for so-called immigration, and the compensation for so-called immigration is summed up quite a good starting point in Article 70, so the amendment of Liberal Democracy to Article 1 makes absolutely no sense. As far as the amendment to the 3rd Article of the Social Democrats is concerned, I can say this. This cannot affect legislation, the course of relations between countries outside Slovenia and Slovenians living abroad. In fact, this refers to legislation, to the minority living in this country, Hungarian and Italian, and it seems completely unnecessary to me and does not seem completely in the context. Otherwise, I do have a good amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 13, which I will also support, but the government does not support it, and I personally think it is good. With regard to the composition of the Council in Article 19, if there were, it would probably be best to change the number of members of the Council from Austria from six to four and that would be the best solution. If the amendment were in this direction, I would support it myself, but the Liberal Democracy did not put it in that form. I don't know if this can be arranged; it might even make sense. All I'd say is this. There were indeed many demands, smart proposals, good proposals, constructive proposals, taken into account by Slovenians from place and by Slovenians around the world. What a small thing to change, but they say: No thing is so good that it can't be better. Colleagues and colleagues, this time we will get a great marriage, and this upgrade will also be possible in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished Secretary of State, the distinguished representative of the Slovenians in exchange and throughout the world, is also greeted by all those who follow us outside the debate! In previous discussions, I have highlighted my position on this law in particular when I have answered the question of what will the adopted law bring better than the practice of both foreign Slovenians and Slovenians around the world. I cannot help but recall Mr Pavšić's call for us to count, not to count, and at the same time to call on Mr Magi. Pippa, however, should consider whether Slovenians are placed at the heart of this law in place and around the world, or whether it is a law that governs the state’s relationship with people. Here I should say that, in this respect, the previous resolutions have been put by foreigners or Slovenians around the world at the centre, and they have already been mentioned in the title. In this law, the matter is reversed and talks about the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. Therefore, it would suggest reconsidering some things, even though the opening part of the Law after the marriage text has been published in the Official Journal, I would like to reiterate that there is quite some confusion in the opening part. This introductory phrase, subject to this law, is the legal position of the social group, which is formally referred to by the common term "Slovakia outside the Republic of Slovenia" and is scattered throughout the world, is the subject of my re-examination and I say that it stems from a fundamentally flawed premise. Indeed, not all Slovenians around the world are scattered, it is two fundamentally different groups of Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia, and these are the ones we call foreigners, and they are really those marked by the term either expatriates or residents. This is because I find it difficult to combine two different historical positions, political positions and legal positions in a single marriage text. In fact, Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia each have legal status in their country of residence. By this law, we want to regulate new legal status or additional legal status if we allow them to obtain our citizenship. Thus, to me, the basic starting point is the current legal status and the question is, what can the views of the new law be obtained? And then a number of questions are raised as to what this law actually brings about a new one compared to everything that has already been regulated in various other laws. Of course, it leaves me somewhat uncertain or discontented also that it is difficult to determine the number of Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia because the criteria are different or uneven, by which we actually define someone as Slovenian. I think it is very good that members of the Slovenian community in the border states of Slovenia, I think of Italy, Austria, Hungary, Croatia do not agree to the count, because it seems to me that this is not essential, but when we want to define someone as a Slovenian, I wonder whether the criteria are so very fluid or not, however, the two basic criteria by which Slovenia can be defined: consciousness of belonging and language. I mean, what exactly am I justifying this with? If I assess the position of the current problems that members face in place, the issue of the protection law for Slovenians in Italy and there are bilingual tables in Koroška, I am talking only about the most observable problems, both of them are related to the issue of the use of language in its language, in its written version. Of course, it is also possible to say that origin is what determines us, but you know, originating can sometimes be a problem. The origin of national consciousness in itself is not yet decided, but I do not want to provoke by who is of Slovenian origin or who actually feels Slovenian and whether Slovenian is considered to be its mother tongue or only a language of communication. I would like to ask this further question. Is the Republic of Slovenia a country that protects indigenous Slovenian national communities? Is it the Republic of Slovenia that protects values, the national values of all those who do not live in the Republic of Slovenia? I would like to say earlier that Slovenia is obliged to create the conditions for those who are considered Slovenians to live anywhere, these values, which are linked to Slovenian identity, to develop, maintain, demonstrate and develop, and therefore it would be good for this law to have more emphasis on cooperation not only with those institutions that regulate the legal situation of Slovenians, but also those that care for scientific and research work, but not on verbal support and material support for scientific and research institutions outside Slovenia's borders, but also on greater support for those institutions that develop everything that Slovenia has set us as Slovenians. Here I have observed only a great desire in this law to stress the importance of official, bureaucratic structures, but not of those just mentioned, it is scientific, research, whether it is the Institute of Fran Ramovš or universities or the Institute of Nationality or anything that helps to develop awareness and knowledge and knowledge of these things. In the introductory part, I have noticed in quite a few places the formulations that show that our knowledge and behavior are unfortunately not always strong enough and subtle enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u27	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Personally and in our parliamentary group, we have followed many stages of the creation and finalization of the proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenians outside its borders, with great interest and desire. This is a matter of great importance for Slovenians, and it can benefit from the implementation of not only formal but important constitutional provisions on special care for Slovenians around the world, which our countries must care for, but mainly contribute to strengthening the awareness of the Slovenians of Slovenia, to enable and assist their cultural, social, social life, by cooperating with the countries in which they live, by means of diplomatic and other relations, to try to establish appropriate conditions to ensure not only their formal equality as citizens of these countries, but also their specific rights as members of one nationality, as Slovenians say. All of these are extremely difficult tasks and additional tasks specifically defined by this Act, including in the form of specific incentives given by the State when one of the Slovenians, after birth or in later generations of immigration, is seeking, mainly for economic reasons, but also for other reasons, to permanently move to the country, or even at the time of his stay in place to provide certain forms of incentives for him to cooperate with our institutions in the direction of education and so on. In short, very complex matter, and I am sure it is good that we will adopt it today - I will support the law myself - and at the same time I am convinced that the content and relations that we will regulate with this law will require that our competent government office, the local organisation, the World Slovenian Congress, our societies in the overseas and elsewhere closely monitor the implementation of this law and see what is truly good in it and which gives full results, where we need to upgrade and supplement very sensitive and careful law in order to ensure what we all want undisputedly. I think we have noted some of these issues in our discussions so far. We have heard representatives of foreigners and Slovenians around the world who are happy to adopt the law, but not in every detail already satisfied with all the solutions proposed, and this also obliges us to monitor and upgrade the law and its implementation separately. But it is also likely that in each of us there is a smoldering of their own performances, which are not fully incorporated into the legal text. We, Comrade Bevk said this on behalf of the parliamentary group, have tabled two additional proposals. One was considered appropriate by the government and it seems to us that it will only be a little closer to defining the role and purpose of this law. The second, I agree, is formal and the government does not support it. That he does not support it, but I do not understand because it is written exactly as the government representative at our first amendment to the previous meeting said - no, this cannot be determined at once by a decision, namely the rights to be given because the competent ministries will decide on it. And that's all that's written in the amendment right now, and I really don't understand that it's unacceptable. At the same time, it is true that this will not make the law significantly better or completely unacceptable, because it is only a precision that I believe would be useful and resolve some doubts. The government, for what reason, I do not know, I hope that the government representative would explain this further, felt that this was not useful. If she did this because the law in terms of jurisdiction and rights was not sufficiently clear, then it is not good, because we wanted to make it only clearer, because the rights given by law were not given to each individual, but given in principle as an opportunity, each individual must be provided with concrete decisions and this must be the content of a formal decision and in this regard we also wanted to design our amendment. So we believe that the decision to adopt the law today will be important. I think that the fundamental dilemmas of the possibility of different situations, including those returning, are also resolved, and it is good that this is not about unifying rights and situations. I think that the current solutions that the government has put together after the last meeting, or that we have incorporated into the law together, after the ruling coalition has also found that over-precision of solutions would not benefit the law itself, that even at this point it is possible to express some fundamental satisfaction for the solutions adopted and that the law will realize the purpose we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u29	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It is obvious, therefore, that the matter to be regulated by law is very difficult, which requires an interdisciplinary approach, requires knowledge and compliance with relevant international instruments such as conventions, declarations and resolutions and various bilateral or multilateral treaties. Of course, matter is also politically highly sensitive, and this proves to be very clear throughout the drafting of this law. There is a great deal of confusion when it is said here that the previous governments did not have the political will to adopt this law. It is particularly inappropriate to point such arrows at certain parliamentary parties alone. We know that, apart from the Slovenian National Party, all other parliamentary parties today have been involved in previous governments in different periods. Today, it has been emphasized that the current government is so eager to adopt this law. It is therefore very unusual that the proposaler has not been more coordinated, for example with representatives of foreign organisations, that he has failed to take into account, in setting up and drawing up a Council for Slovenians in place, proposals coming from alternate species that would seek to balance the representation of Slovenian organisations in place and their greater equality in doing so. It is not unusual, however, but it is quite reckless that the government rejects all the amendments it has tabled, such as the LDS Group of Members. Although we have been very well-intentioned in proposing amendments that would clarify more precisely the individual concepts used by the law and which would contribute to the drafting of such a law, which will be more modern, so to speak today. We want a law that takes into account the fact that with Slovenia's entry into the European Union, into the Council of Europe, and if you want the breakup of Yugoslavia and Slovenia's independence, a new situation has arisen. We would also like to avoid needlessly burdening this law with the sadness of the unrepentant, if you wish, ideological differences. Some of the provisions in the law are those which favour certain groups of displaced persons and who wish, for example, to assign to specific church missions in other countries the powers they cannot have in a modern country. While the proposaler has not worked so hard to create the most harmonised and modern law, he also points out that the ruling coalition has rejected all our proposals to hold a broader debate on the proposed solutions. With the amendments of the LDS, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are giving you the opportunity to do something more in the direction of getting to a more modern and acceptable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u31	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u32	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that speaks of at least two groups of Slovenians, one which, by some settlement logic, has remained outside Slovenian borders, is said not because of their own will, and the other, who have gone around the world for various reasons. For that reason, the question is whether it is good for a single law to do so. We have decided that one law will regulate this, although I must say that things have not been as messy as they say or as they may be heard several times today, but they have been arranged differently. I am particularly disturbed by the drafting of this law, that even in the third reading so many comments, concerns, reflections and I think that if we went to the fourth and fifth readings, the matter would be repeated. This is not exactly about the quality of the law on the one hand, but also about very complex issues. In mid-March, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia tabled 21 amendments, 7 of which are, say, substantively important and the rest coordinated. None of these, though all very well-meaning, mainly directed outwards, are called Slovenians around the world, not from the inside, here, to us, have been rejected, as if this law were written for themselves, for the Slovenians, who are in the homeland, and not for those who are out of the country. The law also has two speeches in a way. One speech is a speech that takes into account the current situation, including the current possible more modern views on the issue of eviction, resettlement, housing, and the second speech, which is very, very much reversed in the past and really judges there in, say, rebirthal times, in the 19th century. One is one that takes into account the emigration analyses of a different type in the early 20th century and the mid-20th century there in the 1960s, which is already alive today, because we have entered a larger community where things are different - so this part certainly does not focus on the future - and the other part that already takes into account it. These things are probably also the reason why we don't actually get to one, say, exact text. On the other hand, there is always talk of some unity between the Slovaks, the desired unity, the need for unity, and, on the other hand, we know exactly that these things are not, there is no need for them to be. Sometimes they live very different lives, and they're not that uniform, and they can perform together. It is probably worth talking more about plurality, because it is in some ways a wealth, not a single SZDL type that somehow wants to be prescribed. We are engaged, and there have been many of these linguistic issues, or I do not know any concerns at different times. Of course, this was the most evident when we talked about repatriation and immigration. I still think it would be better to talk only about immigrants, regardless of why they are moving. Repatriation, I think, is very small. At the same time, it will also cause problems, as we will continue to have to explain to others what this means to us. So this is the term that says that people are being repatriated when a country takes them in another country, it's interstate. We are giving a new definition, which we have made very complicated after all, and now it will have to be explained. Mr Pukšič also explained earlier that home for return is not home, but now means something else. So this means we can live now, some money, I don't know what it's all about. Then it's supposed to be written down. Home for return probably means what it means to all people, and it's obvious that now we're going to have to rediscover a new definition of what home means. If we're going to make this world so complicated, then I have to ask myself first what language we're speaking here. Is that even Slovenian? Is that something now that everyone else thinks what the poet meant when he wrote it? He probably meant what he had to bring from the store, but we're not gonna write that. And also the legislator, what did he mean when he wrote "home"? I don't know what he meant. But of course, I'm always interested in what was written down. Another point, of course, is that Parliament will have to watch very much how this law is implemented, but very precisely and perhaps more closely than in other laws, is the attitude of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to all these issues. This was marked very much, even in today's performance by the most zealous coalition advocate of this law, because he did not want to name this former and current minister, not even by name and surname. So ignorance for ignorance. It is true, but it obliges us, of course, that if this law is passed, we will have to look very closely at what is happening to it and whether what has been written is being done, or whether what was meant is being carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u33	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you again very much for your word. I live along the border, and in some ways I imagine that I have a slightly more acute sense of minorities. Sometimes, or many times, the Koreans across the border are bigger Slovenians than we are here. Korosci on both sides of the state border we have a common history, which has sometimes also warmed us quite a bit, so our souls are quite related, often deplorable, very sensitive to injustice, especially very conscious, it is Slovenian. And the quality of life on these Slovenian edges, on these Slovenian edges is worse, both abroad and abroad. The Slovenes in the Czech Republic are sensitive to assimilation, various policies and other policies, and we have experienced this side of the border in recent years a lot of macho relations between the country, that is, the centres to Koroška. Due to an exceptional consciousness in some way of fanatical resistance, the Slovenians could have survived in Austrian Koroška in these circumstances, which is during the Nazi era and, of course, in recent years, this is at the time of the current Baltic policy of Jörg Heider. Indeed, in these years minority bureaucracy, both in Austria, in Austria and in Italy, has also become quite rich, often lacking a common language, and all of this is unfortunate to the detriment of both minorities. New funding, which is also defined in this law or this law gives extensions for the new financing of Slovenians around the world and in place, will, hopefully, contribute to more transparent financing and, above all, to the effective financing of Slovenians living outside Slovenia. In my opinion, it is good that this law also gives an appropriate place to the National Assembly Committee for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide. Let us recall that, in the previous term, this commission has not acted for half a year, which, of course, shows the machete attitude of the former ruling elites towards this issue. In the future, however, we should in some way consolidate the management of the Slovenian office around the world, because we know that the management of this office has changed for a year. This, of course, did not have much effect on the stability of the operation or stability of the policy towards the Slovenes in place and around the world. Of course, I also support the establishment in the future of an institute of a minister without a ticket to take care of Slovenians in place and around the world, for two reasons. The first, which is perhaps less important, is that Slovenians simply want to be in place and around the world of ministers. This has been demonstrated through these broad debates that we have had in this House and beyond. Secondly, because there is hope that this status of minister will somehow contribute to the better position of Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this debate alone, in part, I will respond to the text and the solutions in the marriage, in the second part of course, to what has already been said here today. I also see the purpose of the parliamentary debate, as well as the adoption and possible modification of decisions, in that we listen to each other. From this point of view, I must say that I do not believe that all those who say that this is a historical event concerning the treatment of Slovenians around the world and in place are very serious. It's not the last thing that shows a view of the hall. If we are still accustomed to having Members allocate their time in their own way, it seems extremely unusual to me that neither the representative of the Slovenians in exchange nor in the world for which she worked is particularly exceptional for this situation. I don't think it's necessary to be nice here, but especially truthful. I believe, Mr Ziherl, that they are somewhere else, but in this case it would be very good, even because of this material, to sit in a prestigious place in Parliament, to demonstrate our and shared will to deal with these things together. It is not the same sitting on the balcony and in the hall and having the same opportunity to speak in the Parliamentary Chamber or to write in the newspaper. Surely all this debate, no matter what happened in the 15 years, is a step forward. I agree with that. If we are trying to settle matters with the law, it is different than if we introduce solutions into individual laws, in some partial decrees or in a resolution. From this point of view, we can say that this is a step forward. At the same time, I must say that I note that, from the point of view of seeking a broader consensus, there is an agreement between the people who decide on it, and also with the people concerned, that is a step backwards. The agreement that these are good solutions is smaller than the agreement on the declaration. We may wonder why that is, but it would have caused the so-called fire in the roof again. Some are just, I will say, to this extent unwaited and to this extent convinced of their right that they consider the lawfulness of some of their ideas to be significantly better than the achievement of an agreement, and that is, generally speaking, a bad thing in this. In these introductory presentations, we have also heard some things with which I think we need to be politicised. Mr Pipp legitimately advocated the need for policy unification. He talked about the fact that we have an unnecessary and ineffective duality at the moment and that Slovenia also maintains it with its policy. This probably refers to the situation from where it comes, it is said, in Koroška, because of course we would not hear such a thing from the Slovenians in Italy with some unanimous agreement. Secondly, "we as a minority are not immune to destructive thinking, behaviour and double employment". So we can understand this as an invitation to reorganise, count, and see within a minority who can represent a minority once in Austria, for the second time in Italy, for the third time elsewhere. What is surprising is that to some extent you are concerned with him is shared by a fellow Bevk who speaks differently about these things. I don't know if I should take this as a sign of this partnership, which is indicated, or as some misunderstanding of the actual reality that Slovenians live in different countries and countries. Boris Pahor for this marriage says what we have heard here today, that the country is primarily looking at its interests, and we minorities are really the pendant. In his relationship with the Slovenians in exchange, Prešeren’s Labrat, Lipus, also spoke in the past year. What also Boris Pahor, who is certainly the age of these fights for Slovenian language, tells us about Slovenian culture. That it is not enough to argue and share customers, but that it is especially necessary to be aware of the common destiny, of the history that has divided us, of the reasons for this history, and that only then can we understand things. If we listen to him more precisely, then you will see that he is at the heart of talking about the situation of the Slovenians in Italy, his criticism is that we are trying, together with the Italians, to forget the history that has plagued the Slovenians most of the injustices, which is a period of fascism. I wouldn't sell it from here on out. If we are not aware of this, then it is difficult to understand certain consequences that have led to divisions and it is also difficult to understand the policy of one country and another in its relations and also in that conflict that affects minorities. On the contrary, I am convinced from Mr Pippa that it is necessary to take Slovenians in all their distribution, in all their diversity, and that it is very embarrassing to force them into any monolithic form, except in what they can agree on. Just like my colleague Friday, I come from the outskirts of the Slovenian state and I am familiar with these things. What we could have learned from our cousins in Italy was that they could have been Slovenians, regardless of whether they were divided into societies of different orientations, and regardless of whether they had elected their representatives in different parties. These really kept them alive in a vital life. We've learned plurality from them, now we're trying to dictate some kind of forced unity. Do we not have enough of our own history in the matrix to know that this actually has disastrous side effects? So much for that. What can we do for our replacement? If we read the law and listen to certain, elevated colleagues here, it seems that the most important thing is that we have a minister in particular in charge of this area. If that's the case, why don't we have him now? If it was possible to recast the government law at night when this coalition took place, later to install a famous development ministry, which will probably be renamed the Ministry of the New York Partnership, it would be possible to do so if the coalition really meant it at this point. I don't think that by doing all this, I want to show with this debate that no one really thinks by saying that this is a key element. I myself see significantly larger tasks in the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. If foreign policy were different, if it were at the heart of its interest when it deals with Italy, Austria, Croatia and, say, the Hungarian minority, then the problems would be significantly less. For our self-confidence and also for the development of the national community, it would be more important to make a more decisive representation of the application of the rules in Austria, to hold a tribute to the people who are striving for it. Doesn't look like it today. Unfortunately, we can say that even over the decades this has never been the priority of Slovenian foreign policy. As far as Italy is concerned, the situation is essentially very similar. Not the Minister, not the President of the State, and if you want an exception, but the Prime Minister, no one really puts this at the heart of politics, not the protection law, not the issues of those laws that start the peace treaty and open the whole debate on this, about the optants, about potential new citizens and so on. This means that if we want to redefine, I will end my relationship with the foreigners, not only must we adopt this law, but we must redefine the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia in particular. Let me conclude with the words of the already quoted Pahor who says he does not understand why our foreign policy is so flimsy in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u37	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Government Representative with Fellow Workers, distinguished Slovenian representative from the world of Dr. Zorn, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Slovenians and Slovenians in place and around the world! Initially, I would like to say that, when I consider this law, I have a strong feeling, especially when I think about the many genuine relations and ties I have with Slovenians around the world and in the place. Slovenian emigrants and foreigners must be grateful to the homelands that have received and given shelter and bread. Heart culture led them to organize themselves within Slovenian societies, Slovenian institutions and Slovenian parishes. And that's what kept the vocabulary practically on all the continents of the world. That's where their children were born. Today, representatives of the third generation of emigrants come to Slovenia, for example, from Canada, which I particularly care about, and where I was fortunate enough to see that a great Slovenian heart beats beyond the borders of Slovenia. It's a lot bigger than home. Our ancestors and their ancestors were born in Slovenia, which left such a strong seal that after many years of eviction we meet and speak in the same language about our common things. I wonder what happened with the political will that has not yet been able to regulate relations with important parts of the Slovenian national body. This coalition has committed itself to regulating these relations. We are aware that Slovenians, in place and around the world, together with the Republic of Slovenia, make up a common Slovenian, cultural space. Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia are an equivalent part of the unified Slovenian nation, so we must support efforts to preserve the Slovenian identity, language, culture, cultural heritage and cultural growth among Slovenians outside the borders. Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia are a very important factor in strengthening cooperation with other countries, which should be taken into account by all Slovenian institutions in their work programmes. I claim that the Republic of Slovenia has a lot of reserves mainly in the area of economic cooperation with Slovenians in place and around the world. I am confident that today, with a large majority of the laws adopted, will strengthen our concern for Slovenians in place and around the world, and I hope that this concern will be an important integral part of Slovenian foreign policy. Let me conclude with the idea that a law can be broken, much harder to form, the most difficult to create a favourable environment and a favourable climate for the implementation of the law. Whatever assessment this law receives or will receive, it is upon us who sit here and on all those who will ever sit here, a great responsibility to create a favourable environment, a favourable climate for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of Slovenians in place and around the world. Let me begin by saying that I am among those who I am very happy to finally adopt this law. By means of this law, we send positive messages to the Slovenes both in place and in the world, and it has long been time for us to adopt such a law. And that is now whether this law is optimal or in certain circumstances it would be possible to do better. I think that, given the long beard and history, that there is evidence of what should be done to make the law acceptable to some political parties, that these allegations are not justified, is not correct. In this case, the opportunity was sufficient to present the law according to their taste, and according to their majority, it was also adopted and perhaps corrected today. I believe that if there were changes to the law on the table today, the final product could possibly be even better than what we are going to do today. When we look at the Slovenian estate and Slovenes around the world, it is high time to adopt this law and, as I said before, send this message that the mother is aware of the importance of the Slovenians and the importance of the Slovenian heart, as was said to be beating around the world, and that we treat these people as ambassadors of Slovenia in the world. In fact, I will only respond to what the LDS previously said was that they are in some way ultimately requiring a vote for this law by adopting their amendments. I think in the third reading it's kind of ulterior to put a little bit of frivolous. I also hope that Members will be able to realise that they will refrain from the guidance of their President, who has recently been very radical, dogmatic and so on, and will be aware of the extraordinary political importance of this law. If I can still understand or politically accept that this party is the only one who does not have such a serious attitude towards Slovenian development, to reform, to development strategy and to get off this train, I cannot understand this in this area. I can agree that Slovenia needs to change its policy towards the Germans, that it may have to be a little sharper and more determined in the future towards Slovenian neighbours, where minorities live, because the delay in these problems and the protection of the Slovenians is far too much. The reasons why it is not possible, say, in neighbouring Italy to implement the law on global protection of the Slovenian minority are unrealistic and have deeper political content. And to this deeper political content, Slovenia will have to respond more decisively in the future. As Boris Pahor referred to here today as the age of his views, I must say that I strongly agree with them as regards Slovenian politics in relation to Slovenians around the world and instead. I would also recommend that those who today refer to Boris Pahor also read his latest interview on Saturday evening, where he talks about the relationship of Slovenians in lieu of the Slovenian state, including on the issue of the military parade. This was very interesting to me, for I changed my relationship a little. In this interview, Boris Pahor reacts extremely strongly, unlike those who say that this somehow does not belong to national competitiveness, to strengthening pride and so on. I think that these highlights will also be a good help when we all decide together whether it is appropriate to celebrate the important anniversary of the Slovenian statehood in some special way. If I go back to this law again. I think it provides the basis for Slovenians to breathe better instead, rather in conjunction with the Slovenian state, that this passage on repatriation and return, immigration, will not only be a letter on paper, but that these matters will also be realized, that in the future we will be witnessing the opposite flows, as they were in the past, both for economic and political reasons. I wish that in Slovenia it would never happen again that Slovenia would drive Slovenian citizens across its borders and then actually 50, 60 years of political separation, which has happened in the past. I hope that this story is over forever, but of course I stress that, as I have already said, voting on this law depends on the message that we will send to the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u41	Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. You're giving up. Then Mr. Mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, a nice greeting to government representatives and representatives of Slovenian organisations around the world. First of all, I would like to respond to some of the evidence just heard - I think that we, unless I am mistaken, are here in Parliament on the legislative train. No one got off any train unless, of course, someone thinks that we abolished the Constitution in Slovenia after the initiative was given to the partnership for development. The understanding of some Members that when we propose in the third reading of the amendment that this is the opposite, I do not know what, with the legislative procedure or the procedure of democracy, I would simply like to remind these Members to look at what the Slovenian Constitution says about the role of the National Assembly. In this respect, we regret that there has not been sufficient consensus in this law, civil society and, above all, those to which this law applies have not been heard. I think that the representatives who spoke about this, particularly Mr Marjan Pipp, have made it very clear what they think about the harmonisation of this law so far. Second. The law has certain half-solutions, so we have proposed amendments. In doing so, we have proposed the amendments in particular in order to bring the law in line with what this legislative body adopted on 1 February 2005, and some of you have already forgotten. We have adopted a Constitution for Europe and therefore our amendments are primarily trying to make this law less romantic and more European. Further on, we will be able to explain this in more detail in individual amendments, and we Members and Members of Parliament want nothing more than the drafting of amendments, with their adoption, if you find power in the ruling coalition, to prevent that once the law is passed, someone from speaking immediately as he has said today that his changes are needed. In the third reading, let us take the time needed, give amendments that are designed, substantively dealt with, try to accept, and then it will be easier by consensus to adopt this law. We are a partnership for development, although there is no partnership, and obviously no development, for at least a few weeks now, we understand as a discussion in this round hall of the National Assembly on individual laws, on individual amendments, on finding the right consensus on concrete solutions, not as a picture for the media or in principle to discuss. Thus, I think that this law and the amendments that we have drafted can be a fine example of how, if there is a will, to discuss the content of individual articles and the content to find those solutions that will be most appropriate for Slovenians outside the boundaries of their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u43	Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u44	I'm quitting because the amendments will need to save time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, distinguished representatives of Slovenians around the world and in place! Fellow Members and Members. In fact, we are ending one long period today and will contribute to normalisation in this area as well. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, this law should have been adopted long ago. Today, when I listen to these discussions, I can somehow understand, mainly from the debate of LDS Members, that this matter has not been concluded in the past, because it is a politically sensitive matter. They didn't say why it should be politically sensitive. For us in New Slovenia it certainly is not. We wanted this chapter to be arranged long ago for Slovenia to develop a normal relationship as a queen to Slovenians in place and around the world. Unfortunately, that really didn't work out. An attempt was made by the Coalition of Slovenia to reach a law regulating this area, but that law was rejected by the then ruling coalition in Parliament. And it was necessary to wait for the new elections, for the changed relations in the Republic of Slovenia. And, thank God, after October 2004, this also happened, and the result is that today we are before this, as Dr. Zorn said, a historic day regarding this issue. Several of these historical moments have been in our history, and so today we are also regulating this area of co-existence within the European Union and beyond. What really worried me, and what I know, was actually the appearance of the Magi. Pippa, who has pointed out this duality, which reigns in one part of our replacement more, in the other perhaps a little less. He pointed out, in fact, that this duality is present in all areas, from politics, culture, he even mentioned the economy. I would say that sometimes the economy does not actually know these ideological obstacles, but unfortunately in this case, as he said, this is reflected even in the field of the economy. This duality is, in fact, historically conditioned. The post-war authorities helped organise it on the principle of 'divine et impera', which has been firmly anchored in one part of minority organisations, and I fear that this will be very difficult to overcome and that we will need a long time before the new generations actually realize that this duality is not going anywhere and that, in fact, synergies can only have an impact in a joint performance. This duality will be so much more difficult to overcome, because even at home in Slovenia we still have not buried all ideological differences. After all, this is also evident at the present moment, when we somehow thought that we had succeeded in a question from our past, from our history put off the agenda, and it appears again that in these war laws this matter will not go that way and that we are actually staying on two different shores. Whether this duality could be changed by means of a method of funding, I think so, because the country can contribute to those projects that eliminate this duality. However, it must be understood that this is, of course, a longer process, a longer process that will not be possible to change on short notice. And I think that the Minister for Slovenians around the world will be able to make a decisive contribution to this, because in New Slovenia we are very committed to getting back, as in the time of the Demos' government, the minister for Slovenians around the world. In the face of a minister who will be a member of the government, who will also be able to defend various projects at the government level, he will certainly have - and also have a different attitude abroad than if someone who is in a lower rank than a minister. Regrettably, it was impossible to do so so that we could immediately legalize it, for in this case the government law should be amended. However, since the government has already been set up, this marriage commitment is foreseen for the next term, whoever is in the country will then form a government coalition. And one more chapter I would like to touch, this is the area of possible repatriation, so it is possible that some of our Slovenians will return to their homeland. This, of course, seems to me to be a good approach at this point, although I do not imagine that many Slovenians would take advantage of this possibility, because today, after so many years, when, in fact, there is a global economy in the whole world and the situation is more or less comparable, it is difficult to imagine that in some individual country there would be a major crisis so that people would travel and return to their homeland for economic reasons, because political reasons probably will not be the motive for some large migration or immigration of nations at this time, at least from this world where the Slovenians currently reside. But it is right that we have arranged this way and that even through law all those who may think about going home in this way and finally telling them that they are welcome home and that if they choose to do so, they will be happy to accept it. In New Slovenia we are very pleased, we will support the law, but we are aware that no law is so good that it could not be even better. I also believe that this law, which I understand today, with the majority of Members and Members of Parliament, may be accepted with all of them that this law will be subject to correction in the future in this direction, where there may have been some comments or some inconsistencies at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Davorin Terchón has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't be so easily equipped with the concept of a historical event. We have had quite a few historic events in this young country, and I am afraid that today we will not achieve that unity, as in these historical events, since independence, integration into NATO, and some other things, at least if there is no new knowledge in the ruling coalition. Since a lot has already been said, I would point to just a few things. My friend Kokalj was talking about diaspora. I'm not saying this because I object to the concept of diaspora itself. After all, in neighbouring countries, when we look at Croatia and Italy, for example, when they talk about their relatives abroad, they can very much have the concept of diaspora. But given the state of the spirit, I would like to draw attention to something that is very important to us Slovenians many times. Years ago, Mr Bebler, President of the Slovenian expatriate mother, took the position of speaking about the Slovenian diaspora, but he was given the horrendous criticism of the work of the emigrants, that the Slovenians were not a diaspora abroad because they were part of living national or national tissue. What was I going to say? That many times is important to us too, not only who says something, but especially who says it. As for Mr Pukšič and the great credits given to this law and this historic day, I would like to say, as I said at the outset. In this House, we have adopted two resolutions by consensus. The former ruling coalition could also propose and adopt the law itself, as you intend today. And yet we went to search for consensus. And it would be good for you to listen to it a little bit. Home for immigration, today I hear again, as it was said, that this will never be a home at all. Then what do we write in marriage? Then accept our amendment, and the very wide possibilities for implementing help to return Slovenians will be open. But it's not the law that says we have a home, and then we find out in explanation that it won't be at home. That's completely de-laxed to me. As far as the key issue of the world and Article 19 is concerned. Look, as I said before, we've been trying to listen primarily to those who care about this matter. So it's our cousins in exchange. For the last time, the joint coordination was represented by Mr Pavšić, who sits up today, today is represented by Mr Pipp, who has sat up for the last time. What does that tell us? That they are alone, and these two gentlemen are difficult to define with the same concept either the world-view definitions, come from different backgrounds and so on. Yet they found a common point where they united. And now we're telling them, no, it doesn't matter what you've done. It doesn't matter that you want to be a subject, even though we say you're an entity, we'll do it our way. That's not right. We just want to listen. As for the numerical composition of the world, I would say that this is mainly mathematics after Pukšič, or perhaps some other from the office. This is a mathematical equation, and I don't want to speculate about the calculation, but roughly so is, 3:1 is equal to 4:6. I think he's saying enough, I don't have any more words. You know, obviously, what you're doing, and maybe you'll take it as well. The Slovenian Democratic Party and the Social Democrats are obviously at least at this point also in some kind of partnership; this is fine if you have managed to unify yourself. Unfortunately, this partnership in this case goes through the backs of our kinsmen, which is not good. I would like more attention to their initiatives and needs, however. As for the minister without a license, this minister is married, and we don't know if we're gonna have one. It's actually a big sand in the eyes. We know that before any constitution of the government, after the elections take place, the number of ministries will be determined, the government law will be passed, and it will be possible for this to take place. If we had the will, we would have had it without this legal provision. You can see very well, but there is no guarantee that this minister will be, except a referral. Finally, once again, we do not want to speculate, but it would be right, as I said, to accept it by consensus. However, we cannot do this because we cannot give our vote only for your suggestions, beyond taking account of our vote, but above all by taking account of the voice of those to whom it is intended. This would give us a message that everything is fine, but we all know, and today we have heard from different sides that everything is not right and that the law will have to be changed. Let this be some conscience for the future, that these things are not done like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 3.4.2006. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u50	Madam Vice President, I have a procedural question. Is it possible to take 15 minutes off before the individual amendments can be considered in order to discuss procedural matters in the parliamentary groups?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u51	Would you like to speak on behalf of your Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u52	Yes, we can take it on behalf of the Group of Members in order to agree further.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u53	That's possible under the rules of procedure, so I'm taking 15 minutes off. We'll continue the meeting at 12.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u54	We continue with the adjourned session. And thank you to the Vice-President, Mag. The pianos for the session so far! As previously agreed, there is no need for the interrupter to explain his interruption, so Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS Group are put to the debate. In so doing, let me say that the amendment is linked to the amendments of the same proposer to the title of Chapter 7, the first amendment to Articles 70, 71 and 72, the first amendment to Article 75, and the amendments to Articles 76, 77, 78, 79.81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89 and 91. I'm opening a debate on all the amendments. Who wants a word? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u55	Therefore, to Article 1 and related, a number of other articles, it must be said that decision-making on these amendments will be very important, since it concerns virtually all the content of the amendments, except Article 19. Now I find that there was an attempt to find some compromises, which, like months so far, have brought nothing new, and it has been more of a warming up of milk water, as I have estimated. I would appeal for support to Article 1, mainly because of the Europeanity of the law. We will also discuss Article 3a, as I said in the opening presentation proposed by the Social Democrats and the Government supports. Let me mention here if this amendment to Article 1 is not adopted to give support to at least Article 3a, but I think it is very important to stress that it would indicate and that it would be much better to support Article 1. For the first time, because this European article, if I may call it, is broader, more qualitative, according to our assessment, and in particular the other amendments that regulate repatriation and immigration, which have already been spoken of, are linked to it. If this article falls, all the other articles will be meaningless. Let me repeat, we're here to support both repatriation and immigration. For reasons that have been said many times to allow support by the State of Slovenia to all Slovenes, and not to be categorized in essence on the basis of who has ever left the country, someone has found himself because of the outline of the border line that has been drawn in Europe, not only in our case, but in all countries, but because of the other circumstances, and this one would not enjoy the same rights as those that would characterize him as a repatriated person. In our deep conviction, however, it is important, since it is also related to Article 78, that more modern arrangements be made to help return or return to the Slovenians in general. And in some ways, the disgraceful category at home for immigration is also being removed from the law, so that we can go to modern forms of promoting return, in the form of housing aid, cultural adjustment, education and everything that is needed. I therefore appeal once again that you give this article your support for the vote tonight and, in this connection, open up the possibility that these content sets will be implemented into law and thus we will get a better, more modern law, a European comparable law and, above all, a law that will be more useful and better for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 1. In another reading, when a trip was made to this area, it was found that it was premature or not well thought out. Therefore, the amendment to article 70, which extends this possibility in this area, is written to add the third paragraph, which states: "In addition to repatriation within the meaning of this Act, the Republic of Slovenia also supports other forms of immigration and return of Slovenian expatriates and natives and their descendants. The means of support referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be determined by individual sectoral laws." I think that's good enough, that's substantive enough, that's wide enough, and that's what's left of the law in the context. As far as the amendment to Article 3a is concerned, I have said earlier that we cannot influence the legal status of our people outside the borders. However, this article is out of context. Slovenia is bound by the conventions, which it respects as much as possible. If neighbouring countries respected the Conventions so much if Hungary respected only the adoption of the Interstate Agreement, signed in 1992, anything other than what we heard last night about the renegotiation or this mixed committee with Hungary, which was supposed to be each year, and some rotten promises were made again by Hungary. On the other hand, on the Hungarian side, our Slovenians have no bilingual schools, one hour of radio program and so on, in short, disaster. That's why I don't think this amendment is necessary. It doesn't have any content. If it's written in the law, it won't do any good, and it won't do any harm. Article 19 Personally, I think it's as well as written. The fifth paragraph states that members of the Council for Slovenians in exchange, representatives of the Slovenians in substitution, are proposed - the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia - to appoint a representative organisation. Representative organisations mean more than just SLOMAK, both Slovenian political organisations [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u58	Mr Pukšič, just let me say that the debate is only about the first and related articles [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u59	Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u60	Will you discuss it later? Good. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that Article 1 or the amendment should be adopted. In addition to everything that has been said, I would like to point out, above all, that those who do not follow this point are currently in Austria and the wider signing of a petition calling for solidarity with the Slovenians and their efforts to set bilingual tables. The reason for this petition is in one part, and I will say that almost exactly the same as in this amendment, which the Republic of Slovenia is talking about the democratically thinking citizens of Austria and the European Union here, we are talking about the Republic of Slovenia, which we are committed to promoting tolerance and mutual understanding between the various ethnic and cultural groups living in the common multicultural environment of the European Union and other countries, in accordance with the principles of the Treaty of Constitution for Europe. Perhaps this, as a colleague of Puksich, seems completely unnecessary and unnecessary. But what's fair to say is that these are platforms on which new relationships can be built. And that's why I'm going to put it, I'm going to say, and this time you really look over your plan, and you see that there are people who, in a different language, understand the problems of minorities that we're working for. It will cost us nothing if we declare the necessary tolerance and openness when it comes to the country, if we also expect it from the Republic of Austria. I would like to support this and set up a modern platform to address these minority problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u62	Mr. Puksich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u63	Since my colleague, Školč, has appointed me, I only replicate in this sense, not that we look over the planks, I am glad that the Liberal Democracy has started to look among the plans at this law, because if not, of course I would have done it long ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. When I read this first paragraph, I must say that the third paragraph is beautifully written, but I ask the LDS whether they realize that it is not a doctrinal document, but that it is a law. Laws, we have spoken here many times that they must be clear, short and so forth. They include content that belongs to resolutions, declarations and all that. It's beautifully written. We agree. And it would be all right, maybe we could take it if they didn't say, I mean, it wasn't said, it was conditional, whether you accept everything or not. This ultimatum seems to me in the third stage, in the third reading acceptable. And this ultimatum, I repeat, this general rejection position is linked to the current situation in your client. You reject everything, you don't look at development, you look at the future, you get out of everything, and unfortunately you will also get out of this project. I'm sure you have to look at this thing analytically, and I understand these things, your president is arrogant, he's radical, he's radicalized in all areas, he doesn't want to listen to anyone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u66	Mr Jerovšek, we do not have a president on the agenda [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u67	Yeah, I know, but of course, the roots of how you draw on this, that kind of attitude, I find. I would still have pleaded that we would be cooperative in this particular area and that we would have given up on your opposition here. You may object, but that's not a good policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u69	Comrade Jerovšek, look, this time you are opposed to an amendment that you find beautifully written and even agree with. We are making a proposal that you are discussing, not that we are opposed to something. I understand that there are many difficulties in discussing the subject of the law, and I believe that if we were to discuss the amount of oats available in Slovenia or the colored bug, you would immediately go to the debate on LDS and Jelko Kacin. This is understandable and also fun, but the problems of the Slovenians around the world and instead it does not benefit in any way. From this point of view, it would be advisable to return to the law and the laws are written in such a way as to establish principles and foundations at the outset. This has always been true, and this article only does so. I can repeat that if you stopped calling, it wouldn't cause unnecessary misunderstandings, but that's the point. We offer better, better defined starting points with some modern platform. We're not talking about the client or the oats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members for a new Article 3a. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The proposed article or amendment underlines that the Republic of Slovenia respects the legislation of the European Union and the principles of the Council of Europe, which is responsible for minority legislation. This amendment, or the content of this Article, has been proposed by representatives of Slovenian minority coordination and has been adopted by the Home Committee on Internal Policy. In the second reading, he didn't get enough votes, and I think he's run out of two or maybe three votes. I think that this amendment of the Social Democrats could be supported, supported by the government, but I do not know for what reasons the representative of the government coalition, former Secretary of State Puksic, opposes him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I would also like to remind you of the debate in the home work body, the Internal Policy Committee, where some Members have supported such content as is now proposed by the Social Democracy in its amendment. In order to be supported by the Government, I would like to point out once again that, in the substantive sense, this amendment is the continuation of the content of the third paragraph of our amendment to Article 1. Although it is of a declarative nature, we believe it is right to find it in Article 1 of this Act, since it already rejects certain statements or claims in place of Slovenia attempting to impose some territorial claims on its neighbouring territory. As we refer to all the legal instruments in force in the international organisations we are members of, it is right to stress this in particular here and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. There's no sign-in. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the three amendments of the LDS Group of Members. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u75	Well, maybe one last time about the keyity of this amendment. Since the ultimatums were just mentioned, we did not set any ultimatum, we said that it would be good and useful for the law to be adopted in the first instance of the amendment of Article 19 as well as Article 1, Article 78, amendments to this Article and that this was no ultimatum. We have no ultimatums and we have only proposed constructive proposals. With the ultimate, the ruling coalition has more problems, and I know that they have tried to find some compromise because of the government's ultimatum so that only 3a can change. Article 70 is as it is. The coalition knows exactly what the LDS is proposing, they must refuse, even if it coincides with the interests of foreigners, and only some beautiful corrections can be proposed and they have problems with themselves because they have transformed 3a on their own working body. The article did, however, re-entry in contrast with the government, and they returned, and they only changed it, this beautiful and essential one. As far as Article 19 is concerned, why do we propose a change? Because this world can become a government novice. She'll name him herself. And in case of bilingual tables, this world will be able to say that what's going on in Austria is fine. Just as we now have a lactating policy on this issue of government. As he will name according to the key that will be liked, as will the world of the public institution of RTV, where everyone could propose something, only the chosen ones were chosen at the will of someone and now nod. We have what we have, and this is where this story will happen again. You do not want to hear the voice of the foreigners, who would choose their own representatives and represent their own position and position. You'll choose them. And you claim that not only SLOMAK, we have avoided the category of SLOMAK, but we have said about the Zambian organization. So you will continue to appoint various organizations into the world that will be your age, political parties for whom you claim to be Slovenian, say the Slovenian Community. But this is an Italian party with a Slovenian omen. How Slovenian she is as a party to the Left Democrats in Italy, which has senators who do not have a party to the Slovenian community. Which has two country advisors against one country adviser from a party of the Slovenian Community, but you do not want to hear these voices for political reasons and because we oppose the kimows, we will propose our own and insist on this. If it's not voted out, we won't be able to support this law, even if we want to. We'd like it to be accepted by consensus, but you don't want it because you have your ultimatums written in your head.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you. And Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support all three amendments of the Liberal Democracy Club to Article 19, which is why Slovenian minority coordination, which has been making comments all the time during the consideration of this law, I think it would be good to hear the amendments also from the government coalition and to support these three amendments, especially the number composition of the Council for Slovenians, which is now unbalanced, and the decisive impact of Slovenian minority coordination on the composition of members of the Council for Slovenians in exchange coming from neighbouring countries. These amendments will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u78	He's a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. We amendments of the Liberal Democracy to Article 19 have been carefully examined, carefully considered every single paragraph proposed for change, and somehow decided as it is written here. Unfortunately, the SLOMAK shortcut, which I apologize for, was not our purpose. This was actually a setback, which was also the result of longer work in these amendments. The bill sincerely appreciates the functioning of minority coordination, as it is an effort aimed at promoting cooperation and the functioning of umbrella organisations. On the basis of these comments, which occurred during the discussion and consideration in the National Assembly, Article 19 has already been amended by proposing representative organisations to this consultative body with the Prime Minister. I also repeat here, as I said last time in second reading, we do not support the change in the number of representatives, because this is the result of not mathematics, but of the actual organisation of Slovenian communities in Italy, namely Slovenian communities in Furlania - Julian Krajina, in all three provinces, in Koroška and Slovenes in Styria, who are in a significantly different position than Slovenians in Koroška. Therefore, the key given by the applicant corresponds to this organisation, and any change in this would undermine it. That's why I just stopped by and said what I said the last time. I also said that this key of division also follows the division or number of representatives in the coordination of SLOMAK, where representatives from these four neighbouring countries are somehow involved with this key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, and then Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I think it's three key supplements; maybe not all of them are the same weight, but surely the other complement is of central importance. From this point of view, what Mr Pelican says is important is that there has been a setback. Convulsions sometimes talk more about intentions than what is demonstrated by another saying in Parliament. But I wouldn't talk about it. This confession is welcome and is in place. Why is the other supplement important? Because, unlike those who propose, the law, office and government treats a minority as equal, not as subordinate. That's the first difference. This creates a partnership between these minority organisations and the State of the Republic of Slovenia when they represent these things themselves. Lawmakers and the Bureau seem to think that it is still possible and necessary to provide patronage for these matters. There's a significant difference. The essential difference is that the amendment, as proposed, recognises the full age of the minority. You don't want to admit your age. Otherwise, they can propose something, and Pater familyis will decide. That's not good. This means that we are returning to those times which my colleague Puksič so criticised that Ljubljana and Belgrade were privileged to choose their partners. That's what you want to do now. If we suggest this, it does not mean that the LDS will be able to propose anything, but that the minority will be alone. This means that the office and government will lose the privilege of deciding who is a better and more suitable "minority". You're resisting this, and that's bad. In short, this supplement speaks of the subjectivity of a minority. You don't admit it, we don't, like minority organizations, who don't hope to talk more than that at the end of the day, we defend it, and we think it must be the basis of the law. There are misunderstandings here. As far as the number is concerned, we can discuss, but it would be good if Mr Pelikan, who says he knows exactly what kind of organisation this is, said who in this organisation will say that we are not wasting words and time in this debate needlessly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. When Mr Pelikan tried to defend Article 19, paragraph 5 as proposed by the Government, I see another additional problem. Indeed, this fifth paragraph basically states that Slovenia or the Prime Minister will determine what are the implications, which are representative organisations of indigenous Slovenian national communities in neighbouring countries. I am convinced that this kind of discretion does not work for the Prime Minister and the Slovenian Government. That is why our amendment, which proposes a new fifth paragraph, solves this problem, and the foreign organisations themselves will tell who they are proposing to this world of foreigners. And the appropriate body for joint border coordination will be the one to determine this in the final stage. However, as the fifth paragraph of Article 19 has now been written, it speaks of implicitly being understood by the Prime Minister or the Government as to which representative organisations of the indigenous Slovenian national community are in neighbouring countries. I also think that this is actually a major problem with this paragraph of Article 19.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you very much. And the mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think Article 19 is a good article and very clear. I think that the text could be clarified more precisely at point 5 which was adopted in the second reading. What the distinguished colleague Darje and colleague Terčon spoke before me or colleague Školč, I do not know whether it is a misunderstanding or perhaps a deception, but in paragraph 4 it is very clear: the work of the Council for Slovenians in exchange and its composition in the work relating to members of the Council from the Republic of Slovenia is governed by the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the work relating to the members of the replacement, that is in the hands of the foreigners and they are sovereigns and they will decide which members of the council will be the members of the council, they will propose, the Prime Minister will only take their proposal. He won't be able to, he can't propose, he'll just figure out who they've proposed to this world. It is necessary to read paragraphs 4 and 5 of Articles 19 together, and point 5 states that members of the Council for Slovenians in exchange, representatives of Slovenians in exchange shall propose to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a representative organisation of the indigenous Slovenian national minority. This must be determined by the minority, which are these representative organisations, and this will not be identified by the government. There's a minority of subjects here. I'd give a coordinating role here, say, to coordinate SLOMAK, but it's probably not possible to unify it, because you have to address someone who's going to do it. Point 5 is very clear to me and also to the fourth, where the minority is the one who will propose people to this world. And what you find by respected colleagues and colleagues that the government will delegate, who will be able to come from a replacement to this world, is not so mentioned in this Article 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Even Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler, 22 seconds at best.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u87	I'll be very short. This article, this paragraph is very clear. The representative organisations of the indigenous minority and as far as we are concerned about representativeness are concerned, it is also necessary to say who provides for this representativeness and therefore it is necessary to write this article accordingly, so this article is the misleading one.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you. I conclude the debate and put to discussion Article 70 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I have already welcomed the fact that this law brings for the first time in history a legal determination regarding repatriation and, as is now recorded in the second amendment to article 70, other forms of immigration and return. I also drew attention to the words spoken here by the representative of Slovenians around the world - Dr. Zorn, when he mentioned that it was a historic day, and I added that it was one of the historical days in the history of our Slovenian nation. I repeat this again because my fellow Member, Terchón, misrepresented me. Let me explain why history day, why one of the historical days. Because after fifteen years of the current Slovenian Constitution, we are actually fulfilling what we wrote in the Constitution at the time. So that's what this is all about. And if it wasn't possible during Demos' time, because Demos was dealing with other big issues, then one would expect that in all these years the LDS rule and coalitions led by LDS would be given due attention. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and today we are about to adopt this law, which deals with this issue. Of course, we are probably all aware that it is only in the law to write this principle, that this principle will not suffice. That it is necessary, if we really want to create the conditions in Slovenia, that one of our evictees, the Slovenians around the world, decide to return to Slovenia, do a lot more. Above all, it will be necessary to create a certain positive climate throughout the entire nation's body, but not that, like many times in this house of democracy, we listen to insults at the expense of those who have already decided in the past and have returned. I must point out this because the President of Nova Slovenije, on the part of some fellow Members, is often involved in these observations, when you speak and say, which is like in Argentina and so on. So if we keep going with this mentality, then we're going to have a hard time doing it. But we know that it would be useful if the third generation of Slovenians around the world started making decisions and started coming back from Argentina where they are most. With this, Slovenia could solve many of its problems in the field of deficit jobs, we lack many doctors, and to somehow follow this, we went to set up another medical university, which will give its results only after many years. If we were to do this more positively, we could get some of our people out of some of these lands and come back. Once again, I say that this would be possible, there will be a lot more to be said for the Slovenians to actually see through this the possibility of moving back to Slovenia. This is now the beginning of this law and we welcome it in New Slovenia and we think it will produce some results. That's what I'd tell you. Comrade Terchón, see, as it was in the previous term, so it is in the present. The government and the government coalition must act in a coordinated manner. Don't think that the government coalition isn't consulting the government before something is taken in the National Assembly. Just like you did. It's pointless to say we're nosy. You may say this, but it has no real value, and I take it more as some form of discrediting of this National Assembly, or we have been used to it lately, as the highest representatives of this Parliament, if they can, publicly discredit the National Assembly. So it's not the nod, as you called it, but it's that we have different views, you in the opposition of one, we in the government coalition of another. Of course, in the end, the majority vote democratically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this Article. I am also putting to the debate the last article - Article 75 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the second reading, the Social Democrats' Group proposed that the content of the rights acquired by the individual repatriated person be determined by the competent government office. Since it has been explained by the Secretary of State that these rights will be decided by the competent ministries, it is only right that this should be entered into the law. This will ensure that the applicant is aware of the address to which he has to refer if he wishes to exercise the individual rights set out in this Act. It will also be clear that the application must be decided by an administrative act. So I ask you to support this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda; it is now clear that this will be done before 18.20, as originally planned. This concludes this agenda item. Mr. Pelican, with his team and our friend from the estate, thank you very much. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day - the first draft of the Law on Economic Bargains. The total time for discussion is 5 hours and 8 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with first-signed Aleš Gulič and Mirano Potrče were asked to hold a general debate. Between you and me, I welcome the Minister of Mags. The visionary and I also ask him for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Ministry of the Economy has drafted the Economic Chambers Act primarily to contribute to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Today, this is a goal that we are following with a series of measures, and this law is one of the important measures in this direction. It has been clear for a long time that the organisation of the assembly system in Slovenia requires changes and adjustments to new challenges, which are also facing Slovenian companies with membership in the European Community, by opening Slovenia's internal market to the 25-erica market, thereby increasing the pressure on competitiveness and also with the aim of increasing competitiveness in a global sense. The Slovenian Chamber System requires an update that will contribute more to economic growth and will further support Slovenia's strategic objectives and enable the development of appropriate programmes and activities while decommissioning the economy and fostering entrepreneurship and providing a more favourable business objective for SMEs. The Ministry of Economy has undertaken this project, the renovation of the assembly system and also the project of the new Law on Economic Chambers very carefully and systematically. First, by analysing the situation and comparing solutions in other Member States of the European Community. The analysis, in addition to all the functions performed by the Chamber, including the money provided by the Chamber of Commerce, carried out an analysis of similar solutions in other countries, in particular our European competitors. Furthermore, the Ministry of Economy has examined the economic expectations and has also found a solution in the proposal for a law that will allow a gradual transition to a better and more democratic regime of the assembly system, allowing economic operators to be integrated into different chambers on a voluntary basis. The Ministry of Economy or Government estimates that such a law can contribute significantly to the promotion of the efficiency of economic chambers, the more effective participation of economic operators in expressing and enforcing their interests through economic chambers, and also to the decommissioning of the economy, all in the light, towards the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and the strategy for the development of Slovenia. The proposal for a law on chambers of commerce defines the Chamber of Commerce as a self-employed, voluntary, interesting and non-profit association of legal or natural persons who carry out self-employed activities on the market. The membership of the Chambers shall be voluntary and may be included by any economic operator concerned. The Chamber of Commerce has the legal status of a private legal person in the draft law and the proposal does not provide for a minimum number of companies that can set up a chamber. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the GZS in short, continues to operate and becomes a chamber with this law, which is the legal successor of the GZS and can maintain the same name. We have given special attention to the transition of the current Chamber of Commerce to the most efficient Chamber of Commerce under the new proposal, so the final concept and the final proposal of the Law contain a slight transition and how this transition will affect the existing Chamber of Economics depends in particular on this particular Chamber of Economics. Why? Once the law is in force, the members shall have the opportunity to withdraw from the Chamber of Commerce in writing. To the extent that the management does not, in so far as the Chamber itself does not convince the members of the economic operators today in the Chamber that it is useful for them to maintain this membership, unless it convinces them that it is prudent and beneficial for economic operators to receive more than they pay, then economic operators will be abandoned or; to the extent that it convinces them, they will remain and thus the Chamber will be able to continue to operate to the same extent. We do not want dismantling or any substantial change if the economy does not want it. The economy will therefore be the judge of the existing Chamber of Commerce, which is, in fact, their Chamber of Commerce and so it is. The law fairly addresses the issue of the property of the Chamber, the use of infrastructure and the continuity of vital institutions, such as arbitration and acquittal. There is no doubt that, with the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Community, the assembly system in Slovenia requires an update that will contribute more to economic growth and greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We are convinced that this law is an important step towards ensuring and achieving these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This law is relatively short, but it has raised a very large amount of dust inversely, and I think that before this dust settles, there will be many more debates, I hope that quality solutions will be found, and solutions that can contribute to change may be a little less dramatic than they are now envisaged. The DeSUS Group does not oppose the changes, but it has many questions to ask correctly and also question the solution proposed. While we can simplify things a little bit, we can reduce everything to the problem of compulsory and voluntary membership. It's at the core and everything else is supposed to happen on this basis as a feat. So the question is, is this the right way? The essence of the economic chambers is that the economic sphere is well organised to strengthen the integration of economic operators. They also aim to strengthen the economy in this way in promoting other general development and to enable it to be an appropriate quality partner in social dialogue, the higher the levels of all the partners with which this dialogue must lead. Whether the proposed law goes in this direction or not, or whether we will achieve the objectives set out by the applicants, what is the purpose of this law, it is questionable, in particular, to take into account certain intermediate stages of the amendment. I could, but I would not like to say that this is the case, but the question can be asked whether it is not possibly at least partly intended to change this also to dethronize those who are now on the throne, and it is not necessary for this law to change. Or perhaps it is also an attempt of some kind, conditionally said, to dismantle the existing system, whether or not it is a characteristic takeover of the work of the current Chamber of Commerce, and probably many things we see how these can be taken over and by which the takers also happen. In our Group of Members, we believe that this is a legitimate issue, particularly because the Chamber of Commerce has already taken up certain reorganisations in the meantime. She promised to reorganize tasks, services, network structures. It strives for a declaration of simplification, for better quality, for rationalisation, for greater efficiency, for lower membership and for a different way of raising funds for its own functioning. These opportunities, as we can see, would prove what is truly capable of doing in this area, which goals will probably not be achieved by the Slovenian Economic Chamber. Although she also promised to reform the electoral system. We avoid that a large part of the economy was concerned about the proposed reorganisation or the proposed law. It is certainly necessary to recall the views of the Group of Seven, and the group created within the Ministry of the Economy differs considerably from what it stands for, from what is now provided for in the law. It is important to recall that the Union of Employers of Slovenia is also not in favour of such solutions. That this is not favoured by the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce, at least not by the authorities, but also by the Chamber of Commerce, has concerns about this. However, we also have a point of view regarding the fact that of the 18 or 19 chambers that we have, we are now putting on the table and dissecting mainly the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is understandable because it is the strongest and most important, but we are trying to change the system perhaps too partially. What the consequences will be, we can only now identify or predict without any specific assurance that the forecasts will be accurate; it is likely that the power of the Chambers will weaken, that it will be fragmented, that - if not worse - at least different partners of the higher-a-vis state and others in the social dialogue, that the question of whether this will really mean rationalisation and appreciation. And it is a question of whether this will mean greater competitiveness of the economy, although of course everyone would want it, but it is not some special assurance that this will actually happen. So it seems to us, however, that there is still an open question of representativeness and also of possible separate, specific interests of individual chambers, which can even be translated or produced into conflicts of succession between individual chambers, and we do not see any assured possibilities of communication in the way that the assets, information bases, personnel and everything else that forms the core of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be so divided that there will be no too many disruptions around this. In short, there remain a number of open questions, to which we in the DeSUS Group do not merely give negative answers, we feel that they need to be reconsidered again and again, and we do not condemn the unrelentingly individual parts of the proposed law to be supported or rejected. We support change. We estimate that these changes could go a little bit less radical, although the minister has assured that radicalism is no longer, but we see some more sharpness. Radicalism has changed the concept and the concept has changed, and if there is no more willingness to talk about the concept, then this radicalism will probably have the last word. We would prefer to keep the debate open in order to seek further solutions, which would also be more strongly supported by the economy, because it is an economy in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Marinič will speak on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues. The Chamber of Commerce is an association of legal and natural persons who carry out self-employed activities on the market. They can be established by companies themselves, or independent entrepreneurs, on a voluntary basis. We know such chambers as private courts, but the Chamber can establish a state with an act or law as public administration chambers; both models have their advantages and disadvantages. In Slovenia we have known only the public administration model of compulsory membership. On the basis of the public administration model, 19 chambers of commerce and trade have been established in Slovenia. In many of these chambers, however, the main shortcomings of the public administration chambers have proved to be mandatory membership. While this ensures a stable financial flow, it flows irrespective of work and results, so many of the management of the chamber sleeps, demotivating it. In short, leadership no longer fulfils its basic tasks, that is to offer support for its membership and intermediation between the country and the economy. The aim of the proposal for a bill on chambers of commerce is to ensure that economic operators are pooled into different chambers on a voluntary basis. The legislator considers that such a law can significantly contribute to the efficiency of economic chambers, to the more effective participation of economic operators in expressing and enforcing their interests through economic chambers, and also to the decommissioning of the economy, at least with a view to implementing the Lisbon Strategy and the development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law on chambers of commerce provides for a procedure for the establishment, operation and termination of chambers of commerce in which membership is voluntary. The essential requirements of the transitional provisions are intended to transform the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia into a chamber according to the provisions of this Act. The members of the GZS may withdraw from the Chamber of Commerce after the establishment of the GZS’s legal successor assembly. The membership of the Chamber shall be voluntary and may be included by any economic operator concerned. In the draft law, the Chamber of Commerce has the legal status of a private legal person. In addition to the law, it does not provide for a minimum number of companies that can set up a chamber. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia continues to work and this law becomes a chamber, which is the legal successor of the GZS and can maintain the same name. Within five months, the new statute must be recast, adopted and elected by the authorities of the Chamber. The members of the GHS shall become members of the legal successor and may immediately withdraw from the Chamber by written statement. The bill stipulates that the guardian of the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is its legal successor. Until the physical distribution of assets, which is two years after the enactment of the law, is prohibited any possession of this property. Exceptions shall be the ongoing operation and urgent investment maintenance and coverage of the costs of the Honorary Court at the GZS, permanent arbitration at the GZS, membership in international organisations where only one national chamber may be a member, and those public powers given by other laws, if they are not tasks for which the tariff for the payment of these services is fixed. The bill also provides for the possibility of using GZS infrastructure to other chambers established under this law. This application is based on the proportion of members to be merged into a new Chamber. The proposed law provides in a transparent manner for the recording of infrastructure entitlements for each new chamber and is based on paid membership in the GHS in the last ten years. The continuity of the work and representation of the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce shall be ensured by providing that the law provides that the legal successor of the GHS shall continue to exercise the public powers conferred on the GZS by specific rules. It also pursues the work of honorable judgment and continuous arbitration. Membership in international organisations shall also continue to remain a member of the legal successor to the GZS. All these activities shall be financed for two years from the assets of the GHS. In the SDS Group, we believe that it is right for businesses and independent entrepreneurs to be able to combine individuals also on the basis of a private model of the Chamber, i.e. on a voluntary basis. We will support the proposal of the Economic Chambers Act in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dr. Lakhovnik has the word on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, Mr President! In the world, we know different models of how to edit chambers. We know models from the Anglo-Saxon Council, where there is a private model with voluntary membership, and we know the so-called continental model used by most European countries, with compulsory membership and also with the public-law character of the Chambers. There are also mixed models used mainly by Scandinavian countries and also between Hungary. What is interesting about this is that in Slovenia we have decided on a hybrid model, which at first sight has some characteristics of the Anglo-Saxon model, but also has some significant shortcomings. Among the shortcomings that are to be highlighted in particular is the fact that the law does not stipulate in any way what the representativeness of the chambers that will arise is. In theory, one or 100 different chambers of commerce can be created according to this law. We wonder whether there will be 50, 60, some more of these chambers of commerce providing cheaper services for economic operators. Is that really a promise we can make and is not also valid in this case a economies of scale that says that costs are lower if there are many economic operators in the Chamber of Economics? It is also unclear whether the government wants to pursue the concept of regional, sectoral or other chambers. It's true, we can leave it to the market, it's possible. However, it should also be pointed out that countries with a private model that knows the voluntary form of membership, such as Denmark and Luxembourg, also know the association of chambers on the other hand. And what is the purpose of this association of chambers: to represent the interests of their national economy in international associations, to represent them in the exercise of certain public powers. The Slovenian law of such an institution does not know such associations of chambers, although it is possible that a very large number of different industries, mainly industry, regional chambers of commerce, may arise, and the question arises who will represent the interests of the Slovenian economy in international associations after the transitional two-year period. This is an open question. The next thing to be pointed out is the Government's partial approach to solving the problem of the Chambers. If we look at some other chambers, such as the Chamber of Commerce, not to mention the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, we see that membership is still a mandatory form of membership there, with a particularly interesting agri-house which has, you will not believe, as many as 147 thousand members. Many residents who have a slightly higher salary for land, on which their inherited property or around the house are unwitting members of the agri-agricultural chamber, and in this case no one wonders what their interest is to be included in such an agri-agricultural chamber. No one wonders why we have an agricultural-agriculture chamber, which is three times as large as the actual number of farmers in Slovenia. These are interesting questions and why no one asks. Because, of course, we can conclude that it is to a large extent political, social engineering, that it is a chamber that was, obviously, established with some political motives. Of course, we ask ourselves, on the other hand, that we have even professional, some kind of professional hall, such as medical, legal, and so on. So surely there is a great inconsistency that we can see when we read this law. A number of other issues are raised, the division of powers and the areas of operation of the Chambers which will arise. This issue is completely incomplete in the existing law. And it's not good enough. What needs to be highlighted and what we want to stress in the Liberal Democracy Group is the fact that we are also very much assessing that a welcome drink is in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, that this chamber needs to be more responsive to the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, but this concept, as the Slovenian Government offers, is not introducing an additional trachea that will make the Chamber of Commerce even better to serve the interests of the economy, but is the concept of some tsunami that will destroy everything that is bad with a great wave, and of course also what is good. And it is not clear what will happen after a transitional period of two years. Two, three, four, five chambers that will work relatively well will be able to produce 10, 20, 30 chambers that will work more or less poorly. A hundred chambers could be created, some of which could be created simply because the interest would be to acquire the property of an existing chamber, to pursue some partial interests, while the issue of public powers remained entirely open and who would represent the Slovenian economy in international associations after the two-year period. Dear Members! Nobel laureate Milton Friedman said no free lunch in the economy. These services provided by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will have to be provided at the newly established Chambers of Commerce. For Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the key question is whether these services will be cheaper and whether, on the other hand, this establishment of a larger number of Chambers will cost more than it costs now to provide services provided by one Chamber. We are in no way opposed to the introduction of voluntary membership. This is a possible concept, but if we are to decide on this concept in the country, we need to look closely at what this concept is, how Denmark knows about it, why they invented a convention in Denmark, and whether Slovenia is such a special model that it does not need such associations of chambers. In short, it may be possible to move on to a model of voluntary membership, and it may also be possible to introduce the concept of private chambers, but it is necessary to be consistent. And if something is good for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, then it is difficult to accept the argument that this is not good for the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture of Slovenia just because the structure or political interest in that case is possibly different. And we can ask ourselves whether there will also be chambers, a larger number of chambers, which will be more political chambers than chambers, which would work in the interest of the Slovenian economy. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the proposed law could be supported if it were conceptually better to have clear answers as to who would represent the interests of the Slovenian economy in international associations after the expiry of a two-year period, who would exercise the public powers currently exercised by the Chamber of Commerce, and in particular, if it were at least roughly clear what the powers and responsibilities of the delimitation would be between the individual chambers, which would possibly be created, and if they had at least an approximately clear answer, which it is not, or would not be significantly higher than the functioning of one, two or three chambers. And finally, we can ask ourselves, who's going to pay for all this? The answer is always the same, but in the economy, ladies and gentlemen, no lunch is free. Because there are no substantive answers to these questions in the law because there is no answer to any fundamental questions, because it is not clear what the Slovenian model is so special and so different from the Danish model, although obviously we are trying to copy it in some elements at least, the law of what it is cannot be supported, no matter what we might be inclined to volunteer membership, to voluntary membership, if the law were based on some substantive better framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Now Mr Horvath has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and all the others present! We, too, in the Social Democrats Group, agree that the reform of the assembly system or assembly systems is necessary for greater efficiency, for better funding, and we follow or agree with the objectives set out by the proposaler in his explanation and presented here earlier by the Minister. Unfortunately, however, when we look at the text of the proposed law that the law does not follow these objectives and principles, it does not follow to a large extent, on the contrary, I would like to say that this proposal will be harmful to the economy and the country in the long term, which means the collapse of the assembly system and the proposal for solutions contrary to long-standing practice, good practice in the countries most comparable to us. Even with surprise, I note that the proposal does not follow the expert analyses which, I have been monitoring last year, have been carried out sufficiently in the Ministry of the Economy, and in their conclusions and proposals, guidance was also given and some warnings on how to proceed and implement the reform of the assembly system. In doing so, I am asked, whether it is a question of what is in the past, or whether it is a misunderstanding and a disregard for the good scratch and the essence of the assembly system; this, given the analysis carried out at the Ministry of the Economy, is almost impossible to believe whether - which is then the only possible alternative - is that it is exclusively political motives, the collapse of the choir organisation and the taking over of another lever of the normal and efficient organisation of the economy. Let me mention some of the biggest weaknesses of this proposal that we see and read. For the first time, professionally and systematically unacceptable and even harmfully, the government is proposing radical changes, as the revolutionary system changes would say only for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, if there are valid reasons and there are, for the sake of consistency, and this is also noted in one of the analyses by the working group, at least three chambers in the field of economics: the Chamber of Commerce, crafts and agriculture, if we leave the Chamber of Commerce at the same time. Although each activity has its own specificities, the essential issues of role and assembly organisation are the same or analog, the Chamber as a representative of the economy, as a service to its members and as an important part of civil society. Most of the leading and most developed countries with a market economy and developed democracy in Europe retain the public law model of compulsory membership. Germany, Austria, Italy, France and could also list. These are also the most important economic partners of Slovenia, which is irrelevant, because it is very useful if we have similar or analog assembly systems. If we were already going to voluntary membership, as far as possible, we should at least strive to do so or ensure that the Chambers are representative because they can be an equal and effective partner towards the country, other organisations at home and abroad, etc. The experiments of some transition countries in Central and Eastern Europe, which are largely taken as a benchmark and model in our solutions, I do not think they are true, because they have largely not shown significant results in practice. On the contrary, they were led to marginalization chambers of commerce. I'm sure that's not the best practice. A completely flawed and unique solution, which instead of a single one, proposes the creation of a larger number of chambers. This is contrary to Europe's predominant concept of chambers. For the purpose of the interesting integration referred to by the proposer, the law on companies, colleagues and colleagues provides for the creation of so-called GIGs, economic interest associations. This is a form of voluntary merger of individual industry enterprises for a particular area of activity or tasks, but this is not a substitute or alternative to the assembly organisation. Organising a larger number of chambers in terms of GIS would certainly be more expensive and would reduce the effective performance of the economy across from the country and other institutions both at home and abroad. The proposed collapse of the GHS would jeopardise one of the most important tasks of economic chambers everywhere in Europe. This is the promotion of international economic cooperation. In the future, this task, in particular the shift of the economy to new markets, will be even more important than it has been so far, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the limited resources and staff, the experience of comparable countries is useful or, I could say, an exit to the partnership of the economy and the state. The collapse of the GHS would jeopardise the existence and functioning of the regional regional chambers. These chambers are extremely important in situations where we do not yet have organised regions or landscapes, as they are often the only institutions for connecting the economy, planning development, consulting businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. They are regional chambers and will be an indispensable factor in cross-border and inter-regional cooperation. This cooperation, as we know, is increasingly being encouraged by the European Union. As a rule, modern countries are transferring more and more tasks to chambers and other organisations or institutions. The proposed concept would lead in the opposite direction, the accumulation of professional and operational tasks and activities in the administration, which would be ineffective and irrational and would add to the burden of someone else as taxpayers. The proposed law is in total contravention of the announced and necessary withdrawal of the country from the economy. In this case, the government intervenes administratively in the organisation of the economy, the breakdown of the Chamber of Commerce instead of greater company autonomy and their integration would result in greater dependence on the state, the readership, the government. It would be more appropriate for the government to promote better cooperation between chambers, division of labour, specialisation, joint market activities abroad, promotion and advice to small, medium-sized enterprises, etc. The applicant refers to analyses and surveys, but there are many contradictions and inaccuracies. The proposal does not take into account the important conclusions and recommendations of last year's analysis, which states, inter alia, in the conclusions or in the summaries of the recommendations, the following: "In order for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to effectively implement the development strategy and represent the interests of the Slovenian economy in the common European market, an effective dialogue with the economy is needed through the Chamber or the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia with compulsory membership and lower membership. Renovation of the assembly system should be carried out gradually on the basis of a well-prepared programme so that there are no possible side effects." Unfortunately, however, the applicant does not take into account what his own working group has proposed in its conclusions. The type of surveys according to the different methodologies carried out by the Chambers and other organisations and according to different samples of representative or multiple non-representatives gives different results, but is one of the single findings that respondents want as much as possible a uniform and effective chamber as normal, those who know what it is. With regard to membership, opinions are shared, which is understandable. Improving the functioning of the Chambers, including the greater impact on the decision-making of small and medium-sized enterprises, is necessary, but the proposed legal solution does not guarantee this. The proposal for a government law has stimulated intensive debates, which has already been mentioned within the assembly system or systems in almost all chambers, and it would be useful and wise for the government to take this into account meaningfully in building up or renovating the assembly system. A few more concrete comments at the conclusion. Inadequate and incomplete, even worse than in the present law, the objectives and tasks of the Chambers are defined in Article 6. Some preliminary and final provisions are extremely problematic and even constitutionally controversial: for example, the deadline for harmonising the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce is too short for 6 months. The provisions on the distribution and temporary use of assets are constitutionally contested. The provisions on permanent arbitration and the Honorary Court, which form an important part of the assembly system in all normal market and democratic countries, are very questionable. By the way, the President of permanent arbitration at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also makes an argument. The two-year operation of the arbitration panel is indeed envisaged, but remains open and uncertain as to what will happen next. Furthermore, the participation or integration of chambers in international organisations, in Eurochambre and in the global ICC is envisaged for two years; the question remains open. And the representation of Slovenia and the Slovenian economy in these prominent and influential institutions is very important. Nor do we have to determine whether or not these organisations will accept us. Let me finish with good faith. We propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government Coalition to examine, in order to avoid the harmful consequences of the adoption of the proposed law, the comments from the debate, comments and proposals made by the Chambers in their deliberations and analyses, and to re-examine the proposal of the Social Democrats on the basis of the system of organisation of the Chambers, which regulates professionally, systematically and comprehensively the organisation of the Chambers in the Republic of Slovenia, and on this basis prepares new, more appropriate solutions. Therefore, the most appropriate withdrawal of this bill or its rejection would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolič now has the floor, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u103	Well-welcome, presiding, respected minister with co-worker, respected colleague and colleague! The New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group supports the adoption of the bill on economic chambers. The adoption of the law in the New Slovenia Group is understood as the implementation of a programme in which we advocate optional membership. We are also making a promise, as we committed ourselves at the beginning of the mandate, that we will pay particular attention to the analysis of mandatory membership in the Chambers and to the advantages and risks of granting public powers to the Chambers. In 2005, the Ministry of Economy prepared an analysis of the existing assembly system, focusing on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, with proposals for improvements. The following result of this analysis in the New Slovenia Group is supported by the proposer, the Ministry of Economy. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy have repeatedly explained in the media that the process of reforming the assembly system begins where it is most necessary, saying that where the chamber and the membership are overturned each other. Part of the mandatory members of the chamber who regularly pay the membership fee - although we did not receive this information from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia in abundance - is waiting for how long the state will allow them to pay for something they do not see the benefits. They accept membership as an additional tax and will accept its abolition as one of the forms of tax reduction. Involvement in the Chamber of Commerce will be decided at their discretion when they are convinced of their economic interest in favour of membership. She'll just decide what I get for what I put in. This is also the voice of the economy. One of the Slovenian media announced in a publication in Entrepreneurship how they will decide to join the Chamber of Commerce if membership is voluntary. One of the answers: I am a member of both chambers, I do not want to leave any, I would like to know in advance what the conditions for entering the institution are, what the monthly membership will be and what we will get. But I expect to get at least as much as I pay my membership fees. This needs to be changed and what we support in the New Slovenia Group. Individual economic operators should be allowed to decide voluntarily on their membership in the Chamber. Thus, they will know what they gain or lose in their decision. If the Chamber of Commerce is working in the interest of its members, the cost of membership will be reimbursed quickly, even bloated. In our parliamentary group, we believe that it is necessary to build in the future on a private legal model for the organisation of chambers. The economy must be more or less subdued to the market, and the state should intervene in the economy only in areas where there is public interest. Today, we can say that all the debates so far on the nature of the Chambers show that the public-law model only wants to be maintained for reasons of compulsory membership. For example, when we look at the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, whether this public law model works in practice. We can see that it is not subject to a system of public servants; the Court of Auditors has control over them only to the extent that budgetary resources are spent, not to mention the application of the law on public procurement. The professional public estimates that the current developments concerning the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have triggered a public authorisation for the distribution of permits for road transport or suspicion of the distribution of these licences. I believe that the current Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia should in any event be substantially changed, although any major change would cause problems and costs. I am convinced that if the government were not absolutely necessary, it would not interfere with the assembly organisation. One of the reasons for the discontent of companies with the current assembly system is that the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia puts individual associations in a subordinate position and fosters a non-democratic authoritarian attitude. In a subordinate situation, not only small and medium-sized enterprises, but even economic activities. The Management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia shall take the most important decisions for the functioning of the associations and shall prevent or impede the independence and initiative of their administrative committees and various professional and interest groups. The proposed law for the protection of legal traffic protects the name of the chamber and in the transitional provisions solves the issue of the transitional period, which is considered by the profession to be the most worrying. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia remains the legal successor to the current chamber and to the physical distribution of assets among any newly created chambers also the guardian of the property. Within five months of the adoption of the law, a new statute must be recast and adopted. If the Chambers themselves do not distribute the assets, this is estimated to be worth around 7 billion dollars in the media, the government will do so within six months of the expiry of the deadline. The property of an existing chamber will freeze for two years. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will continue to exercise public powers, the work will continue with the Honorary Court and arbitration. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] membership in international organisations of these activities may be financed from common assets for two years. [[...]] In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support such a proposal for a law on economic chambers. Also possible positive additions, because we believe that in this way we leave to economic operators the decision to exercise interest and to obtain the necessary information. Thus, in New Slovenia we understand the role of a friendly country towards economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Janc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome and support the urgent changes in the Chamber of Economics, but at the same time we wonder whether this path is optimally mapped out by the proposer who proposed it in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the organisation of the economy in associations or chambers can have an important impact on the performance and competitiveness of the economy in the European and global markets. Slovenia is ahead of the euro. We are developing the urgent needs, the necessary reforms in the area of the economy, the tax system and social policy. Therefore, in itself, the question of whether this moment is most appropriate for these changes and transformations is being "encumbered" and the integration of economic operators has already been avoided and some results are showing. We are convinced that with the greatest sensitivity it is necessary to examine the appropriateness of the moment and how to reorganise and rationalise the functioning of the assembly system in Slovenia so that it is not unnecessary in a sensitive time [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] economics, infrastructures and professional support, institutions which are [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And they've been using it for decades. [[...]] This, in our view, is one of the legal concerns about how this material, which is very important, fundamentally changes the concept of the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce. Of course, we believe and believe that there is a need for change in the current system of the Chamber of Economics, but it is necessary to examine with all responsibility the consequences of the disruption of the system and to address the possible negative consequences. It is necessary to examine what it means for the economy to continue to keep the mandatory membership of both the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, while also allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to decide which chamber they will join. Such a change would preserve the advantage of our current assembly arrangements as well as the arrangements of European countries with a public-law model of assembly organisation, as well as the advantages known to private-law models in some European countries. We are aware that tradesmen have built an existing Chamber of Commerce over the decades from the Housing Association and are forced to re-create chambers of commerce, as proposed by the new law. Even if there is a need to do so, we reiterate the need to examine the appropriateness of the change just at the time of entry into the common monetary market. In particular, it is necessary to specify in the law the exercise of public powers, to establish representativeness and to define the interests of economic operators and to carry out other tasks in order not to change the system, the negative consequences in the economy. The proposal for the Preparatory Law on Economic Chambers does not define the long-term tasks of the Chambers in the field of economics, but only changes the model of the Parliamentary Response in Slovenia. The public-law assembly model, which gives the Chambers autonomy, professional and representative character and stable financial support in mandatory membership, is rapidly being transformed into an Anglo-Saxon system of private chambers. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party would also need a more thorough analysis of the organisation of all chambers in the Slovenian Economic Area and it would be prudent to decide on compulsory or optional membership and on the representativeness of representatives of economic interests. There is also a questionable decision to reform only one segment of the assembly organisation. What about the rest of them in the chamber? That is why the issue remains entirely open. The current assembly arrangements show a number of advantages of the public-law model and compulsory membership, in particular in the area of governance of public tasks and services, solidarity between economic operators and the organisation of international activities for the economy. The conclusions of economists, members of the Management Board and the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are also important, and so far a broad debate in the economic public has made clear some of the weaknesses that the Chamber must address, such as the change in the electoral system, the issue of high membership, the issue of effective regional organisation of the economy, the question of greater representation of representatives of the small economy in decision-making, the issue of assembly services and others. We believe that this initiative, and this proposal put forward by the proposer to the National Assembly, is well-intentioned, useful and necessary for the Slovenian economy. We also believe that their key orientations, that the Chamber must be organised in a modern and efficient manner, which will also be able to satisfy the interests of its members when it comes to voluntary membership. We are familiar with the state of the chambers in Slovenia, but we have a traditional model of public law, which is established by 19 economic and professional chambers, which are in one way or another interconnected. Public controversy has led to the need to renovate and amend the existing assembly system, which also reflects the type of weaknesses that have already been said and indicated in this debate today. We are convinced that these models, which we are thoroughly changing in this proposal for today's public debate, are the public-law chambers in the private chamber. I also believe that the English-American model, which, without compulsory membership, is aimed at a strong market interest attitude, is effective manufacturing with market service conditions, by providing membership, including concerns or representative, professional independent and or adequately territorially covering activities that are very rarely complemented by public powers or even public tasks. I believe that today's debate and subsequent discussions will give this proposal additional quality, which we think may be lacking in this proposal. Finally, even regional chambers that operate more successfully, in some cases less successful, are an important integration member of the economy in the regions and, within these options, certainly also assist the economy there. I believe that this can happen substantially differently in the future, that these things will simply be no more. I also believe that most Slovenian economists are such, at least in our environment, where it turns out that this volunteering is closer to them, simply because you connect, you unite when you are willing. When she's forced to, it's definitely a completely different story. And I believe that by volunteering, many will consider whether it is smart and meaningful and whether they see their volunteering, membership, and interest. If there is no interest in this, then there will certainly be no membership. This will also need to be organized by the chamber, adjusted, and a great deal of work done in a way that has to date. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support these changes, but we also believe that in this debate they will receive additional additions and a good analysis and take into account these positive and negative consequences which will be borne by this, in our opinion, a major change in the area of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In this way, analyses are made that positive effects can be used in improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and thus somehow voluntary membership in those organisations where the entrepreneur sees his own interest in the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The last Vice-President of Peca will present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u107	Your Honors are here! Thank you for your word. Several times today, in the context of the presentations of the views of the groups of Members, a dilemma has been raised as to what the purpose is and what the concept of the Chamber of Commerce is. According to my assessment, the question of compulsory or voluntary membership has been raised today and so far. To speak of a lack of debate in order to require more thorough reflection is, in my opinion, irresponsible to this national assembly, as I estimate that anyone representing the position of the Group is obliged to look at the progress that has been made so far. And, ladies and gentlemen, all those who are talking about the need for a more thorough reflection on a few years' delay before the Minister of Economy comes up with such a new proposal are in disregard of the fact that the State Assembly has already met twice with the Economic Chambers Act in 2004 and 2005, both by the proposer of the Slovenian National Party. During the plenary session, the National Assembly had already spoken and decided twice on this subject, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the working bodies, the working bodies concerned, the professional public, the lay-off public, all in order were involved in the legislative process. Whoever today will say that there is no analysis of the absence of studies, of the unintended consequences, and most importantly, that there are no projected ratings that will arise on the basis of the legislation adopted, has not looked at the current legislative procedure. It is irresponsible of Member groups, Members or Members that such an argument will serve them as a non-support to this law. Then the whole legislative procedure to any law could be argued with such ease. The task of the National Assembly is to reflect on matters, and the task of the National Assembly and Members and Members is, to the extent that there has already been an extensive debate, in which everyone in our society who is touched by the matter of the law has been involved, to admit it. It is not the task of the National Assembly to deny the existence of the past debate, but only one to admit it and, on the basis of the previous debate, to make it a fundamental and quality law. Please also allow me to clarify the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. When we talked about the purpose or concept of the Chamber of Commerce as an institution, it is our assessment that it is possible to divide it into three basic forms. Firstly, the purpose of the existence of an economic chamber as a government service, in other words the service of the government, or in third words, the kind words used today by those who oppose the law is so-called representativeness. The fact is that only the Chamber of Commerce, not its members, was used for the so-called period of representation of a particular part of the population engaged in a particular economic activity. However, we need to know, and we all know, that this was a talk partner, an institution of the Chamber of Commerce, but it was not a representative body or representative institution. If we can say for the first time that the purpose of the Chamber of Commerce has been to date - alone and in the national party, we sincerely hope that this purpose will be eliminated from now on - the second purpose was to serve the institution. So this service was the very institution of the Chamber of Commerce itself, which had this form of association - mandatory membership - solely so that there were a few hundred people employed, that money, input for the operation of this Chamber was obtained through members and that it started here and ended the purpose. The third concept, or what we think should be sought by the legislative branch of power, and undoubtedly the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is already seeking to do so, is that the chamber becomes a service for members. We all know that we have all been so present in the debates that the basic purpose that he has been hiding so far is to satisfy the interests of the members. Individuals, economic operators joining together, and so far all of them have to join together in the Chamber of Commerce, should also get something in return for this. Not only those who are placed above the curve by the number of employees or the size of the company, but all those who pay the obligatory membership fee. And what is mandatory membership? We have repeatedly stressed in 2004 and 2005, when we adopt or consider the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, that compulsory membership is one of the remains that are most easily compared with compulsory membership in the Communist Party. According to our assessment, the mandatory membership did not bring what was basically meant by a service called the Economic Chamber, which will assert the interests of its members vis-à-vis the government and through which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the legislator would receive the necessary information on the breathing and life of economic operators. This feedback was not provided by the Chamber of Commerce in its current form of organisation. She did not give the content, although she always kept her content behind the word transparency and the word representativeness, but from this, ladies and gentlemen, there was nothing. All those Members and Members who have at least little contact with citizens, whether natural or legal, know that the members were dissatisfied with the Chamber of Commerce, that they were exclusively paid membership fees, the tax that was compulsory, and, as a rule, that members were not satisfied with the empty telephone conversations when they were sent from one office of the Chamber of Commerce to another, had absolutely nothing. The next, at least according to our assessment, is a very important emphasis that should be taken into account today, the functioning of the assembly system. Not just the system of operation of the Chamber of Commerce, but the entire assembly system. Despite the fact that we have 21 laws under Slovenian law, each of which carries the creation of a chamber, the fact that the roof law and the roof chamber are only one. The Chamber of Commerce is called the Chamber of Commerce, the roofing law is the law on the Chamber of Commerce. I have 21 chambers written before me, including the Chamber of Housing of Slovenia, which is the only one in its definition that has no so-called mandatory membership in its rules. And it is sad that when individual Members speak on behalf of their own groups or in their own name, when the area touches them when they feel the problem of the operation of one of these 21 chambers, they speak negatively about the so-called mandatory membership. When it comes to changing the roof law, however, they take a completely different position. In my opinion, these cases are very empty, puffy speech by individual Members. Today we have the power, today we have the opportunity to amend the Law on the Chamber of Commerce, to change that fundamental principle of compulsory membership. I don't think it's been 30 days since one of the Members spoke about the so-called House of Architecture and Space. In her speech, this Member was indignant at the lobbying that is taking place within this Chamber, about the fixing of prices that would be much cheaper on the market, and that members of this Chamber are complaining because they would provide their services much cheaper if they did not have the tariffs prescribed by this Chamber. The answer then was that you wanted - you didn't want him to do anything in this area, but that the dilemma is very interesting. But he led us, who were present at the time, and if memory doesn't deceive me, there were six Members and Members present, he led us to a change in the chamber system within our country. We're meeting with this system today. When it came to a process or a thorough reflection as an argument, why not join in supporting that law. Allow me to introduce you to the living room. On 2 February 2005, not so far back, in this same composition, the same National Assembly, the same Minister was present, we spoke on the 1st item of the agenda, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Chamber of Economics of the Republic of Slovenia, the second reading. You all have a magnetic record. On 23 February 2005, a second review of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Commerce also took place. A year earlier, or 2.12.2004, the same National Assembly spoke about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Chamber of Commerce. A few days later, 18.1. in the framework of the legislative and legal service and the home working body of the national assembly spoke of this same issue. 7.2.2005 The Committee on the Economy, at its 3rd regular session, discussed the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Chamber of Commerce. Here we have before us a document from 28.1.2005, when an opinion was given by the Commission on the Economy and the Commission on Small Economy and Tourism to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Economics. In short, it was also addressed by the State Council. Of course, I can also list these documents for you, but let me be just two more. 1.2.2005 The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also played with matter. This government, which we now have in power and on this day or period, has promised the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider a proposal for an economic chamber bill, which we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure by the Members of the Slovenian National Party in order to arrive in due time with a more comprehensive proposal for a law that will touch or monitor approximately the same material, is to bring the dead institution called the Chamber of Commerce closer to the users so far. So that the Ministry will change the content of the institution, transform its objective and its principles, so that it will no longer be dedicated to itself in exchange for the fact that ladies and ladies live in a beautiful building, pay personal income and only cooperate with those members who are big and beautiful, in other words only with companies that move at macro level. The Minister then announced in January, February, from then on within the Ministry at least as far as I am aware, Minister, please correct me if this does not hold more than an extensive debate. All those who were not actively involved in this debate were able to follow it through the daily newspaper, through other daily media, but through this information I know that the so-called projects, analyses and all the opinions and views expressed so far have followed. So that from this period forward, and this is more than a year, there has been an extensive debate, so once again from this title, shame on those Members and Members who have not been able to see in this period of years that public debate has been held in our house for more than a year. Let me also point out: in the framework of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Economic Chamber Act, a negative decision was adopted in the home working body. Allow so much about what others point out as a positive, qualitative argument that little time has been said about this mother and that in fact no one knows about the consequences. The consequence that we have today is to create an institution, an association, however you want, which will actually depend on its members, and that is also right. If people are dissatisfied with such an institution, they will abandon it. If they're satisfied, this institution will bring people around. In such a case, neither the Director nor the entire management of the Chamber of Commerce shall be afraid for their future. On our part, and according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, it is very important to point out that this is one of those legal materials that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has promised and has kept. Minister Vizjak has promised to amend, amend the law and, of course, a new approach, a new concept in the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce, once again, as umbrella organisations, such as those following the example of all the other 10 and several chambers within our country. On this side, colleague Vizjak, do not consider it anything, all congratulations, in the National Party we are pleased that you have summarized the idea and concept of the Slovenian National Party, you may have completed it, and in any way the National Assembly meets this list today. As regards the continuation of the content and future of the Chamber of Commerce, as defined in the proposal for a law. According to our assessment, it is right that the legislator, as the executive branch of power, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has given an opportunity, a time period, a dimension in which the Chamber of Commerce will have to present the content of its work or to illustrate to its former or previous members the quality of its work; in particular, that it has served them, represented them and established them. According to our assessment, it has been many years since the Chamber of Commerce was one of those solid institutions that kept its eyes closed to its members, and only obtained financial resources from them through compulsory membership, taxation, tax or whatever you want. But she didn't show what was meant to be. And if you allow us to make a final assessment, no one in any chamber in our country has anything to fear if they keep their words on the quality of their services. If these words are not true - and I believe they do not, unfortunately - then the ladies and gentlemen who run these institutions will have to imagine whether they will go elsewhere or change their way of work. And if we have introduced competitiveness and all the elements that define a positive economy into all the other areas or try to introduce them, then we must also introduce them in this area. However, it is not people with the knowledge and behaviour that economic operators are already overly burdened by the entire tax system, but also to impose in advance payments made under compulsory membership under the Act on the Chamber of Commerce or the system of membership in the Chamber of Commerce. If individual economic operators see an interest in the association, they see an interest in joining such an organisation or staying, they will do so. But what matters most is their decision. And the decision of the Slovenian National Party is to support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Minister, the first to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I would like, perhaps in the absence of repetition, to answer some of the dilemmas, some of the questions already raised in the presentation of the views of the groups. The first ever present dilemma is quite simple. In particular, there are many oaths of urgency and need for regulation in this country. Many, including the government and our ministry, trust the Slovenian economy and believe that it will be organised as best for them. That is why we are against the necessary regulation. And here many believe that they know more and that the government knows more than the economy knows what is good for the economy. I believe that it is true for economic operators today, when the economy faces a competitive fight at home in Slovenia, within the framework of the 15th and the global world, that one basic principle is in place to assess the investment over the amount that this investment returns. It is said that everyone goes to some cost if he expects at least as much benefit or more as this cost transfers, "return of investment". It's an economic theory, not whether we know it's going to be better, economies of scale and so on. Economic operators will decide after this concept and assess whether they are worth something or not, and God forbid, please, in the market economy, force the economy into something that is not worth the economy, it is a disaster for this economy and not to force the economy into this collapse. We therefore propose a private system of assembly organisation, so that economic operators can freely, interestingly, voluntarily combine to lay down their own rules of the game on organisation, as regards the number. Why would they prescribe it to me because we think it's better for them? That's not true. They will tell them what is justified, effective and why. Look, there's been quite a lot of misinformation here, nicely said, that there's a trend in public law chambers, that's what it is, and that there's an experiment by the government that's more or less unique. On the contrary. See, Belgium, Great Britain, Ireland, Denmark, new countries or countries with higher or highest economic growth today have such a model. In economics, comparable countries also have such a model. It is precisely the countries listed here, which today have the least economic growth or the lowest, that have a public-law system of assembly organisation and are facing demonstrations and the need for reforms. So, who is Slovenia for example, rapidly developing, open, liberal, as far as access to competition and the development of the economy of the country is concerned; or who will have to become one if they want to catch up with emerging economies? I believe that Slovenia can set the example of Ireland, Denmark, many of the new Member States, especially after economic growth, Belgium and so on. These have a private system of assembly organisation, as we propose. And please, don't imagine that most countries are in public law, it's not true; about half is, but the trend is in the direction of the private justice system, it's in the direction of what we're proposing. There was a huge dilemma about representation. To date, this has not been a problem, since we had one chamber and it was representative of the leadership or authorities, the institution to the government, to the other interlocutors, not people, not economic operators. And we have seen this and we are still reading to the Chamber of Economics that the gap, the gap between the interests of the members and the activities of the Chamber as an institution is considerable, this gap is considerable. And if you ask me when we are talking about economic solutions, I will also ask the economy, economic operators themselves, 'perse', because I do not believe in the institution, whether it is looking at solutions through the prism of the institution, not through the prism of the economy. That's a fact, that's how it is today. And that is why we do not want a visual representation, so to speak, of the representativeness that lies behind the institution. We want real answers to what the economy needs. Therefore, for the sake of this, we did not deal with representativeness because it will be determined by the one who needs representativeness. For example, if the Ministry of Education finds that it needs an economic position in the design of subjects, school programmes, it will also call on the one who knows he is representative and will set out in its regulation who is representative. I do not dare to claim and here to copy representation not to the number of companies, not to anything. Why would you say that? Slovenian steel companies are very few, let's say on the fingers of two hands. And now, if we write that the number is representative of what is above 30 economic operators, then they will never be representative at all, because of course there are not so many. However, if we say that representation by gross domestic product number is a limit, then no trade association will be representative if it is not with Mercator or those large systems, which is not right again. Having some average measure for such specific distribution of economic operators by sector in Slovenia is twofold. And so we came from an approach to who to ask or who to determine who is representative; this law, which is a general one, which is a foundation for organisation or who needs representation. That is why we have left this determination to those in need. It's about us doing some demolition and stuff. What's the law gonna do? The law has already produced a hugely positive proposal, and the Chambers have begun to coordinate, to adapt slightly more to their membership, to improve. The Chamber of Commerce has already proposed changes, the Chamber of Commerce is rushing after some changes, although in nature we do not see much. But this proposal, this concept has brought about some unrest. Work has begun on positive changes on how to actually follow the concept. It is said that this law has already produced some positive consequences. And believe me, there will be a lot more when all the relevant authorities in the institution realize that it is actually going to go, and that will probably be after the first reading. At that time, they will begin to invite their current members to remain future members. And that is what we want, that this Chamber of Commerce, which now remains, will convince most of its members that they will want to assess that their "return of investment" is such that they will remain in it. And that is the case, and we will have a strong chamber and there will be no problems with representation, not with representation before international institutions, not with communication with the government or with anything. But this, dear colleagues, depends on the Chamber of Commerce, whether this is a Slovenian economy, will be able to convince them that it is necessary. If she can't be convinced, we don't need her. We don't need it. We need organised representatives of indeed economic interest, we do not need an administrative institution that is considered to do so. It's about public authority. The public powers exercised by the Chamber of Commerce today can be granted through concession to any association. Many economists and we who have done the analysis have estimated that the prices paid by economic operators for these public powers exercised by the Chamber of Commerce are above the economic prices, in order to make it cheaper to do so. And we believe that if we go through a public invitation to search for these contractors, we will find them. Therefore, it is not to be afraid that this service will either be diverted, transferred to the country or to anyone, because today the economy is already paying for it, according to my assessment. The eternal dilemma and eternal thought hanged in the air, that is to say, why only an economic chamber, why not the rest of the chamber. It's all about the next thing. This law establishes a foundation for the transformation of all chambers of commerce and is therefore also referred to as the Economic Chambers Act. In short, it is the basis for the renovation of all chambers of commerce. We have made our move, as Member Peca has already said, because we have also promised this in this House before Members and Members when adopting or having a negative attitude towards their proposal, which would really cause a lot of problems in practice. That's why we wanted to deal with this whole thing, one year since then, gentlemen, a huge analysis, a huge controversy, and whoever is here today saying that it hasn't been enough, then wants to change under the terms and wants to stay that way and change forever so that nothing changes. I think that a lot of analyses have been done, surveys, solutions, discussions on each segment individually, and that there is an optimal result on the table. That is why we are also planning to amend the trade law this year, but we respect the specificities of craftsmen and craftsmanship in relation to companies. Anyone who has made an objective comparison between these two organisations sees that it goes to the craftsmen for a number of reasons. For a number of reasons. For the first time, because only the representative body of this Chamber is completely different from its members, both on the ground and directly, as in the case of the Chamber of Commerce. Another time. Entrepreneurship or micro-enterprise is specific and offers and needs higher-a-vis economic operators some other general support or some administrative, professional upgrade. Today, a craftsman who deals with, I don't know, roofing, doppelgangering needs, in fact, a service higher than maybe some general matters, both through the magazine and regional exhibitions, which are also in smaller towns in Slovenia and it can be made available to him. I don't mean to say everything's fine there. On the contrary, even there, we believe that there is a need to change, and that is why we also anticipate changes. However, we want to make these changes a little bit more gradual than in this case. As far as the agri-agricultural chamber is concerned, I attach to everyone who has been critical to this, and I am critical myself. Fortunately or unfortunately, however, this area belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I have repeatedly warned this ministry that it would be more radical to cut down on the right and prudently higher levels of organisation of agricultural and agricultural activities. And I believe there are changes to this subject. The tsunami was mentioned again. What kind of tsunami? Look, in this case the country is moving away, we don't want to regulate it. And you're telling us we want to do something. I'm sorry, I don't understand. That's illogical. We want this to be an interesting, voluntary association of employers who will lay down the rules of the game themselves in these very broad frameworks that we are setting up by this law. If we really wanted to take over or any greater involvement in these associations of the economy, we would be more regulated but not less regulated than we are doing now. So these are, in fact, political footnotes that this is the continuation of some government engagement in the economy, because it is the opposite - this is the withdrawal of the country from the economy if we want to deregulation of this organisation if we want to establish voluntary, self-initiative organisation in this area. This is a fact and this is also the direction of this law. Once again, do not underestimate economic operators, tell them when they will unite, what will cost them more and what will cost them no more and whether the costs of this new system will be lower or higher than before. The costs will be the one the economy will want and recognise, no more and no less. Now the costs are as determined by someone. And that's not right. With regard to certain disputes related to arbitration concerning the resolution of disputes. In fact, we believe that it would be possible to listen to proposals that have also been made on the table of the members of the groups. With regard to this specific area, for example, arbitration, we should deal with a special law if necessary. Why am I talking if that's necessary? This is because two will actually show up during the transitional period of two years. Firstly, it will prove that the Economic Chamber with its authorities and its personnel will be so capable that it will feel that it has to do something to convince its members to stay. And if, in fact, the Chamber manages to maintain most of the membership, with a renewed programme entrusted to it by the economy, then the economic operators will remain and there will be no problems at all. These problems will not be problems, because it will be clear exactly where arbitration will continue to work and who will represent the Slovenian economy in front of international institutions. And that's what we want. Why do we want to do this? Not because we have one large chamber, but because we know that the economy trusts this chamber. Today the economy does not trust this chamber. All the surveys we have done, which you can read, which have been done on one side and on the other, have made it very clear that the economy does not trust the Chamber of Commerce, clearly as a white day. We want to give them a retrial. Take another step forward. Prepare a new program, then maybe you'll be trusted. If he trusts you, we are pleased, and we know that the Chamber of Commerce will be a member, not as it is today. Because I really don't understand the impressions that we're interfering with the economy in a bureaucratic, unilateral way, without considering the costs. On the contrary, this is what we do to ensure that the economy is optimally organised, just as it sees and knows. This is a few answers to these challenges. I think I could, I'll say it again if I have to, but I hope not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u110	Yeah, mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u111	Look, Mr President, I would very much like you to correct in the documents of the National Assembly the statement that a government representative has just spoken. Indeed, he spoke to the Minister of Economic Affairs and spoke only of economic issues. Mr. Minister, here you represent the government as a whole. You can't explain here that you have a different opinion than Mrs. Minister of Agriculture or, I don't know, any Minister is responsible for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We're looking at the Chamber of Commerce Act. I am very sorry that 1/3 of the members of this law speak only of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. By deciding whether you are speaking as a representative of the government and defending the government's proposal in its entirety and also by telling what the government will do, but not by saying luck or accident, I am talking only about the economic ministry, not covering the areas of agriculture or even the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Look, we're in the National Assembly, and if we don't rename you from a government representative to something else, to a representative of only an economic minister, then it's very difficult to continue the debate. We are really talking here about the Law on Economic Chambers, which unfortunately has only the only subject of decommissioning the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia. Unfortunately. If you, as a representative of the government, were to say that all of this would apply to other chambers, then I could still agree with you. However, this is how you say something like the Minister of Economy, not as a representative of the government, so my procedural proposal is as follows: whether you are renamed a representative of the Ministry of Economy or you are talking about the integrity of this law as proposed by the government. And the government has not proposed any changes in the transitional and final provisions for other chambers, which it could have done if you really wanted to introduce a private legal way of merging in Slovenia for all chambers, but not to break up only the Chamber of Commerce with this law. President, my procedural proposal is trying to tell the Minister of Economy that he is here as a representative of the government as a whole, so don't let another minister or any other minister do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Of course, I am also in line with the material on the table, the government representative. And I never said what one of the members of the government didn't do, so I should do. All I have said is that the law on the table, the Law on Economic Chambers, falls within the area governed by the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia so far, and that the area which has been mentioned here is the area for which another member of the government is responsible. That is why I also said why we have undertaken the renovation of the assembly system gradually and in this first step, and that the second step has already been announced. It's a craftsman's room. And I also said in which direction the changes are about to go. I don't think that was the question. That it was more of an obvious and abuse of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u114	I'm asking for peace in the hall. I let Mr. Squill finish his thought because I didn't know where he was going. We can't fix the magnetogram back. Mr. Secretary, may I finish my sentence? [[...]] The Minister speaks as it is written. Whatever someone has to read to him, please say this in the debate, not in such a way as to refer to a procedural proposal that is impossible in itself. We are continuing the debate and I repeat my usual request that those who do not wish to discuss, because I do not see many in the Chamber, that you communicate this to me or to the other President in due time. I'm asking if Mr. Hwauc would like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u115	I'll take my five minutes. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will start by speaking a lot about representativeness, Mercator also mentioned, and I would like to put it in his mouth, that it is not possible to prejudge things further and that, given the practice or consequences of these deregulation innovations, there may be a representative of the economic chamber of golfers. I mentioned this because you also mentioned Mercator and last August this actually happened. I'd say no, and I'd say it's not about someone knowing more, or regulating needs or things in the economy. It's something else. This way of changing the assembly system is about whether it is even acceptable, whether it will be possible for the economy, through this association of the Chamber of Economics, or whether the Chambers of Economic Affairs, for example, to participate in the discussion of the budget, since it is about redistribution of national income, social policy, labour market, health care and so on. By this way, which is now proposed, it can happen that, as with trade unions, the government will now no longer have an interlocutor. And in this direction, my debate will go now. The bill, which is proposed, deals mainly with certain status issues, but does not address the key problems that should be addressed because of the specific nature of the chambers. Let me begin by saying that I am on the side of those who advocate the drafting of a system law on chambers, and I am against the current excessive deregulation in this assembly area, which is mainly due to a general political climate and the ideas of various reformers. And also in the area of the assembly system, of course, we have reformers. Let me begin by stressing that in most countries, European countries, there is an established model with compulsory membership of the Chamber, as it is only so possible that the Chamber of Commerce or Chamber of Commerce may act against the State as a representative of the entire economy. Otherwise, it can happen and it is likely that if this proposal is adopted, it will also happen to us that true partners, partners to a country are only strong companies or few of them, which would only defend their own interests, not the interests of smaller or even marginal enterprises. And this is the case from last August. Whatever the organisation of the chamber, their main task is to protect and represent the interests of the economy over the country, not some cesovo organisation by sector. It will happen that I will once again give the case that they will have 50 Czech ways of organising the assembly system. In most countries, compulsory membership is also introduced in so-called professional chambers, to be lawyers, to be doctors and notaries and so on. If we are trying to behave and act in a European way, and it is often heard by the government and the law-makers that we must act in a European way, then of course there is no dilemma here. They were exposed to two countries today, and it was exposed to half of it, but it is likely to be more on the part of those who have established a mandatory membership of the Chamber. The representation of the economy vis-à-vis the country, the taking over of administrative tasks in the economic field are clearly two legitimate tasks that can only be done well by the Association of Economic Chambers. Unfortunately, there's no one else who can do it better than them. For the performance of these delegated tasks, at least in my opinion and in the opinion of anyone else, compulsory membership is required as it can only be determined, as you said, by the economic interest on a single line. In addition, the proposaler’s emphasis that the National Assembly, by law, can regulate or decide a particular area of assembly organisation, determine whether it is compulsory or voluntary and so on, which appears several times in the debate, only indicates that it is primarily a matter of politicisation of the issue itself, since it is more than obvious that compulsory membership, and this has already been exposed today, I will point out once again, the preservation in some other chambers. We have a proposal from the government today, and I see this proposal as a proposal from the government that does not fully address this problem. So the problems are being tackled in an exclusive, exclusive partial way. That's why I mentioned at the outset that I'm in favor of those who advocate a system law on chambers. It is therefore justifiable to ask how with a larger number of, for example, branch chambers the partner country, the one true interlocutor on the part of the economy, what you mentioned at the outset is that the main "point". Or the purpose is quite the opposite, namely to radically cut this cord between the economic interest and the political decisions taken by the government in this national assembly. I mentioned earlier that the economy through this association actively does not represent interests in full and does not participate in the debate, for example, as I have given an example of the discussion on the budget. It is also obvious that it has been reduced overall only to participate in the preparation of some of the proposals for the so-called ‘resort minister’, not even to the government, but to individual departments within the government. Thus, it is another intention of crushing the interest of the economy towards the country, the government, the current authorities, etc. It's a typical case, I have to say here, non-economic thinking. In view of all the above, I believe that the legislator's thinking is useful, that something needs to be done in organising the assembly system, but this is in general, so I am advocating a systemic and not taking the lead in some prestigious political'stache'. That's actually what this is about. And it is precisely because of this wrong starting point that solutions are proposed, which are underdeveloped and believe that they will cause a lot of problems in implementing or implementing this bill. Today, at least two have been mentioned, which will not be so easy, it is arbitration and it is also a lot of other things, which will of course be major problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Although the debate is not yet very long, it is substantively very varied, and we all agree more or less that this law needs to be changed in this area. I'd like to point out some things that haven't been good so far. The current Chamber of Commerce is characterised by centralisation as well as central management and financial management, which is also central. The lack of freedom of associations is also evident. In particular, smaller members, minorities, are dissatisfied. Service activity is neglected in the Chamber. More about this is said by the minister and we have heard the ideal that we could pursue, is this one, and we are also trying to pursue it, that membership is voluntary, that everyone who pays membership for this is expecting something, not just that basic deposit, but substantially more than the basic investment. And this is a true chamber, if it returns substantially more than a basic contribution in membership. For those who will work well, there is simply no problem, since the members themselves will join the Chamber with their own interest and thus finance the Chamber, and the Chamber will give them support. It is appropriate to give the organisation so far an opportunity to change and therefore a transitional period. During this transitional period, we all want the current Economic Chamber to adapt to the situation and give its membership what they expect of it and that membership will remain voluntary. Of course, if he gets what he expects of her, he will remain a member of this chamber, and then there is no problem. If it does not adapt, membership or economic operators will join in new chambers, seek their own interests there, and new chambers will be created, such as through the interests of membership, which will satisfy the interests of economic operators. There's nothing new to say, because there's been a lot of talk about it. I am putting myself on this side that there is a need to make changes in this area, and this qualitative change in the direction of getting the country out of the economy, that there is as little regulation as possible to give the economy sufficient room for manoeuvre so that it can decide freely. And one of these things is definitely this law. Previously, we heard from a fellow Member of the Council, Dr. Lakhovnik, that no lunch was free. Of course, I'll give him the right one - no lunch is free. But it's very wrong if you pay and you don't get lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you. Although I have written here, Mr Brenčič, that Mr Prevc will be in place of you, and he is not. So, let's move on. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Minister of Internal Affairs [[he's not here.]] Mr. Vice President! In view of the fact that my colleagues have already said to a large extent the position of the Social Democrats before me and I agree with them myself, I would like to say a few sentences myself, a few words. The proposed law on the regulation of chambers of commerce, I am sure, will have a number of negative consequences for the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, notably the long term. I'm talking about small, medium and large businesses. One of the main mistakes is that the government of this assembly system has made a major partial move. And I hope to predict that this is some kind of political project. I could simply say that it is necessary to occupy another institution, to head its main members and continue to rule. I believe, given the experience this year, that the government has been a part of this and that people in institutions as in companies have given up on personal reasons. That is why I think that, even in this case, in the case of the Chamber of Commerce, it would be possible to resolve this and not have to destroy an institution. But I could say that in this case, politically compatible indisputable chambers will have a privileged and elite status in the future. Here I am primarily referring to the Chamber of Agriculture and Economics and once again another Chamber of Commerce. The contradiction of government measures in strengthening economic development is incomprehensible. If the government is walking in Slovenia and is talking about how it creates a good tide for entrepreneurship, especially in this direction, to spend money on infrastructure management, it is unclear to me how, on the other hand, it easily eliminates the so-called soft measures, including advice both in the establishment of a company, advice on the development of an enterprise, financing and could also include. I personally believe that there is no economic growth in companies unless the company is supported by knowledge, if the company is not focused on development, if it is not in the company of innovation, creativity and if the company is not informed. In a way, all this information, but in all these years, the Chamber of Economics has dedicated its support to these companies. Of course, it was also up to the entrepreneurs themselves, the economists themselves, how they were able to absorb or draw this information. I also have to say criticism at the Chamber of Economics that, in all these years, the Chamber of Economics has somehow not been able to get close to small businesses, small companies. This is also my criticism of this Chamber of Commerce, but this is not the reason why the Chamber of Economics is easily abolished. I think that the government is going this way to simply end it as it is today's Chamber of Commerce. I think that the Chamber of Commerce, either with this team or with another team, is capable of reorganizing itself, reshaping itself and offering what entrepreneurs expect from it. That is why I could sometimes say that, in large cases, the Chamber of Commerce has sometimes lost ground under its feet, but I say this in a parable, and once again I think that the Government has not done the most wisely. In the Social Democrats, we are convinced that the government with such a law does not go in the right direction to strengthen the Slovenian economy in Europe. I think that only a good and strong organised Chamber of Economics can, I will say, be a good basis for economic societies in Europe to fight in this global market and I think the Chamber of Economics is capable of helping these companies. I believe that companies will not have support, however, which is now represented by the government. While it can only be criticized in life, I must say that this time we have also drawn up a system-wide law governing the chambers of commerce, all three of them, and that our proposal for a government or a competent minister knows very well. However, according to the known system, this proposal was easily rejected and followed by the government. That is why I would call on the government once again to dialogue to finally try to reach a solution that will go primarily towards greater economic growth, towards better economic development, because the economy itself is the one that can provide greater prosperity for all people in Slovenia with its good development. I think the easiest thing in life is to break down, but it's hard to build. And by this law, we are sort of breaking down some good foundation, but it could probably be even better, but I think if we take this step today in order to adopt this law, then the Chamber of Commerce will never be in that form again. And that's not good for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! I think it is difficult to add anything more essential to the very strong and well-founded debate of the Minister, but I will add some summaries myself. In Slovenia, many things have changed in the economic and economic sphere over the past 15 years. Unfortunately, these flashy and intense changes were not followed by the assembly system. Under very difficult economic conditions, our economy needs some kind of support, some help, some service to such organisations as chambers. We cannot provide such a service with such an outdated and rigid system. On the one hand, we want to imitate successful countries such as Ireland, Denmark and Finland, and on the other hand we are still advocates of a tough assembly system. I will focus on some of the problems that we have seen mainly at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. It has been said that this is a very non-democratic and authoritarian organisation, impulses, initiatives from certain types of economy, I am thinking mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular of the service activity that is growing in the world and also in us, but the service activity is provided mainly by smaller systems and not large conglomerates, which have a dominant influence in the functioning and management of the Chamber in the current state. The Chamber, on the one hand, with its tough system, initiated both fast-growing economic exercises and was instead of a useful and fast service rather hinders or without the need to invest money. There were a lot of comments in the area of financing. In fact, small and medium-sized enterprises paid membership fees and therefore received nothing. I'm referring to my colleague Pike, who actually ran out of lunch. The success of the assembly system requires, of course, an increase in the impact of businesses, as they are users, service users and services provided by the assembly system. In addition, several suspicions of irregularities in the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were mentioned. One such suspicion, a great deal of smoke, was the ink poured over the issue of traffic permits across the European Union. Even though there was no suspicion or evidence of any crime, the operation was certainly ineffective and there was a whole lot of dissatisfaction in the area of motorists. In the end, there's something else I'd like to say. How the year has passed since I found that the Chamber of Economics is also concerned - of course on the account and with the money of its disinvolved members - with things that do not concern it at all. When I returned from Berlin, I read in Finance that the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce had given a guarantee for the performance of the Serbian Estradnica Cece Raznatović, when it was rejected at the border in Slovenia. And then the Chamber of Commerce engaged and gave a guarantee and made this concert possible. I don't think that's part of her activity and that this is an unnecessary waste of membership money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you so much for the opportunity, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you! Today we've heard that there are two types of assembly. And the private chambers of the Anglo-American model are also becoming dominant in Europe. Volunteering is important in this model, not an obligation or coercion. Just as volunteering likes every human being, every living thing, that's probably what happens to economic operators. If the Chamber of Commerce is as good as we have heard today as some claim, then of course there is no fear that it would not have its membership in the future so that it would not exist in the future. If the Chamber of Commerce has really done so much and done so for its membership, then of course there will be no large rash and it will be able to function completely normally. For members, however, it will be felt that the members of the Chamber can be fully on a voluntary basis so that they can join in an association that is completely voluntary, beneficial. If the Chamber of Commerce was so ascetic in the use of funds with its employees, if it did work in such modest premises and at modest wages, then membership would be rewarded by restoring membership and membership, but this time voluntary. And if the interests of small and large entrepreneurs, members and management of the Chamber are indeed common interests, then this chamber will, of course, be able to operate on a voluntary basis. And since the membership will be voluntary, the summit of the Chamber will be made possible by the fact that the GZS will have as many members as possible to live and survive, to make an appropriate effort and to perform the role provided for by the law or the role expected of its members. And if there are problems with membership, there will still be a donation available to the members and sympathizers of the Chamber of Commerce. If the Economic Chamber convinces its members that it is working for their benefit and their welfare, its members will also remain. According to my assessment, something much for the oligarchy at the top of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will not change. The GZS will be able to retain its name, stay in Esmeralda, and be able to award the assembly awards in the future. There are also some such economists in Koroška who have been accused by the police of economic crime or money laundering, and they have not received a strange award from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. My colleagues were wondering what was behind this law. I'd be wondering what's in front. The government wants this Chamber of Commerce to work better than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr. Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Compulsory membership is slowly goodbye, which is of course good for the Slovenian economy, which is good for the greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy if it is possible to compare exactly one comparison of what this means, how much money is saved by the Slovenian company. For example, a company with 100 employees is about 30 grand a month, which is 360 grand a year. This is also money for such a company, and during this time of fighting, competitiveness, every tolar you thus save, when you are no longer a member of such a chamber, is certainly useful and well-intentioned, and this was also probably the goal of the government and, ultimately, also the goal of the coalition that it has set itself to try to analyse the obligation or non-membership. This has also been shown in the end by the analysis when it is found that this matter is better in the way that membership is optional. Certainly, market decisions, competitiveness of the economy, better conditions, a more friendly country to this economy. This is also the basis with which we all want to help together in these times of the Slovenian economy. I think we are on the right track and that this is one of those steps that will be followed by how much more friendly the country is to the Slovenian economy. Renovation is certainly necessary, and we are expected by entrepreneurs, the economy and I am confident that there are particularly smaller entrepreneurs who have been very, very dissatisfied with the existing Chamber of Commerce. While we know that large systems have supported and probably benefited more from this economic chamber system. However, the new way of the Chamber will certainly have certain advantages that are more market-oriented and that will certainly give the new Chamber some new organisational approaches, a new way of working and will certainly prove to this entrepreneur, this member with his work, with his professionalism, or they will lose membership or not have it at all. This is what goes on at the dikes, which goes on, like Slovenian companies are on the sill daily, so will the chamber on the dill, and will have to prove itself daily with their work, how and how to survive. But it is difficult to understand, I do not know, as much anger as some Members in this National Assembly have on the existing system of the Chamber of Commerce, whether they have ever paid membership fees or other moments in companies, but it is difficult to understand that so much hatred can be poured out through an existing chamber, which was not so bad again. I was the 12 principal myself, but if you used it, you got the services back if you didn't use them, it was your problem. But it wasn't that bad, and I'm talking about the past chamber, which, of course, is still valid and will still be valid for a while. These things sound so strange in this national convention. I believe and certainly will also exist tomorrow, I am deeply convinced of this, and certainly with less membership, which is also probably understandable and logical, I also believe with a different organisation and also unfortunately with significantly less employees than today. It's some kind of tax that this chamber will pay in some way. Therefore, the concept in general, as I have discussed before, is a positive step towards the welfare of the Slovenian economy, to competitiveness and in general to what this government has set itself as an important goal at this time of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. If there is a law, then I can find out in this law that the minister and, of course, the government doesn't know what he's doing. When we read the Rapporteur and explain what is the reason for the adoption of this law, we see that it is a matter of public controversy in previous years, especially in recent months, and then there is a need to renovate the existing assembly system. Of course, a comprehensive system change of the assembly system also requires a search for a more appropriate system framework. This is what is written in the reasons for this, and many times in law we face the problem that a law, especially if the opposition proposes it, is not appropriate because it does not have a comprehensive solution. Minister, this law does not have a comprehensive solution, you wrote it yourself in your own explanation and in the reasons why this law was created at all. So you studied the entire assembly system, in the end you agreed to change only the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. You've already said in the meantime that there is a specifics in the Chamber of Commerce. Also in the process of examining this law, the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture has already announced that this Chamber is not the same as the Chamber of Commerce and cannot be compared. This is a solution outside the context of comprehensive solutions, which the government is primarily advocating. Here we can definitely talk about the fact that, at a time when the government is talking about wanting to get out of the economy, it also wants to get rid of a serious interlocutor. The government withdraws from the economy and therefore loses its influence on the economy. If he wants to continue to take responsibility for the economy, as does the government, it would be logical to want a serious interlocutor who will direct and also make concrete proposals. With this change, when we move from the public law form of the Chamber to the private legal chamber, and I stress that there is no valid reason for this to be carried out in Slovenia. Nowhere. With this change, of course, it goes a long way towards organizing a chamber, and the government will surely lose or gain in such a way that it will have no one to coordinate with. And that is the key reason, in my opinion, that the government does not really want to talk to the economy in a way that would help us get really good solutions, but wants to hide in its decisions based on data that cannot be verified. The Economic Chamber systematically collects many data and can also confirm or reject many of the government's decisions and, of course, if it rejects them, it also directs them to make these decisions better in the future. What I am particularly concerned about is that the amendment of this law will certainly add to the loss of areas that do not have strong companies. What the Minister said was that the Chamber acted solely and only in the interest of strong companies, I say that all those areas in Slovenia that do not have strong companies will lose very, very much with the amendment of this law. There will be no one else who will systematically monitor data throughout Slovenia. This institution will no longer exist, and the chamber will be broken down either by some industries or by some other interests, and there will be no more comprehensive review. And this comprehensive review is crucial for those areas that do not have strong companies. And if this area is still hidden in some hazy average of the statistical region, either regional or other statistical region, it is a very poor journey for undeveloped places, Mr Minister. I argue that this is a reckless decision that will lead to major regional differences, even more so than so far, and especially the infirmities of smaller companies and, of course, those areas where these companies operate. I am so missing in this law a serious, serious presentation of the reason why we are changing this system from public law to private law. There is no valid explanation for this in the explanatory statement. It is also not explained why you deviated from a comprehensive solution. Why don't we save the assembly system as a assembly system, but actually we just want to change the Chamber of Commerce. There are no reasons given in this paper why we do not go to parallel and simultaneously trade halls, why agricultural chambers and why all other chambers are listed as those operating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. All of this speaks truly in this direction, that the government does not want, I repeat, a serious interlocutor, at a time when it withdraws from the economy, and, of course, this withdrawal must be extremely thoughtful, which, of course, we can ask ourselves whether it is prudent enough or not. I will not support this law in the form it is, in particular, for the reason that it will also cause further problems for small companies and even greater problems for economically less developed areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ambassadors and Members of the Government, Mr. Minister. Today we are having a general debate on the Law on Economic Chambers. However, if we look at the law, we are actually having a general debate on the law on the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce in Slovenia. We have 26 articles of the law, which discusses general matters concerning chambers, and then we have 10 articles of the law, which discusses how the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will be abolished. This is because of Mr Janša's desire that history should be rewritten after 3 October 2004. Why do I say that, Mr. Secretary? Because today we are primarily ending the 155-year-old history of the unified organisation of economic chambers in Slovenia. In 1851 the Chamber of Commerce and Commerce of Slovenia for Kranjska was established, which worked in the field of Slovenia for Kranjska. We had chambers of commerce in Slovenia all the time. Why is it that the Minister of Economic Affairs, or the Minister of Economy himself, does so? I do not understand because I remember the ministers of the economy of previous mandates, who used all the levers and all the knowledge and infrastructure of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to create the most appropriate solutions for the economy during the difficult time of negotiations for EU accession. However, this is not the case, Mr Minister of Economy. The Minister of Agriculture is aware that, without retaining the public legal function of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, there would be a number of problems in the implementation of agricultural policy, either through existing European policies or through amended European policies. That's why it doesn't come to her mind, and whatever the Minister of Economics is going to tell her that she's going to go cancel a public office or a mandatory membership in the agri-agricultural chamber. I suppose the minister's tradesmen have already convinced him, because he was sometimes particularly a minister for a small economy, but now this minister is also a minister for craftsmanship, and today he said that there is a specificity in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Mr Minister for Economy, I do not understand you here explaining that it is necessary to abolish the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I would understand if you were the Minister for Savings, or if you wanted to, the Minister for Political Control of the Slovenian Territory. But you are the Minister for the Economy. And when you fight with other ministers for the best solutions, for the economic interests of Slovenia, and you will need the support of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, ministers of a number of Member States, including those who have a public or private form of maintaining the economy, are aware of this. And to compare what you are proposing with Ireland, where they have such an institution since 1923 and this institution is similar to the economy in Slovenia, together with the Chamber of Commerce, was important at a time if you want, all reforms, with what you are doing here, of course, is wrong. You need to look at what happened in the countries where the chambers of commerce were shut down. And there you will see what some countries are north of us, more towards the Baltic, that it will be crucial there or that there is a key American Chamber of Commerce. And I have no doubt that one of the key chambers that will be in Slovenia will be the chambers, which will either be the branches of some, in quotations, countries, or these American Chamber of Commerce in some countries that actually control, not only the privatisation processes, but something else in the individual economy. To say that the Dutch case, the Luxembourg case is not appropriate for us, is simply a ignorance of some details. If the Minister of Economy really wanted to be the Minister of Economy, then he would have much more consultation with the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and would have sought the synergy of all members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. To say that the Minister of Economy will leave the individual ministries to determine representation, but, if not the other, it is kind of a simplification of the existing legal order in Slovenia. You mentioned that Minister Beast will talk to some of his, so to speak, representatives of what will be in the subject. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, please consult with Minister Beast, and he will tell you that the representatives of the Chamber of Economic Affairs are a number of formal institutions. 150 thousand public documents issued by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia per year! Who's gonna do this? Of course, why the Minister for the Economy does this is wrong to look in the name of Minister for the Economy. I think it is simply necessary to look for this in the philosophy of authority to which Mr Minister belongs. And this is part of the power that simply builds the basis for absolute rule. This power does not need to be debated in the Economic and Social Council. This authority does not need a discussion on, if you want, the Executive Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on certain strategic issues or, if you want, on certain matters, for example, public finance, or discussions or discussions and preparations for discussion in the Economic and Social Council. This authority does not, of course, need the Economic and Social Council, and I expect many months to pass when, through the Economic Chambers Act, we abolish the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to propose that this authority should end the unions. The Minister of Economy is, therefore, primarily a destroyer who destroys everything that was good. And ruin, Mr. Minister, just as your Secretary of State has destroyed in the past months in all those companies controlled by the Supervisory Board or by her as President of the Supervisory Board of the Capital Society of Slovenia. And what will be the result, Mr. Minister? The result will be in the economic area of the tsunami. You know, but there are two phases in the tsunami. It's the first phase when the tsunami comes and sweeps everything away. And the second stage is when, based on what the tsunami has done, the remains of all that was once there are simply collected. And, Mr. Minister, let me inform you that you've been mostly disrupted in the past few months. If that were not true, then today, as the media have just reported, the London investors would not have made a takeover bid for Mercator. Instead, Mr Minister for the Economy, if you were to deal with how you would demolish the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, I would expect that, like other economic ministers of some other countries, you would be dealing with how you would defend Mercator. The AGSS Fund wants a quarter of Mercator, reports the STA today. And, of course, Mr. Minister, that's because of the tsunami when you learn what you've done in the economy, then, of course, the predators come. And these predators perform a simple classic postwar or porous or post-catastrophic so-called collection activity. I regret, Mr Economy Minister, that today after 155 years, because I have no doubt that the ruling coalition will not follow the call of the Minister of Economic Affairs, we will in fact confirm that this law is appropriate and that an institution called the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia needs to be abolished. But who will care about the representativeness of who will be in Slovenia, for example, only in the next stages of the negotiations, how to implement the Lisbon Strategy, has really represented the interests of the economy, and today you have not been able to tell us that. It is easy for you to abolish the institution, to end social dialogue and to rule the Republic of Slovenia even more easily. It is true that you were given a mandate of 3.10.2004 to manage Slovenia, but you did not get it. Therefore, I suggest you consider whether the abolition of 155-year-old institutions is really something the Minister of Economy should do. As I said, if you were a minister of political subordination, you would still understand, but you are a minister of the economy and follow the Minister of Agriculture, who, of course, is doing quite good things with the agri-economic chamber for Slovenian rural development and for the implementation of Slovenian agricultural policy. You, according to the media, are obviously unable to defend even the most important companies that have or are supposed to have a future in the last year and a half when people outside Slovenia decide on the future because of this, Mr Minister, because you want it. If you cancel the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, if it is formed here in dozens, hundreds of small chambers, the main role will be played by the Chambers, which will be determined by companies that are in foreign ownership. This is a wrong policy, Mr Minister, and I regret that you are at the head of this policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The most frequently expressed words in the last performance were: Mr Minister, to be demolished and the destroyer was not, was only once or twice. Look, I have to make it clear once again whether Members who ask the same question I have already answered three times are not in the Chamber or are unwilling to hear it. We are not in favour of any abolition of the Chamber of Economics, but of reshaping the Chamber of Economic Affairs according to the size of the members, that is to say the Chamber of Economics, which is expected by the economy, but not by certain political parties. The Chamber of Commerce was repeatedly abused as an institution in negotiations with trade unions by the previous ruling set up. The economic chamber was threatened with voluntary membership if it did not give in to the unions in some of the solutions. These are the facts. And this chamber has been abused for political purposes many times. Ignorance of history suggests that we are talking about a 150-year tradition, this tradition is owned by both craftsmen and obviously an economic chamber. And I think it would be worth pointing out here when the Chamber of Economics came into being, that it was formed or formed in the form that we know today in the time of the planned economy, of self-government socialism, and that it worked for quite some time. The Ministry of Economy wants to have in the associations of the economy, in the chambers of commerce or in the chamber of a competent partner, I stress, a competent partner, but does not want the economy to be represented by a skeleton structure that does not reflect the expectations and interests of the economy; this has been shown by discussions, analyses, surveys by many, including the Chamber of Economics. On the basis of the survey, the Chamber of Commerce found that it believes in membership and in the renewal of the need to do something, and also believes in the direction to be done, and I believe that if it actually does, it will convince many of those who supported it at the poll that they will remain in the Chamber and that we will have a strong chamber, that is what we want. We'd like to have a proper membership room. We have consulted with membership many times and every time we are in these areas. We in this government have often gone between people and the economy asking questions. The last time we visited Posav was last week, and that's where we talked about these things. In fact, we also have discussions with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce when we are on the ground, as well as with representatives of the economy. There's been a lot of consultation. And once again, understand me, I don't want to end the chamber, but I want to transform the chamber into a group that will actually represent the interests of the economy, that's my interest. And with such a chamber, the government will always, not just the government, but also the unions and others interested, like to cooperate. 150,000 public documents, yes, Mr Member, Slovenia is reregulated, we are at the top of the regulation of professions, we do not need these documents because they hinder the economy, we need to minimise this and follow competitive or more competitive countries. Why are we on the tail of competitiveness in the European Community? That's why. And you're telling me to keep regulating. Who's gonna take care of the representation? I say that representativeness can be taken care of by those who actually represent the interests of the economy, not by someone who is alienated from these interests and so says the economy. Therefore, I do not think that this law is any disassembly of the system, but it is a law that wants to force the Chamber of Commerce on one side to reshape itself to the extent of membership and that other associations can also be formed if membership and voluntary stakeholders do so. With regard to some Members, that is all I would stress more on my left. We have read a proposal submitted by the SD to the government as well, in fact, it is a very similar solution, which can also be taken into account through the debate, so that your opposition, according to my assessment, goes more from a prestigious title than from a substantive one. The issues you have proposed are somehow close to these solutions and are truly prestigious. That's all. Of course, it is not possible to fully interfere with other chambers, since the Chamber of Commerce is governed by a trade law, and we cannot turn the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce Act into a trade law, but we can make a suggestion that any change in the Commercial Law has already been taken into account, is already being upgraded, already laid down in the law in the Chamber of Commerce. That's what stabbed me. I come from a region that does not behave with any development, and there I was also a mayor like you, honourable Member Weber, and I know how much a regional unit of the Chamber of Economics can contribute to this, and I think it really has no connection to talk about non-conformity, further or weakening regional development through this. We are therefore convinced that the matter is consistent, comprehensive, as well as your law, which you obviously want to promote with these developments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Weber responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u133	Look, minister, if you don't believe me, then you have to read for yourself the law you wrote down - what does a private chamber mean for this regional relationship. It means the danger that individual areas will not be adequately covered by the assembly system at all, this is the danger in the form of a private chamber, that is. You wrote it yourself in this law, that's the explanation. This change in the assembly system does not provide coverage for the whole of Slovenia, and this is one of the key weaknesses that you have written down in your explanation of what a private form of assembly organisation means. If there's anything else and there's nothing else I've said. But I would like to come from a region that has a lot of incentives for the development of the economy also at the expense of the nuclear power plant, and then I would like to talk a lot easier about what is economic progress, what is possible, what is impossible to achieve, etc. I would much rather come from a region that also has concessions from other energy sources. My region does not have them, and it also has energy resources and natural resources, the only region that does not receive a concession fee for economic development. This is a significant difference between us when we talk about who was responsible for the development of an area. And I say that this law for this area from which I come brings even worse conditions for further development, because it may happen that we will not have the relevant data that we will be able to present to you at all, Mr Minister, to draw your attention to the economic situation. The second is if you read this information that's being forwarded to you at the Ministry. And I also hope that a letter from 14 days ago came to you. This letter shall consist of the data of the Chamber of Commerce. Secondly, if you do not read this with your colleagues, the fact is that the Chamber of Commerce today provides quality data that you can point out whether an area is lagging behind the economic average or not. And if we lose that, then we lose the important argument that the local community has with the participation of the Chamber of Commerce, and by this law you prevent it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u135	Just a brief explanation. Data are not collected by the Economic Chamber, data are collected by agencies with a more comprehensive set and a more reliable set of data. If we have a choir organisation to collect data, then I don't know if this is an essential or more important element, because they are collected by the state through appropriate institutions such as the IAPES, and this is exactly what needs to be consolidated and usually the Economic Chamber draws data from the IAPES and adequately packs and sells it further. If this is an added value and will therefore impoverish development in a region, then I do not know how we imagine further development in the regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you. There are no replicas on the replica, Mr. Weber. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! When I listen to today's debate, I find that almost every speaker has comments on the Chamber of Economics. Clearly, some major comments, some minor, with the exception of perhaps one of my previous speakers, which probably had little to do with the economy so far. The Chamber of Commerce had time to restructure. I myself recall that we had presentations on the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce shortly after the election in this National Assembly in the Group of Members. Which means that the Chamber of Commerce or its responsibilities were aware that something would have to be done. However, I note that they did not have enough wealth or will or knowledge or anything else to interfere with the change of this skeleton, a chamber that took care of everything but their members, in particular smaller and medium-sized. The big ones probably had a little more influence. I submit that today we are not tearing down the Chamber of Commerce, but we are giving it a new opportunity in the right direction. Finally, we have the right law on chambers of commerce. This is a law that will voluntarily bring together legal and natural persons who engage in economic activity and combine themselves for the sake of common interests. In practice, we find that the most successful are exactly voluntary associations, as confirmed by our well-known firefighters, Karitas, the Red Cross and similar associations. Common interests are best defined by those entities that combine themselves, with their problems, with their vision, their engagement and their contribution to a functioning that will be high for normal business and for which they will receive an appropriate range of services. The great dissatisfaction of the membership of today’s chamber can be understood, for most members have to pay membership fees and do not receive anything from the chamber. Moreover, they hear and see from the media how the chamber cannot spend all the money, so they come up with a tropical garden in a luxurious palace that serves them to conveniently install bureaucrats who monitor the situation in the economy from a safe distance so that they are not at fault. The answer to such a situation in the Chamber of Commerce is perfectly logical. And the government acted responsibly and sent us a proposal for an economic chamber law to discuss, thus giving economic operators a new choice. By means of the proposed law, we are transforming the Public Law Chamber into a private chamber established on a voluntary basis, by contract, by statute and so on. The law shall ensure that the ownership of existing members of the Chamber and the transfer of assets to the newly established private chamber are duly determined. I am sure that this step has been necessary and will bring about a quality move towards the quality of the Chamber of Commerce, which will work for the satisfaction of the members and represent a credible interlocutor to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The questions of assembly organisation in the Republic of Slovenia in various sectors or areas are not entirely new, as said by colleague Swickl, that we are rewriting history, but quite a good time, more or less intensely, occasionally. Therefore, there is no need for today’s bombings, since they do not contribute to the purpose of the law, nor is it the purpose of the need to make certain changes in this area, whether it be the Medical Chamber, the Pharmacy Chamber, or another Chamber established by law. I have always advocated for myself, since I have been in this policy and even before, two principles that are important and dominant principles in Europe. This is the principle of partnership and the principle of subsidiarity. And in this respect, I have always advocated, at least in this segment, in this respect, compulsory membership of the Chambers, because I felt that a whole range of public powers must be delegated by the State on the basis of subsidiarity to a lower level where the same work, the same act or service can be carried out even more qualitatively and for significantly less money. That these public powers were peaceful and representative of all, it was self-evident that we could also expose compulsory membership on that basis, and so we acted before a whole range of chambers. But, unfortunately, practice shows the following: compulsory membership is not the natural mechanism that would force the management, administrative authorities of the chambers to build up, to build up, to practically go through their membership, what they need, and through the system of setting up administrative bodies, it is even more present in the Chamber of Commerce that has added to the fact that this same membership in this Chamber has begun to be unbelievably fragmented, if so said, because if we just take traders, commercial activity, a complete monopoly will have a large system in the administrative bodies of the Chamber, following the system of establishment of legal bodies. Therefore, the smaller merchants were virtually without an application, without taking into account their interests that resulted in the payment of membership fees. It was the same in the transport industry, and therefore a new association of transport was emerging because they were put before the fact that they were powerless because they did not get the products they were expecting on the basis of membership and membership payments. That's why something has to be done in this system. I am firmly convinced, therefore I also say, that large systems do not even need special chambers, special organisational forms, they are so strong from this title that they are, in all aspects, immediate and direct interlocutors to governments and state authorities, but they need some kind of association by smaller entities, medium-sized, even large. And that's why something needs to be set up in the assembly organisation system, newly, according to the outcome of the time, and this is not a new writing of history, which is why I support this attempt. I hope that it is well thought out that on this basis appropriate legal bases can be put in place to establish such and different associations in the employer's title. I am not particularly skeptical on this side, I am sure that some of the birth problems will also be in place in setting up this organisation system and that on this basis it will also be necessary to enter with changes. Recently, the agri-land chamber has been completely silent, as if we are no longer its members, who are members and pay obligatory membership fees, more factors in the expected products. She just fell asleep. I don't know what happened. Has she received another grant from the budget in addition to compulsory membership and can function on her own purpose, just as she has become an air carrier's economic chamber, which has found too slowly that she will be able to adapt more quickly to the challenges of time, the ownership of this membership. Therefore, there is no need for us to have any special reservations to change something in the organisation system. Even when we are talking at a lower level of craftsmanship, I also expect several more products of their association to which they are obliged to pay, because sometimes they are completely powerless to obtain information from the public authorities, as well as to obtain some other necessary products to guide them into the challenge they are facing with their activity. We will, at least personally, uphold the law. However, I expect that, on the basis of what the Minister must attract to the wider public the institutions operating on this segment, the second reading bill will be able to take such a complementary form that at least at the start of its implementation it will achieve its, at least, initial objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u141	Your Honor! The Chamber of Commerce is an association of legal and natural persons who carry out self-employed activities on the market. It can be established by economic companies themselves, or by independent entrepreneurs, individuals on a voluntary basis, we know such chambers as private courts or a chamber establishing a state by law or by law. We know such chambers as public chambers. Both models have their advantages and disadvantages. In Slovenia we have known only the public law model of compulsory membership. It is therefore appropriate to allow economic companies and independent entrepreneurs to combine individuals also on the basis of a private model of the Chamber, i.e. on a voluntary basis. And this proposal of the Economic Chambers Act, which I will support, also makes it possible. On the basis of the public law model of the Chamber, 19 chambers of commerce and professions have been established in Slovenia. In many of these chambers, however, the main shortcomings of the public-law chambers have proved to be mandatory membership. Although this chamber provides a stable financial flow, it runs irrespective of the work and results of the management, so a number of management of the chamber sleeps. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u142	Mr. Pojbich, your cell phone is ringing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u143	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. She's asleep, she's demotivating. Leadership no longer fulfils its basic tasks, that is to offer support for its membership and intermediation between the country and the economy. An example of this is the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. This alone is clearly no longer of interest in the problems and interests of most of its membership, since, according to my information and observations, it has been virtually no longer cooperating with its proposals and initiatives in the adoption of laws and other acts in the Government and in the National Assembly. All he does is that when the legislative process is almost complete and major changes are not usually possible, he sends out an amendment or opinion with which he criticises the law instead of actively cooperating in its creation when it is still time. The proof that the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is no longer interested in or interested in most of the membership, is also that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has only four economic representations in the world, while, for example, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce has more than one hundred economic representations in the world. Therefore, I am not surprised that Austrian companies are much more successful in exporting and selling their goods and services than Slovenian companies. Since the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia does not carry out its basic tasks, this task will have to be performed by the State, although I am sure that this work could be better done by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, only if it is clearly not of interest to its management. However, according to the media and information coming to me, the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is so much more involved in the introduction and maintenance of an authoritarian system in which smaller associations of activities have no influence on the design of the positions of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. And even in the development of their own professional services, the recruitment and determination of the share of funds from the paid membership contribution intended for their operation, these smaller associations have no say. The management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia supports and represents only the interests of major associations of activities that pay a greater membership and are faithful to the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, while smaller associations of activities place them in a subordinate position. Moreover, the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia takes the most important decisions for the operation of smaller associations past them and prevents or impedes the independent functioning and initiatives of their boards and various professional and interest groups. I am not surprised, therefore, that it is from the economy that calls are coming to replace the United Chamber of Economic Affairs of Slovenia with a new democratic system in which companies will play a decisive role in the design and implementation of the strategy and work plan of associations and in the design and implementation of common interests. I am convinced that the proposal for an economic chamber law follows these wishes. In my view, however, the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is very good, working and working towards its goal of ensuring a long-term secure and very well-paid service. There is news in the media that the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is setting up a development fund to promote entrepreneurship, develop new products and penetrate foreign markets. I have no objection to the establishment of such a fund, although experts point out that, in this context, the criterion for the distribution of money will not be financial indicators, but that the administrators who distribute money in their own way are unlikely to benefit the economy from such a fund. However, I am against the fact that the management of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, as has been seen in the media, is in this way looking for a new job, as the current job will probably be lost due to the transformation into a private chamber, as proposed by the law. The worst part is that it is planned that the funds for this fund will be obtained mainly from the sale of the current assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The sale of the shares of the former Slovenian Chamber of Commerce building in Slovenia and the sale of land for the chamber building in Dimičev is mentioned. The draft law provides that the assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia shall be distributed among the new voluntary chambers no later than two years after the adoption of this law. Until then, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will not be allowed to alienate or sell assets, which is perfectly logical, because otherwise there would be nothing left for members or new voluntary chambers. Therefore, for me, the sale of the present property just prior to the entry into force of this law is an ordinary damage to members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, so I am sure that management will not allow it. And to the end. I am sure that we do not want to disrupt the Chamber of Commerce by means of this law, but we want to regulate the Chamber by the measure of membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Testen has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In my opinion, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia did not respond to the needs of membership, so changes in the Chamber of Commerce are necessary. To say that this is some kind of political background is probably a little excessive. If we think back a while ago, the Chamber of Commerce itself has shown that it has found this time to be true, it has shown its readiness to make certain changes within the framework of mandatory membership. Earlier, something had been said about what were valid reasons, and someone mentioned that there were no valid reasons for the change in the Chamber of Commerce. It is my opinion that the weighty reasons are mainly due to the organisation of the Chamber itself. We know that today the Chamber, as it is organised, does not respect or need to apply the law on public servants, the law on public procurement, the Court of Auditors at the Chamber of Commerce, except in that part of the state budget, does not have any jurisdiction. Even if the Chamber of Commerce is not a voluntary membership, it should be reorganised in some way, because I think it is no longer organised in accordance with today's needs. What's the main reason? There was a lot of talk, and I think there are two main reasons why it is imperative that the Chamber of Economics change. The first reason is the amount of contributions that is very high for some members; the second, in my opinion, even more so, is the impact of individual members of smaller, medium-sized enterprises on the functioning of the chamber itself - they had virtually no impact. There was a talk earlier about lunch that every lunch had to be paid for. I agree that every lunch has to be paid, but sometimes we are willing to pay a little more if lunch is good. In this case, I would say that we are willing to pay more for a good service, but if we do not eat lunch or if the lunch is bad, then every price is too high. For this reason, this comparison may be one or the other. I agree with the view that some other chambers, not just the Chamber of Commerce, may also need to be amended, in the form of voluntary membership. I believe that in most of those chambers or in most of our chambers, because they have all the mandatory membership or almost everything, it has been said that one does not have, I think, a major problem for the operation of the chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I follow this debate, I have been asking myself for some time now whether we are actually talking about the same law or whether I am reading the same law, because most of those who do not support the amendment talk about the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce, I do not see this article in this law, but talk about the transformation of the Chamber, including all the articles in the transitional provisions talking about it. I think it's pretty confusing to talk about some automatic termination. Some public documents falling within the competence of the Chamber of Commerce have also been mentioned. This is also in most cases, in my opinion, unfair competition can be made to the school system as well as to other educational institutions, as some of the obligations attributed to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia have actually been exclusive in the field of certain issues of public documents. It would also be very interesting to obtain information on how many actual transactions were concluded by means of an economic chamber, how many doors abroad the Chamber of Commerce actually opened according to the number of these items it has. All those who know the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce also know that, at least in the past, the Chamber of Economics was the article where the excessive staff of large companies have been delayed and continue to respect some philosophy of these large companies and have also acted in this direction in the preparation of legislation, and that is why small companies have had difficulty in enforcing some of their innovations or in influencing the adoption of both legislation and other necessary documents. Therefore, when I look at the new law, it does not in any way abolish the Chamber of Commerce, in fact leaves open opportunities for all economic operators to merge. Even the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia does not terminate directly with any article. She'll definitely stay if their members want her to. The monopoly established through the disposal of these personnel from large companies will thus somehow be able to withdraw from a developmental momentum that will be reproduced through the pooling of those companies and entities of interest. In this way, public documents are also likely to be more transparent and also the impact on the drafting of legislation will be open to all economic operators who would like to cooperate. The privileges of issuing documents and various certificates through the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will no longer exist. In our area we have two large companies Kolektor and Hidrija. One is in the Chamber of Commerce and one has long been no longer a member of the Chamber of Commerce and is even more successful than the one in the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you. Does he still want the word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. It has been possible to understand three key elements from the debate so far. The first element is that some parliamentary groups are still advocating a higher level of regulation in Slovenia in the field of economics and that they want a slightly more stringent government engagement in addressing the organisation of the economy in the chambers. On the other hand, the concept followed by the Economic Chambers Act is a concept based on voluntary integration of the economy on the principle of obtaining as much or more as is invested in such an institution. More than once, it has been pointed out that not only the government, but also the other partners, need the organisation of the economy and therefore need an existing Chamber of Economics. I'm sure the first is true, and the second is not true. The government wants an organised economy, but it is organised in this way that the position of such an organised economy is also the position of the vast majority of its members. I must say that this is our goal, our desire, and that organisation is such that it does not cost the economy more than the economy is willing to pay. As we trust the Slovenian economy, let only the economy lay down rules for the action of such an association, a way of representing its interests outside. I think that such an approach is important and necessary for the government to respect and respect it. And this concept, which is proposed, is written on the skin of this new view. That's why we made it. It is normal that a lot of attention is focused on transformation, that is to say how from the existing system to a new perspective, to a new approach, and therefore we have chosen here a relatively soft option because we do not want what the opposition sees us, we do not want any suspension, disruption, dismantling, liquidation. We want the Chamber of Commerce to be transformed into a strong Chamber of Interest on a voluntary basis. And that's possible by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'll read them first: Friday Milan, Squeakle, Juban, Gaber, Weber, government. Anyone else? No, no, no. Five minutes. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you, President, for your word. I must say that after this difficult and long debate it is difficult to start anything new, at least I have the impression that the debate on this law that we have before us is almost meaningless. So the government stood up, of course the minister defends it in one position, when it drafted a law that "I don't really know what you're saying, I don't know what you're explaining" you can't change, because the foundation of this law is such that it doesn't allow for alternatives at all. This is the basis for this private partnership in an institution such as the Chamber of Economics, and therefore, even when I said so, every debate is almost doomed to failure. Above all, I would still like to repeat to Mr Visiak what he has heard several times. Well, I can't understand why you went after this project. If you were as honest as you were saying, or as vehemently as you were speaking, confidently, when you were speaking, honestly thinking, I'm sure you wouldn't persuade us in that way because you would draw arguments about it. You almost have no argument to give a basis for believing you, at least you haven't attached it to me personally. And for this reason, I do not believe that this is a project of good will or a project that is supposed to produce a result, but this is a project which, as it says in this document, is supposed to provide the basis for the uniform regulation of private economic chambers, not a document that is supposed to satisfy the interests of the members of the chambers, but is obviously a political project with a view to breaking down and achieving a clear objective - to politically control and neutralize the power of the economy. Thus, at least it seems to me like the text of this law, and by the debate that Members who have actually had, it seems to me that in this National Assembly there was not such a sacred excuse in the debate on this law or in any of these laws, such as the repetitions here as the parrot of some of the facts that we have heard, I do not know how many times, rather than the arguments, except of course the rare exceptions that I will not now be harmed, but the rare exceptions, wrongly, even those that some of the parties who have literally taken from the street to this Parliament, have been telling us how the Chamber must look at how it must ensure the interests of this chamber, how the membership is too high, how someone is being embezzled on the money and the means of those who have done it in order to see only their own benefits. So when we talked about this chamber, it's really incomprehensible that of all of these 19 governments, one chamber is being drawn out and this room is going on, and this is supposed to be an example of everything else that should be happening in this country. Instead of making this systematic, and here I am giving recognition to the SD, which has pursued this law systematically, they have gone to some sporadic, individual action that here appears to be for a political purpose. I am particularly surprised by this emphasis on membership as the main element that I see through the debate of some Members. Those who know the method and method of determining the amount of membership have forgotten to say that some do not pay the membership fee anything. You have forgotten to say that some small companies are paying symbolic membership, which goes up to 5,000 values, that later depending on the arrival and the number of employees this membership is growing, and here they are experiencing the largest membership, and in fact they are not doing problems as far as I am concerned, they are not doing a problem because they are aware that such a chamber is necessary, of course taking into account also some reciprocity, some solidarity, this chamber must work for the whole economy, but not only for the interests of individuals. And that's why there's been no problem so far. But it is true that this Chamber of Commerce is as it is, too late as it is, and this is the wrong leadership, which has led to the need to change. We all admit that. This leadership was not aware that it was necessary to rationalise, to give the role to medium and small enterprises slightly more than it was necessary to reduce membership, that this objective, which Vizjak said in his reasons, had been achieved even before the government entered the game, and here is the clear economic chamber that it had not done so. So when we talk about how economic chambers are now going to be organised into smaller ones. The Slovenian economy is simply too small. The Slovenian economy, neither human resources nor financial, is capable of delivering more chambers because, if they want to be a relevant interlocutor, they have to have jobs in the creation of economic policy, these services are cost-effective and there is nothing free in this country. So, to tell you about the Chamber of Economics and about this law is huge, we have made a mistake in the House of Members, we have not reported us, because we have only five minutes left, and I am also five minutes late, and I am sorry that I cannot give any more arguments against this law, which we strongly reject.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u153	I regret that the Minister of Economy is not here, but I will ask you - Members, Members, would you really be willing to send your children to buses driven by unqualified professional drivers? Those who don't have a public record. Not me. This is also done by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Who's gonna do this now? Ministry of Education. Mr. Secretary has made it clear that we are in favour of more regulation. One of the biggest problems of transformation or transition is that it has been forgotten about regulation, not a problem such as the Minister of Health’s desire to quickly train health care or privatise health care if there are supervisory institutions. The Swedish Parliament knows five of these medicines. It's regulation. Mr Minister told us that we are for more regulation, but I remember that in the last year and a half he speaks in the field of deregulation only a project all in one place that started in the previous period. I would like to know who will organise a year and a half from now to then after the Slovenian regions. The regional chambers of commerce were key, and that's good. When we meet Members in different regions, one of the better meetings of those organised by the Economic Chamber area, I hope you will not deny it. Who will plant the seed of development in those areas where the economy is not yet, who will fight such or other administrative procedures to create these or those if you want craft or economic zones if you do not have regional institutions? Yes, congregations, 215 congregations would like to see. You're not gonna say we're the only ones who object, I quote. "I fear that, if in a year, the three will form 50, 100 or 150 smaller chambers of business, we will probably be forced to invest some energy in the search for a chamber that will fight for our interests. I am also afraid that services will ultimately be more expensive than they have been so far," said Ivo Boscarol, director of an international successful company for the production of light aircraft, including a member of the government's economic strategic sector. Another quote related to one very interesting contribution last night. Mr. Minister of Justice said that for us Austria is a model in, as he said, a court of law that there is no backlog. Of course, he forgot to say what he had been told in his previous speech that there, even in dreams, judges are not paid according to the chord, as they were sometimes called, but paid because they share the right. Interesting. In neighbouring Austria we have an Austrian Chamber and the first man of this Austrian Chamber Christopher Lyitel expressed great concern about developments concerning the assembly system in Slovenia. These are two warnings from other worlds, and I hope that Mr Minister will be able to respond. So we do not want to improve the work of economic chambers in Slovenia, but we do not understand why in Slovenia the first country in the world, which, if adopted, will have a double system. For economic chambers we will have an Irish model for crafts, farm, pharmacy, etc. And we'll have a French, Dutch, Luxembourg, Austrian model if you want. But there's just no explanation for that. The only answer, Mr Minister, is that you are tearing down an institution that could challenge you, doing things that have negative effects on economic growth, which have negative effects on economic development, and because you do not want to have an institution that, together with trade unions, is able to have an equal dialogue with the government. And this is usually the intensification of absolute power. That's why I'm saying that I understand that you, as Minister of the Economy, are doing this mainly because you're cleaning up political territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In such discussions, the next question comes to me first. In fact, the law is in the normal procedure where we are in the first reading today, and in such cases the government may take into account some referrals from Members on the one hand and put them into law. According to the Minister's replies, the prospects are not very large to take into account comments, some very important, important for the further development or survival of the Chamber of Commerce and Regional Units. And then the debate is such that some have not reported to the discussion at all, even though they have applied, even from coalition parties. Secondly, we all agree that changes are necessary but not radical change. And here some in the opposition parties see above all that such radical changes are not good and will not be good. For example, the area of voluntary or compulsory membership - time has not yet matured for voluntary membership. And just like that, I don't get what I pay for, what's what I get, and what's what I pay for. Some of you compared it to some lunch, but how am I supposed to know if lunch was worth that much if I don't know what the price is? To offer something more by chance, I don't think it's ever happened, and it can't happen here either. However, it can be true that a valid or existing Chamber of Economics is too expensive and that there is also a need for discussion and perhaps legal solutions here; and elsewhere, but not so radical. I don't know if anyone's hoping to say that we'd have enough membership if it were free. This is present in all the chambers - the best thing to do would be to be a free membership; agriculture is typical. And then, when these chambers are not eventually going to be -- I'm counting on it not to happen, some distorted form will probably stay -- you'd get just as new chambers, the question of which one of us will experience it, or someone will replace it, I don't know any of them. At least during a period of time, this stress will be well - known. I must admit that I come from an environment where the Regional Economic Chamber has played an important role in coordinating various projects, from infrastructure to different parts of the economy, to education, development agencies and so on. And if this is no longer the case, or perhaps in a human form, then it is the question of who will do it. Perhaps another comparison, Comrade Brenčič, mentioned what was going on with some others or specifically with the agri-land chamber. We will all remember when we had a 90-demand agri-agricultural chamber in front of the government palace or warned of 90 errors in agriculture, similar to that of the peasant union. And what happened today is that these people are nowhere else. Has there really been 90 improvements in agriculture? And what's going on with the chamber? He's already speculated on what might have happened. Or is it another story that voluntary membership or the abolition of a chamber will take place, and this chamber will no longer exist? The beneficiaries themselves, I do not know whether they are aware of one or the other, in agriculture, I hope to say that the members who pay for a membership, a quarter of that, even less than the meeting room spends, do not realize how much they would lose if this system, as well as some others, were to be crushed or reduced to a quarter or even less. And in the end, I'm afraid the beneficiaries of the services of the chamber so far, if this happens in the meantime, what they won't get at Jozek Chuk, will ask the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Gaber has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will begin by agreeing with Mr. Minister. I belong to those who believe that Slovenia needs voluntary membership in the Chambers. I speak on purpose in plural form, because I think so. My friend Brenčič explained better what is going on if we get the chambers where membership is compulsory, and it is so forever and it is without any competition. But I'm afraid that's also the extreme point that we and my colleague Visian agree on. When I say I am for voluntary membership, I would like to point out that Slovenia is ahead of a serious challenge, how it will structure this space in the country. If it simply replaces compulsory membership with voluntary membership without the representativeness of the Chambers and without the public powers of the Chambers, it will purposely delete the intermediate space between the authorities and those in enterprises, those in health care, those in agriculture and so on. This is also all of it, or, this is also the core of the difference between the two bills we know between Visakov and, let me say, I think the Bohinian law. That's the core of the difference. Dear fellow Minister, in the event that you are able to reflect on and adopt the core of Article 11, which speaks in this second law on public powers given to the Houses, which are representative, I will trust you. I will trust you that you are not against the economy, that you are not just and only the policy of Janez Janša, but that you are the person responsible for the economy and working for the interests of the economy in the government. If you are interested in the fact that the economy has words in the talks, in the social partnership, that it has powers, then you simply need to establish a structure in which real entities will voluntarily engage, they will be able to replace a chamber in which, if the chamber does not go in the direction of their interests, they will not be included in a chamber that does not have the authority to represent anyone, but will be there in order for a minister or a prime minister to listen to it or not. As you have written down your marriage so far, so do you. It's up to you whether you listen to someone or not. This is a swing from one extreme to another and it is a swing that cannot be good for this country. The simplest thing to say is what we're talking about here today. After that, we'll judge what kind of marriage you brought into this room with what intent. If we see at least these two elements built up in the future, then here is the possibility of an agreement, at least I am prepared to always support such a law, but if not, then I will understand that there is another attempt at work to clean up political territory, an attempt to wipe out fields of civil society everywhere where these entities are too strong and could make it difficult for the authorities to realise their own interests. I have enough experience to know that a person in some position becomes nervous when, after the torment has come to some concepts, he has already aligned himself with hundreds of entities, to deal with and deal with a strong chamber. This is the normal functioning of power, but this story needs to be adopted, it needs to be agreed, if not, we have to deal with the desire for a leader who directly communicates with the people and the choice that he loves and the people must strive to please this leader. This is a pre-modern way of creating a society and Slovenia is not pre-modern and this system will not last long, even if you manage to establish it by mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you. Well, even in the Minister's final thoughts, we have heard once again that he wants to have a serious interlocutor, that he wants to listen to the economy, that he wants to listen to the members of the Chamber of Economics, but still. Mr Minister, when we adopt this law, we say very precisely, we have adopted such a law, we want such chambers. Why don't we leave this to the members of the Chamber to agree for themselves within their own procedures, within their own bodies, which they already have within the framework of the Chamber of Commerce, which, as we know, exists, operates, carries out their mission, has its own members. And it would be quite right for them to first decide whether it is effective, whether they need it as it is, or whether they need to change it. We could certainly agree that, of course, it is possible to change it to that extent in the current mode of organisation, i.e. in a way of organisation, as a form of public law, because, as far as it becomes private law, members will not talk about problems in the economy, but will talk about the distribution of assets. You have set a two-year deadline for this to be agreed upon. I am afraid that this two-year deadline will be too short for this agreement to take place and that you are actually losing an accomplice, because members will not deal with what they are experiencing in their development, economic development, but will talk about how they will share their assets. And that is the key change and danger that follows from this law. I really think that we should listen more to the needs expressed within membership in a more transparent way, as you say, and as you wrote down in the law, that it was some kind of public controversy and so on, on the basis of this, this law was created. If only a short comparison with the agri-agricultural chamber, where you say, let's say that not all members here achieve the effect they expect in terms of paid membership. What is the effect of someone who has a kindergarten in the agri-land chamber? Not at all. He is committed to paying his membership fee, but from this part of the agricultural forestry chamber he does not actually get anything, nothing at all. So that if we are already thinking about changes, we should, of course, think about the changes primarily in this Chamber, but I repeat that, although it is necessary to go in a completely different way and in particular, to agree on what kind of chambers we want in Slovenia, but not in such a way as to say that there will be a private status in this area, there will be public status in this area, and in the end we do not really know what exactly, what kind of development, what direction we want in Slovenia. Thus, this bill does not really reflect the Government's desire and direction of the assembly system and, as long as it is not, it is, of course, extremely difficult to pass laws on individual chambers of commerce, especially in a very different way as is proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you. And Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. First of all, there may be one fundamental issue concerning Mr Juban's debate. In fact, the first consideration is intended to confront in Parliament's position and to take into account, as far as possible, the comments made and which in some way go into the general concept presented and recorded in the articles of the law. Of course, a kind of controversy went right to this concept. That's why it's hard to say that we're going to follow a completely different concept, because then it's not this law anymore, and it's just another law. That is why we remain on the idea and the concept that the assembly system needs to be renovated. That the way in which the assembly system was organized so far was that it was in different laws, that it was not only in one law. Therefore, by amending only one law, it is not possible to change the entire assembly system, especially in the economic field. And as a result, we have started and made a system extension that allows for the adaptation of the other chambers to this concept. That is why it is also called, Sir Gaber, that this is not the law on the Chamber of Commerce, but the law on the Chambers of Commerce. [[Multiplicity]] . This year, we are also seeing a change in the craftsmanship law that defines the establishment and functioning of the Chamber of Commerce, but we have so far - once again - point out that it would not be misunderstood - we have also taken into account the concept of the renovation of the Chamber of Commerce, on the basis of how the Chamber of Commerce sees this change. For we estimate that it is a sufficient step in the direction of the reconstruction that we want to achieve. As regards the Chamber of Commerce, we have done exactly as you say, Mr Weber, we have listened to the members. We listened to the members, because we made at least two of the members. Firstly, we have made a representative survey, by which we are convinced that we have found a position of members, both to the current situation and to our intentions after the renovation. And in doing so, we are building on this concept, which you are stressing as urgent and useful. This is said to be the kind of congregational organization that they want. And it's also embedded in this marriage of ours. The Chambers, which will then be created, as well as the transformation of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, will take place in the manner members wish. And it is also the basic guiding principle of this concept that it is a voluntary, public or private assembly organization based on interest and volunteering. And once again, I see that there are many who know better what is good for the Slovenian economy than this economy only knows. I am sure that if we allow the economy to organise itself, it connects itself to perform the tasks and it also pays to that extent, as it only feels that it is necessary for it to do so quite a bit. It is very difficult for me to imagine that I will tell the economy what is good for the government. Here again, some Members have been exposed to this dilemma under additional regulation, whether they would send their children to a bus where the driver does not have any documents. Look, you know for yourself that we are, in particular, in regulating the professions at the summit with our competitors within the European Union. That this area needs to be deregulated, that there is still a lot of deregulation to be done. And this deregulation, of course, will not go to the point of endangering security or anything. But it has to go to the point that regulation does not mean work and administration for someone just because someone has a job. And there's a lot of that today. A lot of documents are being issued because of the fact that the documents are. Public powers are also based on the exercise of public powers under Article 8 of the existing law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] What a smart complementary text we are also prepared to build on this in relation to public powers and in relation to comparison with Article 11 of the law, for example, you have appointed Mr Bohinc. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u162	Mr. Secretary, the time has come. Thank you very much. [[....]] This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the half-hour vote, at 5.05 p.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 17.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u163	Dear Members, please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. Thank you for your attention. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. The LDS Group proposed an amendment to Article 1 relating to the amendments of the same proposer to Chapter 7, the first amendments to Articles 70, 71 and 72, the first amendments to Articles 75 and 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89 and 91. On the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that we vote together on all the amendments mentioned above. We will vote on this procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the decision adopted, we shall vote on all the aforementioned Articles or amendments to those Articles together. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. I would appeal once again to the Members to support Article 1. As has already been said, most of the amendments are linked to this amendment. Given that there have been major discussions on the terms of repatriation and immigration, let me say that if we do not support this amendment, then there will be only a definition of repatriation and that we will not be able to incorporate immigration into this law even below. Moreover, I would say that this amendment to this article is one that gives Europeanism to the law, as has been said several times in the debate, and that it is better than the amendments that follow. In doing so, I am referring to the amendment to Article 3a, which we do not object to, but we believe that the dictatorship in this article is broader and better quality and therefore gives a better path for the Europeanity of this law if we support this amendment. I therefore propose that this amendment also be supported. Finally, I would say that, as a result, this is also related to the amendment to the 78th article, which removes the disgraceful form of home immigration, which I believe should not even be included in this law, so that I do not repeat everything that has already been said in the debates. That's why I'm calling for support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 38. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendments are not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' parliamentary group for a new Article 3a. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 13. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the LDS Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 39. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 19. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! It's one of the three key amendments. The adoption of this amendment would mean, above all, that the minority community recognises their subjectivity. To select their own representatives through their organisations to represent their interests in the newly proposed world. This would mean recognizing in some way the equality of those parts of the people living outside our borders with the structures established by the Republic of Slovenia. In short, it would mean that we consider the minority to be full-year, that it can determine by itself without intermediaries what those representatives who know best what is good for them at a given time, or we will return to a practice which has been widely criticised and which means the internalism of the state authorities over this community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Turčno.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I am also appealing because I think this amendment is the most important thing for us to reconsider and accept. This would prove, for the first time, that the government and the Prime Minister are willing to listen to the representatives of the foreigners, their views that may be critical at some time, but if you do not accept this, I fear that you will choose those who will sit in the consultation body alone and will meet with the Prime Minister after meeting the council, taking a happy picture, taking pictures of each other, clapping each other together, and the matter will go on joyfully, and the real problems of the Slovenes in the place will not come to the right place. If it is not supported, it is possible that there will also be some major divisiveness, since the definition of the present article is not clear who should be the representative, who should be the representative of these organisations, and speculation is also possible, and in particular the voice of the foreigners will not be heard in the right place. That's why I'm calling again for you to vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I am confident that Article 19 is well-written and does not need to be amended. In fact, Article 15, paragraph 5, clearly states that representatives of Slovenians, in turn, propose to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a representative organisation of the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries. This, of course, not only means the works of civil society, but means representative organisations. When this law arose, of course, the representatives of the umbrella organisations were also among the two Slovenian political parties, both the Slovenian community in Italy and the single list in Koroška, and, of course, other entities that are representative organisations. Therefore, I believe that, as in Article 19, it is good and that there is no need to support the amendment. I won't do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A respected choir! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to appoint members of the Council for Slovenians instead of foreign organisations as the appropriate body for joint inter-ministerial coordination. In fact, it is a proposal by SLOMAK, which has become very strong in the last period, that is to say, the Slovenian minority coordination of umbrella organisations from Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia. Their last action, when they presented the problems in the European Parliament, was very receptive, and I think that SLOMAK is precisely the representative body that could play the role proposed by this amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and I think that if you supported Article 3a and the amendment to this article, that if you supported any more of the opposition's amendments below, you would certainly give a good sign and this law, to which we have been waiting for a long time, would be adopted by consensus in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u174	I too will support the solution proposed by the Liberal Democracy simply because it is in the interests of our foreigners, to whom this law is intended. They do not threaten the budget, they do not endanger national interests, they do not threaten such a solution to our borders. Therefore, I see no reason why the government would object to such a solution. Mr Školč rightly pointed out the subjectivity of the national communities. The subjectivity will be reflected by directly electing or appointing their representatives to those authorities in the home nation that will take care of their destiny. Finally, it is a more qualified and authentic transfer of information from this circle to the home country, which will be more assured, of course, if the authentic representative of the Slovenian community is appointed in place by their own species. If we do otherwise, we destroy this subjectivity and we will simply name someone who may like it on the basis of the assessments that the government itself will make, but will not be the authentic voice of the Slovenian minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At various ends of the emotional scale, we have chosen words in the debate when we have pointed out which solutions in this law are good and which are not. I think, however, that it has been the joint note of all our discussions, that the law should be so that it can count on the benefits, on the interests of those to whom the law is intended. This is precisely the case that the Slovenian National Community, in any neighbouring country in place, should already be regarded as an entity. And if we are talking about the clarity of the dictatorship, then the fifth paragraph of Article 19 is, as it is now written, quite clear that the representatives of the organisations propose, while the Prime Minister appoints. The amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy is clear because it says that members of the Council for Slovenians, in place of foreign organisations, are appointed by the relevant body of joint border coordination, so it is perfectly clear who appoints and I will therefore support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u178	So, I would like to emphasise that I will support this amendment of the LDS House of Members and that it is not a beautiful matter of cosmetic nature. It is an essential question of who determines which organisations of alternate Slovenians are representative. And let me tell you why, for example, the representatives of SLOMAK do not agree with this type of appointment - because something similar exists now, for example, with the Prime Minister of Austria in the context of the Conference of Unity. The President of the Government of Austria shall determine what is representativeness and determine which organisations meet these conditions of representativeness. And that's what's gonna happen to us. I do not know how this will be carried out in practice, or even if the Prime Minister will call on those organisations which he himself will consider representative to submit his proposals, which he will then take into account, and may wish to bypass one of the foreign organisations which he considers to be representative there. So the thing is not so naive and innocent and our amendment is just this speculation and any misleading moves to do so. So I think we need to reconsider and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the second amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 19 is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 31 votes against 39. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the LDS Group to Article 19. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Throughout the debate, we have heard that there will be representatives of umbrella organisations and political parties in this world. I would like to quote the quoted Boris Pahor, who says that he constantly loves the Slovenian community, but because he cannot reach the required quorum on his own, we love Slovenian candidates in the left parties. And he goes on to say, "Slovakia in the country we have four saints, three have leftist parties and one Slovenian community." And he says it may be difficult to repeat once again that intelligence and happiness will be united, as they are now and in this case. Since the billers obviously have room for one representative of political parties, we can determine which of these four will be elected, regardless of the fact that senators and Members are also elected on certain lists. This is certainly problematic and wrong and does not reflect the number and organisation of the minority in different countries. That is why this amendment should be supported and indeed appointed into this world to appoint people who primarily deal with the problems of the Slovenian community, not in the party, but in the national case. Otherwise, as the former secretary may wish, there will be further political sectarianism.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you. I would also like to point out that we have already heard twice from the same Member that political parties will also have a representative in this Council. With this, you have also made it clear that it will be political recruitment. It will be very interesting to see how events will develop. The main amendments, as far as the content of the law is concerned, have already been rejected, so it cannot be substantially corrected in my opinion. But in this amendment, which is now on the table -- and I wouldn't even explain it, because we've already told you many times what the point is -- and I would only point out that this is the last chance that it won't be visible from space that you don't know basic mathematics, as I said before. Because what you're proposing is not able to contain any mathematical explanation. And I'm going to have a great time looking at the way you're going to roll around and do whatever you want to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We turn to Article 70 or to the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 70. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 5. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 75 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. With regard to the harmonisation of the bill, I give the floor to the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. The harmonisation amendment to Article 23 of the Act. In the first paragraph, the words "Slovenian communities in substitution and in the world" are replaced by the words "Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia". In the second part, the third paragraph is deleted. The harmonisation amendment is a result of the second reading at the meeting of the parent working body of the adopted amendment to Article 23, which substantially amends the first and second paragraphs of Article 23, submitted by the Government to the national assembly. The harmonisation amendment is necessary because an article as adopted at second reading needs a nomotechnical correction. It's a terminological harmonisation. The wording "Slovakia outside the Republic of Slovenia" is used in the law and it is therefore appropriate to replace the new term "Slovenian communities in place and around the world" with the already established wording in the law. Secondly, the third paragraph of Article 23 referred to the original first and second paragraphs of this Article. By adopting the amendment to the first and second paragraphs and thus amending those paragraphs in substance, the third paragraph became irrelevant and unnecessary. The third paragraph is now causing internal non-compliance with Article 23 and must be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you. As you have heard, it is necessary to consider and adopt the harmonisation amendment, so I ask that the government reproduce this amendment, divided into pieces. This is the time I propose that we end this agenda item and then proceed with it after the other points have been closed. Anybody mind? [[No, no, ……]] Then I interrupt this item on the agenda and we will continue after the conclusion of the other voting points. They continue to end the 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal of the Economic Chambers Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Economic Chambers, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item, this is on the defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Agreement on the application of the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the International Maritime Law of 10 May. DECEMBER 1982 ON THE PROTECTION OF THE CEZCON FISH STATION AND THE EXPECTED SELECTIVE SPECIES OF FISH. I give the floor to Mr Aurelius Yuri to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement will, of course, be supported by the Social Democrats. These are provisions of the United Nations Convention on International Law, which oblige the parties to implement all necessary measures to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fish populations, either trans-seasonal or dispersed and predominantly stationary as highly migratory. We also have such fish stocks in the Slovenian Sea, the Gulf of Markets, which is an extremely sensitive habitat for them because of its shallowness. Many of them live on our small sea. Their presence and consistency are the best health indicators for this part of the Adriatic. Therefore, what the parties to the Convention are committed to and committed to such policies and concrete behaviour that will protect this population is essential that we, and with it, urge neighbours to respect it most strictly when it comes to the use of fishing resources and methods that are dangerously reducing fish stocks as well as even more so when we intervene in a space with projects that may threaten a weak environmental balance. There has been a lot of talk in recent weeks about a platform in the middle of the Straza Bay, just shooting off our coast and a similar facility right across the border in Žavaje near Milja, where a minus 162 degree of liquid gas from Africa, transported by special tankers with the heating process would re-engage and train for further use. Naturalists, fishermen, the environmental profession have already triggered an alarm, if it is an extremely dangerous environmental bomb, which can be a fairly precipitated and fragile life in the northern Adriatic completely completed. After some warnings, a drop in water temperature, which is not yet known exactly how much it would be because the user has no experience and simulations, would prevent migratory fish from entering these waters. It is also a question of how to cope with this cross-border stock. Furthermore, it is not yet clear where to end the enormous amount of chlorine used in this process and how security for humans and nature should be ensured against the increased traffic of tankers with possible collisions - you know, when a storm or transmontane is blowing, also 200 000 tons of monsters have problems with anchoring and tying - how it would be before fires, explosions, spills, assassinations and so on. It is known that such a facility in California has been abandoned because of its environmental and security issues. To make it even more suspicious, the government of neighboring Furlania - the Julian landscape itself, who wants the terminal to have its neighbors across the border, that is, we have not informed about their intentions, we have learned this, as you know, from the media, and still have been digging with information and is not considering much of the growing concern of the affected public. Therefore, with the support of the ratification of the agreement on the application of the provisions of the Convention, our call on the Government to engage slightly more decisively with the neighbour than it has so far, I am pleased that the President of the Republic has warned her in this regard, in accordance with the principles of, of course, communication, joint care for the common space, good neighbourhood and European partnership and, last but not least, respect for the conventions as they are today. It is encouraging, we have heard this today, that today the government has finally decided to examine the matter interdepartmentally. However, it is not enough that only this one runs faster after procedures that do not take account of us, to make a formal and immediate request that the idea of disputed terminals freeze until an appropriate scientific assessment of their environmental impact is carried out, through a mixed Italian Slovenian, if we want, in the light of the wider interest, also Croatian independent and qualified institutions that will have or have access to all relevant information. Finally, it is a problem of gas supply from a wider pool of Central Europe, such as Furlania itself - the country of July and it is also going to be dealt with with with with Croatia when it discusses its maritime routes and its possible environmental impacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. Mr Pavliha, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u188	Thank you very much, President for your word. I wouldn't take the floor if I hadn't been encouraged by my colleague Yuri. In view of our unusual way of adopting conventions in the current lane, without explanation, without comment, without presenting the opinion or position of the members of the groups, these conventions are part of national law under Article 8 of the Constitution when they are ratified and when they are in force. And not just that. They must be used directly by the courts. Let's see what the problem is. Is it a problem that Slovenia is not yet a party to many conventions, or is it a problem that it does not implement these conventions? If we can remain in the field of marine ecology and in the area of the construction of the threatening infrastructures referred to by colleague Yuri, then the situation is next. We have a 1976 Barcelona Convention with five Protocols, we have a 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea, we have a 1991 Convention on the assessment of cross-border environmental impacts, we have a Convention on Climate Change, we have a Kyoto Protocol, we have a number of European regulations and directives that oblige us. Our government, of course, is nothing. Even these conventions that we have do not respect these rules. How are we gonna respect the new ones? That is why I will support this convention, and at the same time appeal to the Government, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to all the competent authorities to roll up sleeves and, of course, to our rights, which also stem from the ancient principle of customary international law, 'Sic huto ut alienum non mepas', which simply means that the State can use its territory only by not interfering with the rights of another country. In this case, of course, we need to stand up for our environment, and we need to stand up for that small sea pool we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Pece, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u190	Our Group will, of course, support this Convention or this law, in order to enable our Government to be able, on the basis of another international convention that we are ratifying now, to require that our neighbours treat our country as a sovereign country that is a partner in international treaties, as in the previous other treaties that we have ratified, and yet Italy does not take into account them at this time, so that our Government, in confidence, and in particular without any reservations, may require all that is going on under these international conventions and now under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Period of the agenda - This is for the defence proposal of the law on the ratification of the agreement on the amendment of the agreement on economic cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 of whom voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY ON COOPERATION AND PROTECTION OF INVESTIGATION. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 of whom voted against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - THIS IS FOR A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONION ON THE AVOIDATION OF DOUBT TaxATION AND THE PREVENTION OF DUTIES IN RELATING TO THE COOPERATION TaxES. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their member states on one side and the Republic of Tajikistan on the other, with a summary list. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on enforcement and insurance shall be confirmed." We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Act on National Housing Savings Scheme and Subsidies to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Problem is confirmed." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Law on State Defence is confirmed." We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Judicial Service Act is confirmed." We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially been cleared of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Copyright and Related Rights Act is confirmed." We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The official text of the Environmental Protection Act is confirmed." We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present and 66 voted against. [[She voted 66.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider 4 proposals by the Judicial Council for election in judicial capacity and a proposal to appoint a Supreme Court Judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal by the Minister of Justice for the appointment of a Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the discharge of a Member of the State Audit Commission, a notification by the District Court in Celje concerning an application for an investigation lodged against a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal for a decision on the appointment of a President, a Vice-President of the members and their deputies to the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the law on the non-compatibilability of the exercise of a public function with a gainful activity. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. Mr. Pece, please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u192	Procedurally. Madam President, I ask you to order a recess prior to the decision under point 32e and to convene the leaders of the groups of Members in relation to the content of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u193	Okay. When we reach the point of the Commission of the National Assembly, I will interrupt in 15 minutes and convene a meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. We are now moving on to a proposal for a decision on election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the Court of Justice, namely four District Judges at the District Court in Piran, Maribor and Slovenj Gradc. Would you like a representative of the Council of Justice? No, no, no. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nataša Tomazini Tonejc to the District Court in the District Court in Piran. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 64 of whom were voted against. [[64 votes for me.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Matejka Pintarič Pec to the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Simone Mernik to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Valerija Matvos Jeromel to the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to the decision on the appointment of Mr Boris Rozman to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovro Šturm, submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Mr Mark Šorli as Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Mark Šorli as Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of 6 years. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission, Mag. Mr Cerar shall discharge the duties of the Member of the State Audit Commission of 30.4.2006. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the discharge of the Member of the State Audit Commission, by which the mag is involved. Cerar shall discharge the duties of a member of the State Audit Commission, as of 30 April 2006. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the hearing of the notice from the District Court in Celje concerning the application submitted for investigation against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Martin Mikolić. For consideration of the meeting, the District Court in Celje forwarded the notice. The notification was considered by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court of Celje, code 292/2003 of 13.2.2006 concerning the application for an investigation lodged against the Member of the National Assembly of Martin Mikolić for a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence of the abuse of an official position or of official rights under Article 261 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Martin Mikolić and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members present and 59 votes against 3. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Before we go to the hearing and vote on the decision to appoint a President, Vice-President, Members and their deputies of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, I hereby invite all the leaders of the Group of Members to the consultation room 217. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 6:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned session, namely when we consider and vote on the proposal for a decision appointing a President, a Vice-President, members and their deputies to the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u195	Your Honors are here! In accordance with the open-ended option put forward by the Working Council, I propose a procedural decision to suspend the work of the National Assembly and to allow the College, as a contractor of the material for this item, to carry out its consultation and to continue the meeting on Tuesday with the consideration of this item.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u196	You heard the proposal. It is proposed that this point be terminated and that the meeting of the national assembly be resumed on Tuesday as well. Did I get it right? The proposal may be made by representatives of the groups of Members. Then I put such a proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 51. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. That is why we continue with this point. On the basis of a decision amending the decision to designate the posts of the members of the working groups of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and establishing the parliamentary groups to which the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the national assembly belong, and on the basis of the notification of the individual parliamentary groups, a proposal for a decision to appoint the President, the Vice-President, the members and their Vice-Presidents of the Commission of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall be drawn up under the law on the incompatibilities of the exercise of a public function with a gainful activity. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you. It probably doesn't make sense to take 45 minutes off for a small request. I believe that's not in anybody's interest. I would therefore like to point out, Mr President, that I have warned you at the working meeting, or I have informed you that the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members will not continue to participate in this Commission until further notice. Please take this into account in the context of the nominee decision appointing the President, the Vice-President, the members and their deputies to the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of the public function by virtue of a gainful activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you. Probably the city itself can't be withdrawn unless the college so decides. This is a proposal from a college that has not been amended and is voting on the proposal. You can remove or replace an individual name with an amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u199	Without anyone, at least Mr President, accusing you, but - perhaps only I do not understand - so do not allow the Slovenian National Party to withdraw its proposal for a member and alternate member. We are in line with the Rules of Procedure because I see that certain disapprovals have been proposed by the College, which is the only one in charge of this matter. But, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly, you have not given us this option. For the first time, you made it impossible for us to withdraw, and for the second time, don't let us decide who we're going to run for office. I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u200	Let me repeat, the decision has been taken by the College and after this decision belongs to you in one city. You are not obliged to take this place, but you can propose a change to the decision later, and this amendment will be reconsidered by the College and will be re-examined by the National Assembly. But here we now have a conclusion, as it is. And I will, of course, put such a decision to the vote. I think I've made myself clear. Of course, any proposal on which the College will discuss and vote and put forward a different proposal for the consideration and vote of the National Assembly can later be put to the college. Is there another procedural proposal? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u201	So, Mr President, as far as I understand you correctly, you are today imposing on us a membership that we do not want.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u202	Excuse me, again. The decision was prepared by the College and the College can make another decision, amended by any amendment, but we now have such a decision before the vote. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, do you have a procedural proposal? What kind?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Given that I am on this list or in the decision as a member, I would ask the National Assembly not to confirm this decision, because I really do not want to, and I also appeal to you, Sir President-respected, to be a member of this Commission. Therefore, I ask that the National Assembly does not approve this Decision and that colleges meet if there is no other option.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u204	I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes. We'll pick her up at 6:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The breakup's over. Please calm down, take your seats. Once again, let me explain the situation, the decision taken by the College of the President of the National Assembly speaks of the number of cities belonging to the individual Group of Members of this Commission. The proposal, which is being discussed and voted on by the National Assembly, has been received, including the names of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternates. In this proposal it is possible to amend and change names. I ask the representative of the Slovenian National Party whether he wants to amend the decision, which is equipped with names and which we will discuss and vote on. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. According to my information, my colleagues are just making a decision or amendment on a proposal for a decision, so that I think I should be in the process by now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you. I think that the amendment proposal, however, is so simple that you can say it and you don't have to wait for it to be written. He will come in writing, but there is no need to wait. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u208	The contents of the amendment are very simple. Therefore, the names shall be deleted at the time of the SNS, both in membership and in the case of the alternate member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u209	So the proposal is to delete Barbara Žgajner Tavš and Lucky Friend on page 2. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment? Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u210	While I know that the Slovenian National Party has the right to withdraw its names, this is in accordance with democratic principles. But given how enthusiastic she fought for this committee, she was a billmaker and a signatory, I think it would be right to consider again what they are doing. That's why I won't support this amendment. And I appeal to you, too, to allow them to reconsider in due course, say to the next meeting, and perhaps to remain on this committee. Although I myself and my colleagues in the LDS did not support this law, but in view of the enthusiasm, enthusiasm and drive of the Slovenian National Party, I think it is right to give it a short time to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u212	Your Honors are here! It was no longer my intention to discuss the matter. Part of what Comrade Terchon said is true. The Slovenian national party introduced the said law, a law whereby the two commissions were abolished and one joint new commission. In addition, when this law is passed, I think that 32 members of the National Assembly have initiated a procedure before the Constitutional Court, a constitutional assessment procedure, namely Members from the Liberal Democracy and Members from the Social Democrats. The request for a constitutional assessment, which is quite extensive, mentions the new commission proposed by the Slovenian National Party, which has seen a number of irregularities, including non-constitutionality and non-compliance with individual laws. As part of its press conference, the Liberal Democracy Group even said that it would not participate in such a commission, which was on 22 February. Therefore, in the National Party, we expected that, in accordance with the practice of the work of the National Assembly so far, in particular in the area of the distribution of management jobs, i.e. the management of standing committees and standing committees adopted in the National Assembly, will be subject to the principle that Members are equivalent and that a specific group, regardless of which party they belong, is, at least, 4 or 5 Members, have the right to a single leadership seat. On the basis of the act before us today, I stress that you have reached Members and Members of Parliament that I can apologize for the decimals, Members of the Liberal Democracy reach one of the Presidential seats, possibly the Committee or the Commission, and it seems completely inappropriate for us that the 6 members of the Slovenian National Party do not reach this same quota. So it's a different story than the one shown on Tercheon's side. It is a feeling of inequality in this National Assembly, when you, on the one hand, grant the right and the power of Members of the Liberal Democracy to obtain, with 3.9 Members, the leadership of the working body, in other words, the Liberal Democracy Club has 6 presidents of the working bodies. You just shut down or remove one and only one of our own, based on the shared key that this National Assembly confirmed at the College Institute. And don't talk like that about the need to think about it from our side. It is not true that it would require reflection on our part, if you continue this practice of such diversity of powers of Members. At the same time, allow me to conclude, because I just think that some Members are not and I do not want to be offensive, Comrade Terčon, understood the amendment proposal, the Slovenian party withdrawing the name. Thank you. Please, of course, support our own proposal that we do not want a certain name at a certain function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you. One more to explain. The proposal, which was made by the Slovenian National Party as an amendment, I understand as a notice from the Group of Members, as we have included all the names in this whole proposal on the basis of a notice from the Group of Members and, of course, as a rule, if the Group of Members withdraws these two names, it is impossible for the National Assembly to object. I will not even put to the vote because of this proposal. I am just informing you that these two names have been withdrawn at the request of the Slovenian National Parties and the entire proposal is as you were given with the material, without the names Barbara Žgajner Tavš and Srečko Friends. Anyone else want to discuss the proposal? No, no, no. Then, we move on to the vote. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and their deputies to the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, as you have received with the material, without the following two names: Barbara Žgajner Tavš and Srečko Friends. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda - the third item on the proposal for a collective agreement law. On Thursday 30 March 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on financial conglomerates. On Thursday 30 March 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 2. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - the proposal for a company law. On Friday, 31 March 2006, the National Assembly held a third hearing on that proposal. Since the law was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted, the government prepared the harmonisation amendments by 182, 523, 695 and 699 which you received on the bench. He wants to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 182. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 523. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 5. (The vote was 45.)(against 5.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 695. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 699. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are going through the 13th item of the agenda, on the harmonisation amendment to the draft law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders. The amendment was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You got the amendment on the bench. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mr. Tarchoon, explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u214	Yes, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u216	So I must say that it is obvious that the practice of adopting important acts of the National Assembly concerning the regulation of the area of Slovenians in place and around the world will be discontinued. Of course, you will say that we stop this practice, but this practice has been conditioned by the government by its work, and by the ruling coalition, from the introduction of the law to its final adoption. Throughout all three hearings, we actively cooperated, tabled amendments that had no political omens to say that they concerned substantive matters and regulating relations with Slovenians both in place and in the world. In our deep conviction, if adopted, we could enrich and optimize the law. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition has decided and voted in particular in each reading for all the proposed changes that have been made on our part, but they have in many ways coincided with what local organisations have also proposed. We do not wish to legitimize such an act by the ruling coalition. It is sad that the country government in Furlania - the country of Juliana has found more obedience to our relatives who live there, more actively involved them in the adoption and formation of the law, the land law, because Furlania - the country of July, that is, the country in Italy, have this power to regulate the status of our kinsmen with them. This parent country or ruling coalition has not done so in our case, and we regret that we cannot give our consent and cannot confirm such a law. We estimate that this missed opportunity could have been better, there was no special effort needed to be made to make the law better, but it has clearly declared the principle that it will be just as the ruling coalition would wish it. That's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please. On behalf of the Member of Parliament or in his own?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u218	In my own name. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, I will of course support the law and I am sure that we have a very good marriage. The law was written for Slovenes and Slovenes, or for our people living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, it was not written for the needs of the State or for the purposes of the government, but it was written for people living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. It is high time that this law came to be seen by the light of the world. It is true, however, that this will not break any tradition, since also in the resolution on Slovenians around the world in 2002 Member of Parliament, Jaš Zlobec, did not vote or vote against the resolution. The law is specifically intended to preserve the identity of the language and culture and takes into account all the entities that were once, i.e. in previous times, put on the side track, and today, of course, they will have the opportunity to actively participate and work in the welfare of Slovenia, Slovenian language and Slovenian culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-04-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you. We are voting on the law as a whole. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice day!
