ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning! Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and also inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: only Bevk from 12 a.m. forward, Feri Horvat, Jožef Horvat from 13 a.m., Ivan Jelen, Franz Kangler, Martin Mikolič, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Milan Petek, mag. Majda Potrat, Franz Puksich, mag. Borut Saiovic, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Janko Weber and Ambassador Davorin Terčon. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE PROVIDED IN TRANSPORT, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. I would like to inform you that a total time of 1 hour and 50 minutes is scheduled for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanations. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government is proposing a law amending and supplementing the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport. Most of the amendments to this Act are due to the adoption of Regulation No. 785/2004 laying down minimum insurance requirements for air carriers and operators in relation to passengers, luggage, cargo and third parties. Since this Regulation has been adopted, as you know, the Regulation also applies directly to our legal order. However, we have been forced to adopt this Regulation to amend the law in order to ensure that all provisions are in accordance with this Regulation. Thus, the Government proposes to terminate a national regime which is not in accordance with the Regulation. In accordance with the Regulation, compulsory insurance of the owner of an aircraft against liability for damage caused to passengers, luggage, cargo and third parties is new so that the insurance contract complies with the provisions of the Regulation already mentioned. In addition to compulsory insurance already provided for by the Regulation, it is also envisaged that the statutory compulsory emergency insurance of passengers, which would constitute more stringent requirements for domestic debtors than those applicable to foreign debtors, should be abolished. In addition, there are other changes in the law. The amendment also provides for a pre-emptive method of settlement of damages and the amount of flat-rate compensation which insurance companies allocate to the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute for the coverage of damage caused by traffic accidents. It is proposed that a flat rate of 6,5% of the calculated gross premium for compulsory car insurance should be applied. By supplementing the law, the Slovenian Insurance Association also allows insurance companies to maintain appropriate databases from which the Ministry of the Interior, for the purposes of electronic registration and extension of registration of motor vehicles, may obtain data on the completed insurance of passenger motor vehicles via the Internet or via the eGovernment portal. We have also added to this law a provision which obliges insurance undertakings to establish a contract to secure car liability via the Internet, with the government setting out a more detailed method of identifying customers. In the end, the law also provides for a certain alignment of criminal provisions with the offence law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you. I ask representatives of the government, given that they are to be present today by the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Transport, if anyone else wishes to give an opinion in accordance with the announcement of time. No, no, no. Then let's move on. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 14th meeting, on 15.2., the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. The College has decided to deal with it following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Transport attended the meeting of the Committee, followed by a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and a representative of the Slovenian Insurance Association. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on certain articles of the proposed law, was forwarded. The Committee was informed of the proposal to amend Article 32 of the legislative proposal by the Slovenian Insurance Association, pending the expiry of the deadline for the Coalition's Group's delegation to the 31st Article. The Committee has also drawn up proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service. We have heard about the purpose of this law, which was part of the so-called technical laws or harmonisation laws, where we align our legislation with those of the European directives. In the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the proposed amendments to the Committee almost fully resolve or respond to comments made in advance and, of course, we have also adopted these amendments to the Committee itself. Then we considered the amendment, the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which was also adopted. However, the amendment proposal was not adopted and was not adopted for the amendment of Article 32 by the Slovenian Insurance Association. On the basis of the amendments adopted, on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted and the amended proposal contained in the law, is also an integral part of this report and we propose that the Committee adopt this proposal of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you, you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. We will first hear the position of the SDS Group of Members, Comrade Srečko Hvauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on compulsory road transport insurance. It is about supporting compliance with the Regulation of the European Union. Secondly, we welcome the introduction of a lump sum that will simplify and shorten the settlement procedures. We also welcome the possibility of contracting online, which means that we will take another step towards developing electronic commerce and a more friendly administration. For this reason, we will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Ambassador Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members. Members of the Nova Slovenije Group - The Christian People's Party will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on mandatory transport insurance. The reason for amending the law is compliance with Regulation 785/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21.4.2004. The second reason for the change is to allow the Slovenian Insurance Association to maintain appropriate databases from which the Ministry of the Interior will obtain data on the completed insurance insurance of motor vehicles for electronic registration of motor vehicles via the Internet or via e-government. In accordance with that Regulation, amendments to the Articles relating to insurance for air carriers, passengers, luggage, cargo and third parties are proposed. Liability for damage caused to passengers, luggage, cargo or third parties shall also be established. Amendments to the law also provide for the abolition of compulsory accident insurance for passengers, which would mean more stringent requirements for domestic debtors than those applicable under the regulation to foreign entrants, thereby weakening the competitive capacity of our air carriers. The new bill also contains a 30-day period within which the insurance undertaking is obliged to inform the relevant authority of the insurance flow. The draft law also provides for a way of redressing damage in advance and provides for flat-rate compensation to be granted by insurance undertakings to the health insurance service for the purpose of covering damage caused by traffic accidents. It proposes another 6.5% of the insurance premium from the compulsory car insurance, which would compensate for the existing arrangements based on the agreement. The information collected by the insurance association and insurance companies will also serve insurance companies at a later stage, as this data is important for the assessment of insurance coverage. In this way, insurance companies are also given direct opportunity to obtain data on traffic accidents and the possibility of verifying the legal basis and the purpose of submitting personal data must be ensured. The section on offences also proposes the final alignment of criminal provisions with the law on offences. Instead of the term "punishment," the term "deep". The new law also regulates the ranges of fines for a legal person, independent entrepreneurs and the responsible person. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill as well as support the amendment tabled by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you. Ambassador Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport is being amended in particular to harmonise our legislation with Regulation 785/2004 concerning compulsory insurance in the field of air transport. It is about adapting EU legislation. This Regulation lays down minimum insurance requirements for air carriers and operators in respect of passengers, luggage, cargo and third parties. The current aviation insurance regime is, at least in part, broader or stricter than the EU regulation provides for in this area in relation to mandatory passenger insurance. In this way, our domestics are in an unequal position compared to others. We therefore support the regulation of this area in a way that will improve the starting point or competitive capacity of domestic debtors compared to foreign taxpayers in the field of compulsory aviation insurance. In addition, the proposal also regulates the area of electronic registration regulation or lays down the necessary records and other conditions to be met by insurance undertakings and are a prerequisite for the establishment of an electronic system for the regulation of compulsory insurance. This further expands the area of eGovernment, which is intended to enable individuals to manage administrative matters more quickly and in particular more effectively. As we have pointed out many times before, these changes or modernisation of administrative business are very welcome in all areas, including this. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have slightly extended the deadlines set for the establishment of electronic insurance regulation. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, it seems very important that we adopt such laws, which can also be implemented effectively directly in practice. The deadlines set must also be realistic and allow those responsible to carry out the specific tasks required by individual legislation within those deadlines. We believe that the bill is also appropriate from this point of view. The proposed law therefore brings good solutions, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support it together with the amendments of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Borovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. In six years of working in the National Assembly, I have never met an even more misleading law than this. Deceptive. The law is intended to result from Regulation 785/2004 laying down minimum insurance requirements for air carriers and operators. In the presentation of the government representatives, we heard a sentence, "there are also some other changes". In fact, these other changes are essential to the proposer who intended to bring these changes through the other door on the basis of a regulation. And you won't say I'm talking to you. Let's go in one order. The objectives are to extend the powers of insurance companies which are private companies to obtain data from the Ministry of the Interior. If you've read it, but I know you haven't, this marriage, the truth is the other way around. In reverse, because with this law and with changes, the insurance company, which is a limited company or a limited liability company, because I own a private company, or anyone else, will be able to have more powers and more access to data than the police and the judiciary. See paragraphs 7, 8, 9. Look at him. Come in. The determination to bring criminal provisions into line with the law on offences. You know what this means if you read the article, that the judicial branch of power will now be an insurance company, not a court. Does he even know what this national council is up to? Look at these articles. I'll quote them. The EMSO and the tax number, which extend the insurance database. And now we're under Article 38 of the Constitution. How much this State-Court Commission is set up to investigate this second or third case, how many routes and doors it must open to access data such as the tax number, the EMSO and so on. Here we will give them to a person who is a limited liability company. Press the button and you'll get what you want. Now, very specific. Article 9 of the new law extends the right of conduct to insurance undertakings for each individual in that country, his EMHO and VAT. Tell me the reason, why? Why is that? Let's move on. It shall disseminate the database referred to in paragraph 5 in the sixth paragraph on offences and criminal proceedings of a party. What the insurance company should know about the offences and in general, not as was said only about traffic and others, about criminal and criminal matters. What does the insurance company need to know about the right of the insurance company to know? Paragraph 6, paragraph 3, empowers the insurance undertaking to enter all DURS data for each individual. All the company records, Durs. The fifth point extends the rights of insurance undertakings to obtain data from the Ministry of Justice, from criminal records, from records of offences and from records of criminal points and records of all types. What's the point? Tell me why, is the insurance company as a limited liability company more than the Ministry of the Interior, more than the judicial branch of the government, more than the judicial branch of the government? I'm sorry or not. I feel like a Jew in Hitler's time. Procedures are specified if someone is guilty of any offence and pleads guilty to the insurance bill. With this voucher, he confessed the guilt and from here on, the insurance company took the action. Why does she need to know what other crimes anyone among us has committed, anyone? Paragraph 8, an insurance company may obtain all data and access to police records without a specific requirement. And now I'm going to read to you, if you don't know the constitution, unfortunately, Article 38. The protection of personal data shall be ensured, the use of personal data prohibited, contrary to the purpose of their collection, collection, processing, purpose and use, control and protection of the confidentiality of personal data shall be determined by law. Of course, it's really great to do that. Now we're going to write in all the laws that everyone has the right to access all of your data. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u13	Comrade Barovich, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u14	And we'll end Article 38 of the Constitution. [[...]] Okay. Slovenian National Party, at least I will launch a constitutional review [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u15	I owe every speaker who exceeds 15 minutes to stop, 15 seconds to stop. I'm asking you not to ask me to do this. I ask you to respect the rules of procedure of the National Assembly so much as to do so yourself. Comrade Barovic, for the second time, I ask you to take into account the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which apply to all, not just you. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The representative of the DeSUS delegation shall be appointed. Comrade Willy Rezman, please. Allow me to welcome this time the youngest visitors to the National Assembly, who have joined us on the balcony, a nice greeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u16	The views of the parliamentary groups and the bill-makers were not presented at the same frequency and we in the DeSUS Group do not see the excessive reasons why we should spread the fear of this law. [[...]] It is right to think about it; it is right that we are also critical, but we have not seen the fears of this sort, as they were presented. However, it is about changing the law and supplementing the law on compulsory insurance in transport, and it is about continuing something that we have already adopted, supplemented and amended in last year. It shows that our way of life is such that when we do not have sufficiently well - thought - out all the consequences and ambitions of a marriage, it is often necessary to complement it. This is probably not the best thing to do, but we have it in front of us now and we need to do what the proposer proposes, and we support this, above all, for the sake of being aligned, among other things, with European regulation. Our way of life is such that one of the fundamental features is strong mobility in different forms and this mobility, except for the quality it brings us, brings even a variety of flaws, weaknesses and reminds us that we have to be careful. We cannot always stand up for ourselves as individuals or protect ourselves from the dangers that it poses, so it is right that this insurance area is regulated so that trust can affect us even when we travel. Because it's about being protected, except for us, our other goods, so that the luggage will be protected. In short, in order for this area to be fully regulated, we will attach our votes to the adoption of this law. In particular, we believe that this will mean, in particular, in the most problematic area now, access to information, information gathering, processing of information, this will be of some greater efficiency. It is likely that insurance companies also have greater security against possible abuses or any such attempts, and we think that this proposal is good enough to support it, despite the concerns expressed and the amendments that are likely to be adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 6.3. which you received a little earlier on the table. In doing so, I remind you that the review of the amendments is too extensive to release the amendment to Article 3, which is unjustifiablely included in the review of the amendments, because the fact is that this article has not been amended in the amended draft law and is therefore not possible to amend it. That is why I will not put to the debate of this Article, nor will I put to the vote later. We are going to the debate or I am putting Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and SLS to Article 15 above. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anyone around this article and the amendment want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anyone around this article and the amendment want a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 30.b and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] This is also where I conclude the debate. We have concluded with a possible debate on the amendments to be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda or at the latest at 20.40 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE WAR VETERINARY LAW, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. I would like to inform you that a total time of discussion is foreseen for 4 hours and 30 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. There are no government representatives. The draft law, however, considered the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the disabled as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. He's not here either. I'm taking five minutes off because we're so far ahead of schedule, and I hope that this time government officials, as well as the president of the working body, will come. We'll resume the session at 10 and 35 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u18	means that we will extend the recess or suspension of the sitting and continue at 10 at 11 am is too much, 10.50 hours to keep the minister safe with us. [[...]] [[...]] Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, the rest present! We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - that is, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on war veterans. Meanwhile, we were joined by Minister Drobnič, whom on this occasion, of course, I welcome and invite him to the floor. Minister, I ask for a brief presentation or further explanation of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow a few brief, additional explanations for changes and additions to the War Veterans Act. These are the changes we have made because of the shortcomings that have emerged in time, in practice and in the application of this law. Veterans' organisations took part in the drafting of the law, which made certain comments. The Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Justice, Finance and the Government's Law Office also participated. They are particularly responsible for specific tasks after their duties. The main starting point in the drafting of a bill concerning the cycle of beneficiaries of the status of war veteran is to include operators whose duties, after the then applicable rules on defence and protection, are the duty of work, the duty to act in civil protection, the duty to act in the observation and information service. In this regard, additions are, of course, presented to include workers in the administrative bodies responsible for defence matters, which were then applicable legislation, on duty. The status of a war veteran shall also be ensured to the employees of the Republic administrative authorities responsible for the area of defence training. The following category was negotiated with representatives of the then Yugoslav People's Army during armed conflicts as authorised representatives of the Republic of Slovenia. Then persons who were involved in the establishment and protection of barricades and other obstacles and persons who, by order of the Republic Secretary of the Interior, carried out the tasks of secret storage, arms, ammunition or documentation, the secret installation of police units or were involved in the provision of police units in the field during armed conflicts. Furthermore, the members of the Special Logistics and Welfare Unit, which provided conditions for the accommodation and work of the Republic Coordination Commission, and the persons who worked in the Observation and Information Service, as well as those who were in the Visual Observatory. Members of the Republic City or Municipal Civil Protection Unit, as well as their specialised units, who performed enormous tasks in the area of armed conflict, as well as drivers and health workers in emergency medical vehicles and members of the operational composition of firefighting organisations. To the leaders and those workers of the then gathering centres for prisoners of war who protected the assembly centres and prisoners of war. Further management officers of the customs service. These are mainly all categories that are more clearly defined in this law. The status of the organiser of the manoeuvre structure of national protection would also, as proposed, belong to the Deputy Mayor of National Protection. In cases where the beneficiaries of the veteran status have performed tasks or duties in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia, which have not been maintained by official records under the rules in force at that time, or which have not been maintained following the amended proposal of the law, the application for recognition of the status of a war veteran would be decided by a decision. The audit will be carried out by the Ministry of Field within six months of its receipt. Furthermore, there are changes in the financing of associations or associations of war veterans where a contract is concluded on the basis of met criteria, taking into account in particular the programme of society or association, the number of members of war veterans and property owned by society. However, more precise criteria for financing the activities of a company or association shall be laid down by the Minister within one month of the entry into force of this Act. I propose that these amendments and additions to the war veterans law be adopted by this State Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u20	Minister, thank you for further explanation. I invite the president of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, colleague Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to welcome everyone here. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered this law, which we are currently discussing, at its 11th regular session, 15.2. In the work of the committee, representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, representatives of the Association of NOV Fighters, representatives of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia, representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and representatives of the Customs Union of Slovenia. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which also made specific comments on Articles 1, 4, 6, 8 and 9 of the proposal. Members of the Committee also received comments from customs workers of Koroška and Štajerska, Customs Union of Slovenia, comments from the Association of Fighters and Participants of NOV Slovenia and comments by Branko Hojnik. They also took note of the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia or the opinion of its Commission, which does not support the proposal. The amendments to the bill were submitted by the three coalition groups, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party, Nova Slovenija, Slovenian People's Party to Articles 1, 6, 8 and 9, the DeSUS Group to 9, the LDS Group to the 1st and 9, the SD Group of Members. [[?]] Mr Ljubo Germič, Member of Parliament, to Article 2. In the context of the debate, which took place mainly in the articles to which the amendments were submitted, particular attention was paid to the debate on the enlargement of the beneficiary circles proposed in Article 2. While the debaters agreed that it was necessary to ensure the status of a war veteran to those groups involved in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia in the military aggression of 1991, which had not yet been included in the law, they would have earned this by virtue of their actions both before and after the aggression itself. Nevertheless, concerns were also expressed that by over-expanding the rights to war status, only the veterans would actually evaluate or even grant status to someone who was on the aggressor's side. Some believe that this fear is exaggerated as the law in force in Article 4 provides that the status of a person acting on the aggressor side is not recognised, even if it fulfils the conditions for recognition of status. Following the discussion, a number of groups involved in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia in the military aggression in 1991, which had not yet been included in the law, were proposed to recognise the status of war veteran on the basis of the amendments tabled. In particular, the representatives of the customs union also drew attention to this issue in the debate, as they pointed out that they had been released again in the proposed amendment of the law and that only around 240 of them had been granted status, which the Committee had also done when adopting the amendment on this issue. At the end of the discussion, attention was also paid to the envisaged termination of the law on the financing of the Union of National Liberation Wars of Slovenia. Some discussers also drew attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on this issue, which points out that the proposed termination of the law is time-consumingly inconsistent with the entry into force and application of the financing of associations or associations of war veterans on the basis of this novel. In the context of the debate on individual articles and the debate on the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the three parliamentary groups by Articles 1, 6, 8 and 9 and did not adopt the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Members by 9, LDS by 9, SD [[?]] to 2nd and to 2nd Article. The amendment to Article 1 of the LDS Group has become irrelevant. It also adopted its amendments, i.e. the Committee, on Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. All that has been adopted is presented in the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you for presenting the Committee's report. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much to the chairman. Dear colleagues, esteemed colleague, Mr. Minister. Today, we are deciding to extend the number of beneficiaries of the status of war veteran in the self-sustaining war. About a war in which, of course, Slovenia was not only defended by those who were in uniforms, armed persons, but also by many other employees in various services or engaged in other activities. Of course, there were also many volunteers, one of whom was accepted, one of whom was rejected. The Slovenian self-sustainment war was short and, of course, it did not somehow develop into general human resistance, although it was clear that it would. The plebiscite results are already talking about it. Of course, even because of purely technical matters, many were unable to participate in this war. The fighting was, of course, mainly on the edge of Slovenia, not in the central work and, of course, also those who were armed, not all participated in armed actions, so it is certainly justified that even those who have been excluded so far have been granted the status of a war veteran in some way. In extending the excuses to the status of a veteran of war, we must therefore take into account the characteristic of our own self-sustaining war and thus grant status. Of course, it is not, as we have heard in the debate on the Committee, to evaluate the status of a war veteran. It was just that the Slovenians had a very positive, good, courageous response to the situation in 1991. Therefore, of course, the proposal that the status of a war veteran should also be given to customs officers who were there at border crossings in 1991 at the time of JLA’s aggression against the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to all those who were involved by order of the police in carrying out tasks relating to the establishment, protection of barricades and other obstacles, it would certainly be good to include those who were assigned by order of headquarters and territorial defence commanders. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we support such an expansion of beneficiaries and would also support a wider one. The other thing that is more problematic, at least for us, is the unjustified and incomprehensible abolition of the law on financing in the Union of National Liberation War fighters of Slovenia, which we Members of the Liberal Democracy have failed to point out at the meeting of the mother's working body. In view of the fact that the Slovenians were granted a sovereign state, many are deserving, but that history did not begin in 1991 with a self-serving war, nor in 1985 with protests against the destruction of large territorial defence units in Slovenia, but not in 1941 with a national-liberal war, and if we go back to history, we Slovenians have, in fact, sought to be independent at least so publicly, clearly and loudly since 1848. The period of antifascism, which did not begin in 1941, is also strong in 1939, but in 1923, at least in Primorska, 1922-23. And all of this also affected the fact that in 1991 we were able to fight this, so desired our independence. People today organised in the Union of Fighters Associations managed to preserve the identity of the Slovenian nation, Slovenian national consciousness and to extend the continuity of the struggle for Slovenian independence. It is not only those warnings of the legal and regulatory service that the proposed termination of the law on the financing of the Associations of Fighters is temporarily inconsistent with the application and application of the financing of associations or associations of war veterans under this amendment of the law. Such a decision can have a lot of bad consequences. The fear of representatives of members of the Union of Fighters is not justified. Who's been bitten by a snake [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u24	Comrade Gulic, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u25	He's coloring the ropes. [[...]] I know. We will support the new law in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club if the assembly accepts our [[...]] [[Dig up the mic.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of SD Group of Members, fellow Member Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Assembly! The War Veterans Act was passed in 1995, was revised twice, and it also had a constitutional opinion. With that law, persons who, in the military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, committed their duties in its defence as members of the carrier defence forces were granted the status of a war veteran. According to the applicant, on 31.12.2004, 36,356 persons were recognised as war veterans who claimed this status on the basis of their participation in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of the proposed law is to re-examine whether all defence operators are legally involved in the protection of the Republic of Slovenia, whose contribution to the defence of the Republic of Slovenia would justify this. The Veterans' Association will thus extend to officials of the administrative authorities responsible for defence matters. Workers responsible for the area of defence training in the Republic's administrative authorities, who coordinated and implemented measures under the jurisdiction of the district, workers or persons involved in negotiations with representatives of the then Yugoslav People's Army, drivers and health workers in emergency medical vehicles and members of the operational bet of firefighting organisations and others not to mention. According to a government representative on the labour force, this means that the number of beneficiaries under the law could increase by about 5,000. How's the bill? In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the aim of the government is to check that the law really does involve groups of people, and we can agree. However, we believe that individual citizens and citizens who have voluntarily responded to calls for territorial defence and police have also played an important role in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the territorial defence and police, criminal and intelligence security services, as well as other services that have participated in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia, have made available vehicles, construction and agricultural machinery, apartments, economic buildings and we are confident that these people did not then calculate whether this is worth it or whether they will ever be able to benefit from it. Customs at border crossings also played an important role during that time. At the time of the aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, customs controls were carried out at the border crossings, thus directly defending their non-refoulement. Of course, they also cooperated with the police, as with members of the territorial defence. In the Socialist Group of Members, however, we oppose the abolition of the financing of the union of fighters in this law, for the following reason. Budget item 4904 The NOV Association of Fighters has decreased by around 70 million since 2004. However, we can expect the government to reduce these funds in the future. I hope not because of ideological concerns. Although we will support the law in the Socialist Group of Members, we expect you, colleagues and colleagues, to support our two amendments that are actually extending the circle of beneficiaries, but we believe that they are justified and justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, MEP mag. Franz Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to the War Veterans Act are a relatively short law. On the surface, it's divided into three sets. The first set refers to the financing of societies or the organisation of war veterans. The second set extends a series of persons who have the right to gain the status of a war veteran. The third set solves the complications of the payment of pensions to war veterans, who have already been recognized by the time of their participation in the self-sustaining war as well as a new recognition to the beneficiaries. All of this will be recognised as a special period, which will be counted during their working hours. In New Slovenia we share fear with those who believe that after the amendment of this law there is too many beneficiaries to gain the status of war veteran from the war on Slovenia in 1991. According to some estimates, there are around 5,000 beneficiaries. In particular, it is feared that the enlargement of beneficiaries under this law would devalue the importance of the veteran war on Slovenia. On the other hand, the circle of beneficiaries after this amendment of the law extends to those beneficiaries who, for any reason, were released from the previous amendment of the law in 1999, and should have obtained this status according to the criteria set out in the current law. The law currently in force does not address quite a few categories of beneficiaries who have been actively involved in the defence of the country during the aggression against Slovenia, even with weapons. To me, the most typical representatives of this forgetfulness are mainly security guards in prisons and assembly centres, who have guarded prisoners of war and others who have fallen out of the previous amendment of the law for some unknown reason. There was a lot of debate on Articles 1, 2 and 9. In the debate on Article 9 of the Law, several times the opposition and the representative of the Association of Fighters pointed out that the constitutional law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter gave the fighters a special position or special protection. At the meeting, the representative of the Government argued that Article 18 of the Charter provided for the protection of rights for NOB fighters at least to the extent guaranteed by the regulations of the time. This is also ensured by this war veterans law, which does not change anything in these provisions. On this point, I must clearly reject the position of the representative of the fighters, who on the Committee has expressed the view that this government has been confronted with an unkind, restrictive attitude towards them and is complicating us with the funding of their organisation. Above all, they are disturbed by the well-known and negative views of the competent minister and the political party from which the Minister comes. For these reasons, they are convinced that it would be inappropriate to set the criteria for financing a union of fighters, which would be a matter of the Minister's discretion. The position of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party is very clear in this case. We are confident that individual veterans of the union of fighters will continue to have the recognition of all the rights they have already been granted. We are also convinced that all veterans of the union of fighters at the time of the Ministry of the Master of Drobnič received the payment or used all the benefits that go with marriage. However, the rights and duties of society or organisations will or should be equal to the rights of other societies to which the status of society or organisation is recognised in the public interest and this seems fair to us. Personally and my colleagues in Novi Slovenija do not see any need for the organization of NOB fighters to have a different or more privileged status from other veteran societies, which also recognises the status of society in the public interest. We agree and support the solution in the first article of this Law to take into account, in particular, the social programme, the number of members of war veterans and the property owned by society or the association of war veterans. In New Slovenia, we expect that the amended law will not create new injustices in assigning war veteran status. On the other hand, we are also aware that it is virtually impossible to cover all those who personally believe that their work and engagement during the war for Slovenia are entitled to status [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u30	My friend Capuder, it's time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u31	We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you for saying that again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we accept the status or recognition of the status of a war veteran to the people who are a national being, or if we call it freedom and independence of the nation, sacrificed themselves to the extent that they were willing to risk their lives as a symbol of the true honour that every country recognizes, cherishes and protects with a special feeling. Since the birth of the war veterans law in the Slovenian People's Party, we have not been very fond of the fact that the status of a war veteran is to be divided or recognised on the basis of overly loose criteria, for it can very quickly happen that this symbolic value, which I mentioned earlier, which should be the status of a war veteran, is to be divorcised to all. In our view, by introducing certain categories of beneficiaries to recognise the status of a war veteran, a war on Slovenia, this principle has made quite a difference, resulting in new and new arguments to which all this status should still belong. The proposal of this Act extends the range of beneficiaries to categories which can be claimed to have not been directly at risk in view of the nature of the work they were doing during the war on Slovenia before and after. Of course, it is also possible to judge these issues from a different perspective. If we are looking at these issues as valuable, it would be appropriate, of course, that the extent of the rights from the recognised status of the war veteran of the person concerned should be considered, to recognise also selectively, but when a certain right is once recognised by a person with a law, it is difficult to take it or to change it. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a law, by also realizing that, on the basis of accession to this novelty, a number of new arguments can be expected to extend the range of beneficiaries to the status of a war veteran, but we believe that, given the symbolic significance of the status, there is still a need to be more selective. However, the war on Slovenia, in order to win the Slovenians a country of its own, is of such value that, in the case of eligibility for recognition of status to anyone else from that period, if there are therefore strong enough and credible arguments, there should be no hesitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Comrade Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian National Party, we are pleased and proud that you have also heard from the Ministry about the initiatives of the Federation of War Veterans for Slovenia and that you have done much with the possibility of extending the beneficiaries given in the bill. For it is primarily about moral action, colleagues and colleagues, and the attitude of all those Slovenes and Slovenes, as well as others, I also recognize others who in those critical and crisis days said "for this country, I will also give life". However, we have four specific concerns in the Slovenian National Party, which we hope and wish that this National Assembly will, of course, take into account, in particular, moral values. The first thought is that the term "deserved" would change, otherwise it sounds like an editorial correction, but it seems to me that it is not about deciding who deserves the status and who does not deserve the status, probably there is a more morally stimulating word, that is one of the comments. Second. It seems very fair to me and right that the objectives and principles of the law have to be found, once again, to say that it is right for us to determine the eligibility of who, once again, is deserving of this expression, which I would not like, who has participated in the self-sustaining war. In doing so, we would like to point out, once again, that such an action and such a measure are absolutely correct, but we point out that such a measure is necessary, that is to say that the determination of eligibility is necessary, which is why I believe that most colleagues and colleagues agree in the National Assembly, to apply also to other content, which we will probably talk a lot about, which is called deleted. The Slovenian national party has proposed this concept of identification a long time ago, and if we can already identify with our own who it was - with ours, with those who gave or would give their lives for Slovenia - a right to status, then it would be even more justified to identify such things in other areas. The two contents are essential for the Slovenian National Party. The first content is the status of the Union of National Liberation Warriors in this law and, of course, theirs, in narrations, "justifiable" fear - and I know that there is nothing to be afraid of, because they have also proved and demonstrated by their moral actions that they fought at some time for a country and for a few people, for all of us. Here I would like to point out that it would be highly recommended and necessary to take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which points out that any change in relation to the Union of Fighters' Associations in this Act is an infringement of Article 18 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Charter of Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that it would be fair, right from all of us, to take into account the status of the fighters in the framework of the Veterans Act and in the context of the veteran content, we should not in any way shrink, nor should we have moral or material rights. I think no number, no material value is as harmful as destroying the moral values of an act. Finally, I would ask all colleagues, if they have time to read the tapegram of the 11th meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is very short, at least as to what our colleague Srečko Friends said. We can't talk about customs executives, we're talking about all customs, customs was exposed to aggression first! I think that in this case it is necessary to support the amendment which, I think, was tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members and I think it is actually right and fair for customs officials to be eliminated and left customs officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u37	Dear Mr Vice President, colleague and colleague! The DeSUS Group, with mixed feelings, accepts the expansion of the possibility of establishing the status of a veteran of war for Slovenia. This is because it regrets that a number of serious and reasoned comments were not taken into account at the time of the drafting of this law, because we do not object to the recognition of the status of a war veteran to all those who, in any way and with a certain amount of risk, contributed a significant proportion to the fact that our defence at that time acted in a consistent and successful manner, but we fear that such enlargement is one that would discriminate against a whole range of those that do not. If I only list the level of local communities, some health teams, such as those working in the water pipeline, because if we have recognised the status of those who, say, cut off the power grids, then we should also admit to those who closed the water to them, because the water was more important to those barracks at the time and that they did not have it, they put much pressure on the management of the barracks to give in. In one word, we want to say that enlargement is necessary in that extent of the most deserving members of the territorial defence and the police, and we are thinking of armed guards in prisons, who not only had to protect prisoners of war who could be rescued by the army, but also had to protect the wider area of individual prisons in an armed manner. So I think they were unwarrantedly released at the first stage. It also concerns some medical teams that had to be on duty and so on. And in the work of this law on work duties, on those who were assigned to work duties, it is necessary to say that this matter has been achieved by the largest number of beneficiaries, for example, by ministries, by municipal administrations, by working organisations, including kindergarten teachers, because mothers were assigned to work duties, even rural women had to do disproportionately more work themselves, because they were boys and men in territorial defence, in positions. In short, if we looked at the eligibility of all those who helped and cooperated, then this thing would spread to a hundred and thousands, which we think is unfounded in terms of asserting the status of a war veteran. We are also convinced that the Association of War Veterans has been preparing for a long time to take account of additional beneficiaries on the one hand and, on the other hand, wants to increase the number of war veterans as a whole, so that they can demand more resources from the state budget and allocate them for their needs and operations. We also think that it is a mistake to change the way in which the Association of the Associations of Nova Slovenije is financed by the law, because we are convinced that, even though funding of veteran organisations should not be a free assessment of the resortary minister, whatever it will be, because this can also mean a completely political decision without a reasonable measure of criteria necessary for some organisation to give so much or more money or take it away, as our resort minister has shown in the preparation of the budget for 2006 and 2007, where it has significantly reduced certain resources without specific interpretation, and has increased significantly to others not to say double or beyond. This is how we think it would be right for a law to be adopted for the financing of veteran organisations. This would be the most assured of long - term justice, but they did not want to accept it either in the previous government or now there is no such willingness. In short, we have difficulty in uniting support for this law, not because it would be against those who belong to it and most of them are listed here. We have problems because the definition of financial consequences is unrealistic. It's also about the number. We believe that there will not be 5,000 of them, but 15,000 of them, and that the financial consequences will be disproportionately greater and that our Members will therefore vote in their own way, as they will understand that this law of support is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you. And here comes the presentation of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u39	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Nice hello to you all! Slovenia has been celebrating this year for 15 years, with its determination and unwavering courage to defend plebiscite with the vast majority of its own independent country. Unfortunately, there were some people in Slovenia who were opposed to or even skeptical about the project. Many brave people participated in Slovenia's national independence project, but this project did not only take place for 10 days of war for Slovenia, as some want to depress our own self-serving war. This project was implemented intensively at least one year before the start of the war and was implemented in a manner that was not accessible to the JLA intelligence service at the time. And that is why our destiny was dependent on individuals who set their lives for the Slovenian independence project and placed the fate of their loved ones in great uncertainty. A lot of people have been involved in this project with weapons. There were many of them on the battlefields where the fights with JLA took place, and there were many of them in the emergency support services without which they would not have been successful. It is appropriate to grant each participant of Slovenian independence a suitable status and a certain range of rights under this title, as this is a minimum, which the Slovenian State can do for them. To this end, we have already adopted a law on war veterans, which, in its decisions, has defined the criteria for obtaining the status of a war veteran and the extent of the rights that have also belonged to the individual in this title. Regrettably, this law was such in the basic concept that it contained solutions that were discriminatory and criminal. On the basis of this law, the status of a war veteran has been acquired by a number of persons who were not at risk of life-threatening or life-threatening at the time of independence. More. In the field, it is possible to hear evidence from real war veterans that this status has been acquired in an inexplicable way by a number of people who have been waiting for the end of the war for Slovenia on the other side of the battle line. On the other hand, persons who acted directly on the battlefields were not entitled to this status. Let me just mention a few of these. They were firefighters, health workers, customs officers, TK printers, and they could still be listed. It is true that such status cannot be properly granted to each of these groups. Surely, however, each one of them who acted directly on the battlefields and highlighted his life. The main purpose of the amendment to the war veterans law that we are considering today is, above all, to try to best eliminate the injustices against individuals that have been systematically introduced by the current law. In the SDS, we believe that, while the optimal solution would be one that would distinguish between the contribution of individuals to the self-sustaining war and individual groups to different statuses. However, it is no longer possible to summarize such solutions, since the status rights already acquired by individual groups of beneficiaries under the original law cannot be reversed. The bill we are currently considering is an expanded set of beneficiaries for the status of a war veteran. However, it was a difficult decision before the government, how to spread this call widely so as not to cause new injustices or even more to devalue those most deserving of such status. In the SDS, we believe that with some amendments adopted on the Committee on Labour, the Family and the Social Proposal for the original text, we have led to an optimal solution in the given situation, so we will also support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 3.3.2006. I am putting two paragraphs and two amendments to the debate. First, the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups of Members. Who wants a word? Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, we appreciate the Government's proposal to re-evaluate whether the inclusion of a circle of persons in the rights of war veterans for Slovenia has been appropriate or not. We do not imagine that we know the right answers to all the questions, but we have a very serious feeling that the same is true for the government. For we have formulated our proposals solely on the basis of the proposals of the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia and on the basis of the proposals of the customs union of Slovenia, which have proved that, by mistake, there are groups unjustifiably left out that would belong to the circle of veterans of war for Slovenia. When we read their explanations, we thought they were right. It is therefore not logical to speak of the possibility that if part of the direct members of the war on Slovenia were involved in the establishment and protection of barricades, those who made such decisions on the basis of the headquarters and the territorial defence commanders could not be involved. They were directly involved, they were directly in danger of war, and why we should exclude the headquarters and commanders of the territorial defence who have taken such tasks and decisions is simply not clear to us. Nor is it clear to us how it can be considered to be a participant in the self-sustaining war of the one who participated in the covert tasks of weapons storage, ammunition, mine-explosive means and similar to the tasks of the Republic Secretary for Home Affairs, but it is not the one who has participated in the same tasks on the basis of the decisions of the territorial defence commanders. In one case or another, in my view or in our opinion, it may also be a matter of value judgements, who has made the right decisions and who has not. I think that this is not correct in this case, and we have no arguments that the government has so far offered us, why our amendments, once again, prepared on the basis of associations affected, are not justified. And the third, also in Article 2, concerns customs officials. Indeed, on our proposal, partial amendments have been adopted in this part and the country's working body has adopted our amendment and has included all of them, but not only the management officers of the customs service, but in this part, we would like to clarify whether the implementation of operational tasks following the decisions and instructions of the Republic's coordination group includes a proposal specifically proposed by the customs representatives, i.e. the actual exercise of customs control tasks at the border. If this also covers and is indisputable, then we can consider that the substantive adoption of our third amendment by the decision of the parent working body is, if not, then it is not and we do not see why it would not be, because it is certain that the customs officers with direct border activity have done the most for the then activity of Slovenia in defence and have also been most directly exposed, because we know that many of the borders were directly visited by the Yugoslav Army with their tanks and armed forces and that the performance of the customs service in that part was the same or equally dangerous as the conduct of the border police service. I therefore expect that the government will change its position and, above all, that the majority of these amendments will be supported by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you. A colleague of Barovic signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. I also call on all colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, irrespective of the political colour, to examine and support the amendments to Article 2. It's three changes or four. It is clear in point d of Article 2 that persons who have been in the area and during armed conflicts under the order of the police and, as the amendment, the headquarters and the command of the territorial defence units add, we think, are completely and completely logical, since, last but not least, if they are already two veteran associations, they need not be separated if they represent the role of these people in the amendments themselves and in the law. Of course, we also support the inclusion of the so-called manoeuvre structure proposed by colleagues from the Social Democrats by their amendment under Article 2(2). These are the people who, by hiding not only weapons, not just food, but also people, put their lives before guns. And I think they are among those who must be included in this law and in the veteran status. I am also stressing the amendment in particular, I am speaking to Article 2, paragraph 2, where we are most honest and only fair if we write into the law as proposed by the amendment: a customs officer. All the workers were exposed at the time, one way or another. With all due respect, of course, also to managers who are currently identified in the law as the only beneficiaries. That our intention and honesty to the moral values of all those who have fought for independent Slovenia and who could be included in the Veterans Act and, of course, also have a certain and duty and rights, we will also support the amendment envisaged by the Coalition Group under the new Article 2, paragraph 2, and clearly also exposes those who have had a lot of work and a lot of stability in their relations with international institutions at that time. We'll support that, too. I think that reason in this national assembly should prevail and that we should actually define the categories that, in fact, and especially their moral values and actions, are meant to mention them and to include them in the proposed law that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you. Comrade Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Well, with the third amendment to Article 2, we would like to give the applicants the opportunity to recognise the right of military veteran status, too, I think that the 14 diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who, on the basis of the decision of the then Executive Council of the Republic of Slovenia, were assigned as a permanent escort to international missions which were immediately following the 10-day war in the context of the establishment of the peace state and the corollary withdrawal of the army in the territory of the then Republic of Slovenia and were, as such, exposed directly throughout that period to great personal and other risks. Let me just mention that one of these diplomats was also captured by the Yugoslav Army at the airport in Churches and was released only after the direct intervention of international diplomacy. Thus, we believe that these few people have contributed greatly to the calming of the situation and also to the direct impact on the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia as a country, and that they are at least so justified that, for these efforts, the State grants them status as, for these risks, as, say, administrative workers in the departments of the internal affairs of the municipalities of that time, as well as to that department for the defence of the municipalities of that time, which were administrative workers. Thus, after consulting several times with the defenders of this right for these diplomats at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I think that we can freely acknowledge the status of these few people. On the question of the second amendment, I am asked somehow the same question as they are asking me at the time of the consideration of the draft law on the home working body. There is certainly no justification for recognising the status of managers of the then Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and not of those customs officers who have carried out such and other measures on the terminals of goods. However, it was one of the important issues that was raised by several then customs officers who were customs officers at the border crossings at the commodity terminals, who had played a practical role in the former five-column role as advocates of the then forces on the side of the territorial defence and the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, by changing the starting points for the recognition of this status to the employees of the Republic Customs Administration, we have changed the fact that this recognition cannot be only for managers but for all. Now, whether the excellence contained in such a provision in point L is such that it covers these eligible customs officers on the commercial terminals or not, I do not know enough personally to say that this is the case. According to the representative of the bill's proposer, it was ensured that this was the case. So I would say then, in this capacity, perhaps this writing in this amendment is so unnecessary. But I don't know if that's true. Following the assurance we have received and therefore the Committee has also adopted the amendment that we have deleted the leadership, this is guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. I give my word to Ambassador Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, colleague Žnidaršič has already pointed out that at least some of us have quite a few concerns about the adoption of this law. I have them myself. And I would have fewer if any of the proposed amendments were accepted. I intend to support the amendments to Article 2. However, I estimate that the amendments under order numbers 1 and 2 are at least the same if they are not more justified than the amendment under order number 3. I'm risking some assessment that maybe the law would have been otherwise written when another ministry was preparing it. I risk the assessment that the amendments would have been given a different fate if a second working body had been established, and I regret that the amendment that was proposed on the basis of the letter that I am holding in the hand that Mr Branko Hojnik has provided to all of us for a very simple reason. Of course, I wasn't at this board meeting, and I don't know exactly how the debate went, because I didn't go to the magnetogram, but I know from empirical experience, from personal experience, and I'm also a veteran that Mr Branko Hojnik has made a significant contribution, he's significantly more engaged than I am, and I have a status, and he doesn't. And I'm in a lot of emotional distress when we meet. Me with some status and rights that come out of it, and he doesn't. Such errors should probably be corrected. The amendment under point 1 and point 2 would be more justified than the third one signed by the three quarters of the coalition. I will therefore vote in favour of the amendments by first supporting them, but when and if they are not voted on, my concerns or reservations about supporting the law will be so much greater. However, this has nothing to do with the concern that those who are entitled have no status to receive this status. The reservations are linked to this, so that those who are eligible do not get it, because we do not want to grant them this status, but they deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you. I give the word to Ambassador Joseph Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to discuss the amendment under number 3, which concerns persons who come out in some way or who have already been in diplomatic services. They may have had lower status, but they were engaged in international recognition and intervention at the time of the truce, and I think that these persons are absolutely entitled to the status of a war veteran, while we are extending the range of beneficiaries. Indeed, if we remember those times, we know that these people are, in fact, in some way, special status, because they came from foreign policy, but then we need to know that this was the Republic Secretariat for Foreign Affairs, that this was not a classic foreign ministry at the time and that the then wild JLA did not essentially choose objectives or recognise international conventions. And now this memory is slightly faded, I just literally remember that some of these foreign diplomats, and all of this in some way smuggled from the airport in Celovac to Ljubljana and other relations, and that in fact, when they accompanied these delegations, they risked a lot. And even with the preparation of such visits, much has been done for international recognition or peace itself, for the implementation of the truce, and in fact, it would have been confused with common sense and unfair for those persons who had acted so consciously at the time not to have been included in the circle of excuses until the status of war veterans was attained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Stannet Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. I also support Article 2 of the amendment under Article 3(3), which was tabled by the parties, not by a complete coalition, but by the SDS, NSI and SLS, for a simple reason, because I am also as a war veteran convinced that rights should not be extended too generously and that on average the rights of a war veteran should be shared. As far as customs are concerned; those who participated in the war of independence have already settled more or less this status and should be individually checked by each individual. I say once again that I am in favour of item 3 and that I am in favour of extending the rights and that I am in favour of those who have actually participated and who have also been exposed in the self-conservation war for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will be like this, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will of course support all these amendments, especially because we think, and I also think that, of course, veteran status cannot be limited by some number and so when this number is filled, it is over. It's like whoever comes first comes first. Those who are too late will lose that status. I said before that, of course, the Slovenian self-sustaining war was specific. Specific from many perspectives, but if we look at what happened at the time in June 1991, we can talk about the beginning of general human resistance, and that is actually what the All-Slovenian uprising is. Most of those who voted in favour of the plebiscite decision in December 1990 to win Slovenia's independence then also proved this by either engaging in the fight against the invaders, the attackers, the Yugoslav Army or wanting to join. Of course, many have worked in the field before. It didn't start when they attacked, but the preparations lasted a long time. The customs officers, of course, looked at the eyes in an organized manner earlier when ammunition was introduced into Slovenia, and there was another matter. Then, in June 1991, there was something else going on in addition to this physical war, in the military sense, and the media war was going on. There was also a lot of pressure, a lot of clean personal decisions, a lot of people putting their lives at stake, as well as their social situation. This applies to other professions, so that I will not be listed here now, and it is certainly important that we recognize to all those who have this will, their power, and their work when it happened, and their threat. That is why, of course, we will support all these amendments in the Liberal Democracy. Of course, the whole law depends on the following amendments. I am surprised, of course, that, in the coalition of this matter, they did not actually unify themselves when I listened to the representative of DeSUS, and I was very interested in how Mr Rouss there, who was concerned about the coalition contract, saw or did not see this matter at all. I don't know exactly how this synecura works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Zagorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. I myself, like my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, will support all three amendments to Article 2 of the Act. I am convinced, particularly if I speak of the second amendment, that the customs officers are indeed the ones who deserve this status, namely, the customs workers who were working at the border crossings at the time, if we know that the first command given to the Aggressor Army was to take the border crossings. So these people were essentially the first and first war situations. Finally, they also represented a kind of communication between Slovenia and its neighbours, without them it may be difficult to talk about Slovenia's independence today. I am sure that even in the customs service today, only those who really wanted good for the Republic of Slovenia and the two-faceds have probably already withdrawn from our country in the 15 years. I am sure that the budget would not suffer great consequences if we included this group of people, and I agree with those who have talked about the fact that we cannot simply limit the status of war veterans with a number and say so, because there is so much money for that. I think they deserve the status of a war veteran all those who were willing to risk their lives to live in a state of independence today, so I will support all three amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you. Member Mogo has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That's a good-bye! These amendments, which are now under consideration, extend the range of beneficiaries of the title of war veteran and all that is involved, including the benefits. I think that when we discuss them, we need to be able to see that we are once so that we can reinvigorate our rights and, secondly, extend our rights. If we only remember a few days ago about asbestos, how ruthlessly we were there to have the state budget of the devil taken, we beat those who are sick, we had no mercy to them, nothing, we cut them out of the law. Today, however, we are opening the door to the multitudes of people throughout the law to an appropriate name for a war veteran and, at the same time, all rights. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that these amendments, which have been tabled, are not such that they do not cause injustices again, but will, of course, extend the circle of participants and, at the same time, with great money, also the state budget. If our duty is to support the labour veterans law on the one hand, this is about those who have worked for 40 years, and we delete at the moment from 20% to 12%, that is, what was given for once a work experience or something like that, and on the other hand, we also open with amendments and extend the circle of these, it seems to me, very reckless. Look, dear colleagues, why don't we take all these people? Surely there are no people in the amendments that have been tabled who have received a military memorial sign for Slovenia. These memorial signs were given to people who took part in individual actions: either in baking events, or in those events, or in three battles, or in four battles. Surely, in these situations, when people were at gunpoint, when they actively cooperated with the territorial defense of that time, when they got these things when they were proven, but they weren't written as members of the territorial defense, we let them go. There's a bunch of people like that. So Schweinzer wrote them in his book, they defended Slovenia, and now that we are discussing this -- and don't mind the expression, let no one be offended -- even some of us, under orders, "workers" give these rights, we have forgotten about these people. There's something else I'd like to say. This independence would not have been so successful if, in addition to territorial defence and police, all people, as one man, hadn't stepped in, and tried to spin this cycle with as few victims as possible in this direction, in order to achieve the goal set by plebiscite. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to tell you that in addition to the ones covered by the law to gain the status of a veteran of war, there are many people who, too, are being released by these amendments, who deserve this status. You know who I'm talking about? I'm talking about the presidents of the executive councils of the assemblies. The presidents of the executive boards were, on the other hand, when this war happened, they were talking to the chiefs of the military, the chiefs of the barracks, and they were told that they had shut down their electricity at the moment, they shut down their water. As a result, they were told that their artillery would wipe out their congregation. In order for this not to happen, we should thank some smart officers at the time. They were worried at the time -- I wasn't the president of the executive board, you don't think, but I speak from experience -- they were worried at the time when some traders wanted to raise prices because there were no stores open when they raised prices to earn more by giving it to the finger. The care was running. People came to them, especially hunters, who wanted to take charge of the army that was here at the time. These were people who accepted all those, including foreign citizens, who burned their cars at border crossings, had neither dinars nor anything, and also demanded a certain amount of compensation. These were the people who coordinated all these things into the congregation, including the chief, who was only one member of the executive board. It seems to me that if we give the law only to the chiefs, we have done these presidents of the executive boards a great deal of injustice. Personally, I would somehow try to give my gratitude to these people on a national scale by giving them an appropriate way, either with a medal, or with any thanks, or with any memorial to the people. At this point, when we are facing the biggest challenges in the European Union, to extend the circle of these people, to invest in these things, once we tell them - now we are judges - after telling the doctors that the belt has to be tightened, after we tell the teachers that the belt has to be tightened, after we tell the culturers that the belt has to be tightened, and to anyone else, I don't think it's the right time to do these things. I think that everyone in the country can be pleased to have participated in the country's thanks in the way I mentioned earlier. In this way to show and here as a defender trade in Parliament, it will be inside and he will not, we must do something - it seems to me, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will not oppose it, but it seems to me that with amendments such as they are, and with a law such as that, this law was written by someone who may not have really participated in the heart of what the 10-day war said. Because of everything I've said, I will abstain from these amendments that are now on the table. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you. The word has magic. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to discuss an amendment involving customs officers among the beneficiaries of war veterans. As far as customs are concerned, we are careful in our group, especially because we know, and we have also heard from others that there were quite a few customs officers who did not act in favour of Slovenia during the war for Slovenia. As a result, a number of concerns have already been raised on the Committee itself, how to include them or even involve them in this. And I think that the solution that we have found then to include all customs officers who carried out operational tasks following decisions and instructions from the Republic Coordination Group is good enough to be accepted among the war veterans' beneficiaries by the union's estimated approximately 240 customs officers. I will also support the amendment tabled by the coalition to recognise the status of a war veteran to those who have also helped maintain contact with the International Monitoring Commission. For the first time because in this case the number of people is very clear is less than 20. Moreover, because I am convinced that these people were at the time in the role or the negotiators or, on many occasions, also in danger of life, and that they bore very much responsibility for the work they were doing. As I mentioned in my speech to the speaker, in New Slovenia we expect that a new law or we wish that a new law would not create new injustices in assigning war veteran status. On the other hand, we realize that it is impossible to cover all those who in any way contributed to our freedom today during the war for Slovenia. Many, many are entitled to the status of a war veteran, and perhaps because of the abundance of those who have the right to do so, they simply do not take this status away because it seems to them that it is a practical inflation of this status.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you. I call on Member Grill to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I would also like to take the lead in the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, namely the amendment concerning these customs workers again. I must say that in such a form as is written here, I have great concerns that this set of beneficiaries should be corrected. Why do I think that? When we received letters from customs workers to the parliamentary group or I think we all received them, I gave myself to many of the participants in the then war for Slovenia to learn how these things actually happened in Slovenia. I received information, as my colleague Capuder had already mentioned before me, that there were also customs workers working against Slovenia, that they even informed Belgrade about the shipments we received from abroad to Slovenia. It means that it would now be inappropriate for all to assign this status to each of us. However, I agree with the fact that the customs have been appointed, but also with the heart of our self-reliance project, that they have also put their lives at stake and that it is right for some to be allowed to do so. That is why such an amendment that we have adopted on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs meets these expectations, I ask. Finally, representatives of the customs labour union, which supported such a dictatorship, were also present on this committee. So I think that in that amendment that we adopted there, this group of people is also captured. Here I would have touched, say, these claims that they were exposed at border crossings customs throughout the war. That's right. But there were a lot of such groups in Slovenia or jobs. Let me just mention the employees at the phone stations. From experience, in New Town, the call center's visa was a whole squad of JLA snipers. The telephone centres were certainly strategic objects that would have been the first to be exposed to the attack in order to make the war for Slovenia go on differently. Then all those employees in telephone stations should also receive the status of a war veteran. Then the broadcasters, we know that one transmitter was even bombed, and they should get it. That is why this set of rights is to be extended in, in my view, in an unthinkable way, we really need to think about it. I myself cannot support this amendment, which was tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, because we have accepted it on the committee of that amendment, in my opinion, sufficiently broad and in this form we will continue to support the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you, you. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. All those debaters who do not know who do not know the law and who have not read it - customs officers are already included in the last indent of Article 2. But that's what I'd say. The war began just with customs disobedience when customs officers refused to respect federal laws and the military stationed at borders, taking up border points. These customs officers, who decided to do so, brought the "carina Slovenia" badge to the left. They were carrying this tablet and they were targets of all these possible snipers, and I don't know what other people who were set up in the bushes, every time, so the army was protecting them. Don't talk nonsense, please! What we wrote in the last item: to be recognised to the management officers of the customs service who carried out operational tasks under certain instructions from the customs administration. Yeah, but where are the operatives who were in the front lines? We let them go! And that's why this amendment! In this amendment, we have stated that a customs officer who has taken up operational tasks under certain instructions from the Republic of Croatia is entitled to this. And that's it. Don't be unfair and smart around here when you're explaining what kind of thing these PTT workers don't have to do with. These are also covered in these points, and so are you covered, all of them. Second. If you look at it, the objectives, principles and main solutions determine eligibility, and it is these workers who are entitled to it. You let them go and we're doing them wrong. This amendment removes this guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. This is what I'm going to do. I'm going to put you in when I draw up the list so far, and I'm going to give my word to my colleague Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I would only warn so much that we are now discussing a text that is the subject of a complementary bill. And here I. Article 2 no longer stands, as Mr Friend stated, because we corrected this text on the working body. Just so that we can understand each other, because there is no longer a question of executives here, and not of others, but of all workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. I'm still giving the word to Ambassador Grill. Ambassador Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u67	Again, thank you for your word. In fact, I just wanted to point out here that on the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, this issue of customs workers has been adequately addressed and everyone in it is covered. That is why I propose that a colleague - because it is not important now whose initiative, but that is where we have resolved the matter and this amendment, which has now been tabled here by the Social Democrats' Group, is unnecessary. That's what we discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you. I'm asking, someone else wants to discuss the three amendments. Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The debate was, I'd say, interesting. First of all, I would like to say that the purpose of the law or one of the aims of the law is to extend the circle, so to report to the amendments that it is extending the circle, means that we do not know the content of the law. Everyone knows who it's flying on. Second. I am surprised that in all this the government representative is not interested in providing an explanation. Now I see him raise his hand and I'll be grateful if he says anything. I remind him, please two answers: for the first time, with regard to customs officers. Whether the formulation, as I know it, excludes only managers and excludes all customs personnel, nevertheless includes tasks directly at the border or not. That it won't be doubtful, because then one is cleared. Secondly, I would like a representative of the government to tell us, Mr State Secretary, what are the reasons why some of the same tasks performed under the authority or instructions of the police or the operational headquarters have the status of cooperation as a veteran of the war for Slovenia, but the tasks performed equally by someone under the command of the territorial defence commanders are not. I'm afraid here, at least I don't understand the criteria, because it's an activity that's been done, not something else. Please let the Minister explain that. I am still convinced that the one and the other amendments we have made in this regard are justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you. And there's a government representative on the list that's been reported before your speech. Mr. Stroms, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Probably, these amendments also raise some questions, which are more a matter of understanding than content. That's why I'm going to try to explain things this way. With regard to the amendment under point 1, where the extension of this command aspect to the Territorial Defence Command is concerned, I must say that, at that time, in 1991, civil defence, with all these tasks, was judged as an internal affairs department. It was not until 1994 that these tasks were transferred to the Ministry of Defence. At that time, the exact distribution of barricades, the exact distribution of those who kept the weapons that helped supply and were civilians, was said to be outside the interference of territorial defence, special interference, led or landed on this service, which served as a resort to internal affairs. Because these issues will now arise for exact evidentiary procedures, where we need to identify a command line to insist on the proposal as stated, and the government therefore rejects or does not support this amendment. With regard to customs officials, the biggest issue that has arisen has already been resolved on the home committee. Now the word left is a management worker, who was previously written down, and now refers to this provision to all customs officers who carried out the operational task at the time of the thunderstorm. Even those who were reassigned to customs, but not to everything, because at the time there was a sharp differentiation between customs officers and about 1,500 workers, as far as the customs service was then assigned to operational tasks, only a good quarter was actually assigned to the Slovenian authorities and in fact they were quite at risk and for them. However, if it were said that, like the amendment here says, everyone who was at the customs office at the time would be given the status of a veteran, but there would be a lot of unpleasant situations after our behavior. With regard to the amendment concerning representatives of the executive board - there is no problem and the government supports it, this is point 3. At the amendment in Article 9, all I can say is this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u72	Comrade Stroms, we have not yet opened the debate on Article 9. I ask you to join this debate later or when we will involve the debate at all, given that so far no question has been raised under the heading of this Article since it has not yet come to order. Have you completed your response to the three amendments to Article 2? I understand your silence as yes. Anyone else want to discuss three articles or one of the amendments? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate on Article 2. Now we are going to the debate or I am putting Article 9 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia into the debate. Who wants a word? My friend Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will support the LDS amendment to delete section 9 of these amendments or amendments to the law. This article refers to the date on which the implementing regulation referred to in Article 1, paragraph 5, is implemented, which means that the Minister will lay down rules or criteria for how and how much funding is to be financed, so that the law on the financing of the Union of National Liberation Unions of Slovenia ceases to apply. This certainly means that the trend that started with this government's performance will continue in the future. This is a reduction in funding for the NOB Association of Fighters, which is actually financed under a specific law and this special law is supposed to actually neutralize or circumvent this amendment. I am sure that this trend will move forward, that fighters or fighters will be pushed away, as was the case days ago with a journalist who asked the question. So it's like some skydigare, which is an integral part of this society, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u74	Comrade Kontic, I beg you to stick to the content of the amendment or article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u75	Of course I'm holding on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u76	You know the event wasn't connected to it, and if you continue to do so, I will be forced to take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u77	Well, as Vice President, of course you can do this, but I warn you that the matter is serious and that everyone else can experience the same fate. When I talk about the financing of the Association of Fighters Associations of NOB Slovenia, let me say that agreeing to be somehow then financed according to the number of members who have status is, of course, the desire that after a few years this matter ceases. But I tell you that those younger ones who have participated in the war for Slovenia will eventually become older and will face similar fates. So this connection is about to be followed by a similar fate. In a few years, will the state simply forget all these events, both those of the NOB and those of the war on Slovenia? Many times it has been said or reported that veterans of war for Slovenia receive insufficient funds for their operations. I agree with that assessment. And I have not heard the opposite assessments within the Association of Fighters and Participants of NOB Slovenia. But we have one sum, and this sum that's set, we're going to divide by a new one. We'll figure out a new key. So, of course, this means that veterans of war for Slovenia will get more, but at the expense of one another's association. And I think it would be right for this purpose to devote a little more resources. This year, which is sort of a round anniversary, is 15 years old since 1991, and it would be wise for this veteran association or veteran association to get a little more money for its operation because, as far as I know, they will actively participate in marking these events or recalling these important events. So, in view of the experience I have and are justified, I certainly support the deletion of this Article, I support the preservation of funding for those or associations that have contributed significantly to the fact that we are living today in the country we are living in.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you. I give the floor to Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We will also support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party and allow me to give a very brief explanation why. What has been corrected on the labour market, including on the proposal of the legal and legislative service, is actually sand in the eyes. Sand in my eyes, which he last mentioned before me when he read the fifth paragraph of Article 1, which speaks of more precise criteria for financing the activities of the society or association of war veterans being prescribed by the Minister responsible for war veterans. Look, the funds in the budget are on this item shrinking. You've cleavaged them hard, Your Honor. And what worries me more than just cutting down or reducing financial resources for this society is the destruction of the national liberation fight. And I'm sorry, but the policy run by Minister Petty Officer is going this way. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party we cannot agree to such work and we will support the amendment. And I'd like to point out one more thing, and I hope you're aware of it. All those who support and also those who do not support this amendment are not financial consequences that would be worse than the moral and ethical consequences of such doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u81	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I must say that it is unreasonable and incomprehensible to repeal the law on the financing of the Union of National Liberation Warriors Associations, which we have already warned Members of Parliament, particularly members of the LDS and SD, and the SNS at the meeting of the home working body. I'll say it again. The fact that we are Slovenians today is not only the result of our own self-sustaining war, but it is the result of a long process that takes place from there, from, say, the first half of the 19th century forward through different periods, under different brands, with different names, but always in terms of freedom of thought and freedom. The end of the 19th century also brought the desire for independence again. And of course then the anti-fascist fight in Primorska, from 1919, 1920, 1921, 1922 forward and all the way to World War II. The people who are now involved in the associations of the fighters in impossible situations in very unloved situations risked their lives and managed to preserve the identity of the Slovenian nation and the Slovenian consciousness. This matter then continued until the 1980 ’ s because she again experienced a new culmination. It is not only the warnings given by the legislature that the proposed termination of the law on the financing of the National Liberation War Association is not in line with the implementation and application of the financing of associations or associations of war veterans under this amendment of the law, but that such a decision may have other consequences. The fact is that the content of the Law on the Financing of the Association of Fighters and the provisions of Article 1 of the novel do not coincide, meaning that the novelty allows for the narrowing of the financing of this activity, with which the legislator in 1990 provided that such social importance is such that the State must provide funds for their implementation. It will, if adopted, indirectly allow the Minister to abolish the financing of certain activities carried out so far. And let's see, there are 63 regional associations with registered status of society operating in 875 local organisations in the Union of Fighters and National Liberation Fighters of Slovenia in 70 committees of units and services of national liberation war. There are 54,000 members of war veterans in these organizations, 1941-1945, and around 27,000 victims of war violence who do not have their own organisation and who do not establish or have their own society or special association, about 20,000. Let's see who they are: campers, kidnapped children, prisoners, internees, refugees. Therefore, the union of associations of fighters would be deprived if only the number of war veterans - this is not just a veteran organisation - were it to be eliminated more than 20,000 victims of war violence, who were relatively late in recognition. It should be known that even campers, children abducted and other victims of war violence were not always here in Slovenia. In international relations, however, there are, say, camp committees. Today, only exiles and mobilizers have their own organization in the German army. If we delete this Article, we would ensure that we would not be neglected members of those groups of victims of war violence who have a union of fighters as their only organisation at national level. That's what this is about. It wasn't thought of because she didn't want to think about it. The 2005 budget and 2006 and 2007 budgets have already reduced funding for activities. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, within the framework of the sub-programme of the state budget to finance the programmes of veteran organisations, has already reduced the funding of the NOV Association of Fighters by 72 million 376.000 tolars. However, the 2006 and 2007 budgets did not increase the indices for such a reduced item. The fear of the members of the Union of Fighters, and our reminder of all this, can be entirely justified. The Special Protection of the Fighters of NOB is ensured by the constitutional law for the implementation of the fundamental Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia, so the Ombudsman has assured us, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have again tabled an amendment repealing the law on the financing of the Union of National Liberation Fighters of Slovenia - that this would not happen to remain, but in some ways, dignified and dignified to all those who have contributed to Slovenia's independence and to preserve what we so often strive for at the verbal level: the preservation of Slovenia, the spread of Slovenia, the protection of Slovenia. After all, they have the credit for it. This will support the amendment of the law if this Article 9 is deleted. But once again, we are really interested in why, at the coalition level, these matters were not a domain; why, in fact, DeSUS did not protect many of its constituents and members at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Miran Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The content of Article 9 is, in the opinion of my colleagues and colleagues in the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and my own invention. In fact, there is no such need. We have a law on military veterans. The War Veterans Act provides for the possibility of an individual society, including a veteran society, gaining the status of public interest, provides for a special contract to be concluded with this company, and all matters are regulated. Without any change, things are arranged and intervention into existing relations is only the ideological desire of the Minister and perhaps the work of the government, which wants to make a substantive change. I don't know what the goal would be, or what the objective is, which I think is the Government and Minister Drobnič unwarrantedly defends. Firstly, the big question is - and this has been pointed out by the legislature - whether this does not interfere with the constitutional law. The government should probably consider that and give an answer to that question. I think it's interfering because the content of the constitutional law is unquestionably clear in this part. The second thing to say is whether this interferes with the criteria applicable to the determination of the status of society. And in this part, it is an essential intervention, as it is known that the activities and objectives of the Union of Fighters are much broader than the interest itself in certain housing issues, health care and similar to those of the second world war and war veterans. And it is known that due to the age of war veterans there will be an increasing number of members of the Union of National Liberation Fighters. Therefore, to claim that rights are recognised only on the basis of the status of a veteran, but not on the basis of membership, it is a clear purpose - it is tried to hide it, but everyone can understand it - to reduce the importance of this organisation, and in particular to reduce the other functions that this organisation has. And these other functions, ladies and gentlemen, as well as Mr. Minister knows, are, among other things: to cultivate and consolidate the patriotic antifascist anti-fascist traditions of the Slovenian people, to care for the preservation and mediation of the historical truth of the national liberation fight, to promote the concerted operation of the associations of fighters and participants of the NOB and other members - Mr. Gulič spoke about who the collective other members are - to care for the gathering of monuments, memorials and graves of the NOB at home and abroad, and so on. In short, these are broader substantive tasks that are not possible, except from ideological inclinations, to bind to the number of veterans, and to say, when there are 27,000 more, it is justified to finance them when there are under 15,000 and they have only half or a third of these funds. And the last thing I would like to say is that, given the funding system, it is highly doubtful whether this objective is also justified in terms of freedom of association. Gentlemen of the government say why it is free to unite for what purpose and for what purpose it is not. To what end does freedom of association, including for purposes such as those written here - the consolidation of patriotism and anti-fascist extradition - my membership has an equal share in this association as a veteran's share in these objectives, and when my membership in this association has no value, because my desire to ensure patriotism and anti-fascist extradition is no longer recognized by this government as an activity of special importance. I think this proposal is unacceptable, and I expect that the coalition will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. So the bill is aimed at ensuring that all veterans of war have the same status, that the same criteria are laid down and that no distinction is maintained between veterans, both those of war for Slovenia, and those who were veterans of World War II. This must be our only true criterion, non-discrimination, even in the light of international documents. And in this sense, of course, the government supports such proposals. Look, there's more than one organization involved in funding. Those who have the status of a fighter may also have the status of a war invalid and may even be involved in several organisations financed from the budget so that they have more opportunities. At the same time, I stress that the fighters and those who participated in World War II are still slightly less than 40,000, although 61 years have passed since World War II, maintaining all rights intact, namely pensions, allowances, allowances and services, invalidity, recognition and so on. In short, we don't touch these. Of course, the proposal contains a criterion of numbering. This is one of the criteria of war veterans for Slovenia, about 36,000, veterans from World War II are less. The means of operation of both organisations are approximately the same. I even think there is less funding in the budget for veteran wars for Slovenia. However, in some veteran organisations, we find it difficult to define exactly how society is treated, and many young people in II are involved in these societies. World War II did not participate, but societies do keep them in their records. Let me get this straight. The intention of this proposal is to lay down indisputable criteria for financing, repealing or terminating the law on the financing of the association of fighters, and does not change the terms of the financing, because even if you read this law well, this law does not refer to criteria, nor to the level of the funds, nor to anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. Member Breda Pecan has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Here, too, I would like to express my own views and views on this amendment. Already in the introduction, Mr Minister explained what this law is intended for, and by this logic it is certainly not intended to regulate the status of associations or associations of war veterans, but rather to regulate individuals, it is said, to lay down the conditions for determining the status of a war veteran, and secondly, to lay down the rights of a war veteran who has gained status. This law is certainly not intended to regulate or lay down criteria for the allocation of funds for military veterans' associations, whether they are veterans of war II. World War II or 1991 war veterans. This would mean to me that, as long as the Minister and this government want to regulate the conditions for integration, to bring together the Union of Associations of Fighters and Participants of the National Liberation Fight and the War Veterans, the Wars for the Independent Slovenia, it should be regulated in that law, Article 9, which our amendment or the amendment of the Club of Liberal Democracy seeks to regulate. I propose, Mr Minister, that you attach the LDS amendment to support the deletion of this article and that in the law on the financing of the union of fighters and members of the national liberation fight, you also amend this law and extend this law to war veteran wars for Slovenia alone. I think that would be the right way. It would probably be right because there are still some living tigers, given that the Prime Minister explicitly supports and specifically advocates the status of the TIGR company, to include this society or this association in the law on the financing of participants in the national liberation fight. It is said that it extends it and that it is a special status, because it is not a common society, not one, not another, not a third, these are societies that connect people with specific goals and purposes. One of these goals is, I will now talk about the association of fighters and members of the national liberation struggle, that this association also cares about the preservation of traditions by also providing monuments of national liberation to regulate them, to visit them, etc. The same will certainly happen with the markings of the war on Slovenia, and the same is true with the features financed by the country of the fight against Italian fascism and the merger of Slovenians with then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but today their dreams have been realized, at least in most, and it is a union with Slovenia. So, I think, Mr. Secretary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u88	Time. Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u89	That the only way to do that, I see, Mr. Vice President, is to remove this article. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you. Member of the Parliament of the Council shall be represented in the statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u91	Have a nice hello to you all. Thank you for your word. When we discussed the budget before and even later, the Minister asked our explicit question why he was lowering the funds for the memory and for bringing those who had participated in the national liberation struggle for such associations in short time, when we wondered why less money for these people was being paid, the Minister, I summed it up, said that also because these people are getting smaller and smaller because they are dying slowly and they do not need that much money anymore. Of course, such a question and such an answer can be questionable. I believe that these resources have been reduced in the budget because these people are currently a thorn in the heel. The memory of them is not a priority and should slowly disappear, in fact, this is the answer to interference with budgetary resources. This response may also be a response to this proposal, which we are now facing when the financing of the union of fighters, or their status, is also to be abolished through law. It's a memory killing, but the memory doesn't die the way those who fought for us to be free today and to be free on our own earth die. This memory can't be killed that way. Of course, the minister has just said that this will not happen and that if the law is resolved as proposed, then societies will still be financed. Yes, but in the way that the Prime Minister or the Minister who will sit in this ministry will be pawned by him through a rule that will, of course, reflect his ideological and other priorities. What are the priorities of this government for the visa of history and its memory, it is clear. Let us just look at the Museum of Recent History programme, where exhibition, publicist and other activities are directed at just one history. Or look at the proposals of other legislation. In short, if time is delaying, it does not mean that the memory of that time must be extended. After all, these societies care about awakening and exploring the past in other ways, not only in the way of organizing various celebrations. They are engaged in a publicist, exhibition, social and other activity, which is very rich and which means a certain contribution to research and archiving the past. In short, do not allow the Minister to attempt to interpret the past in such ways. The past is one thing to respect, not to kill. I will support the amendment that we have proposed because it is only in this way that we can avoid that every single authority will not set its own criteria and its own history with its own rules. Sorry - seeing your own history.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you. The facts are clear: Article 9 of the proposed amendment to the law, which we are talking about today, is clear and also provides for Article 1 to be repealed, or provides for the termination of the law on the financing of the union of fighters. However, the second fact that the proposed termination of the law on the financing of the association of national liberation fighters of Slovenia, on the one hand, provides for the provision of funds to finance the operation of the association in fully specific areas, which are not fully covered by the criteria for the financing of Article 1 of the proposed novel, on the other hand not only to the budget but also to the budgets of other social political communities. And the third fact that the law on the financing of a union of national liberation fighters has a basis in the constitutional law. Therefore, it was not a free recommendation, such as the legal and legislative service, that an amendment should be tabled free of charge, if we look only from a legal point of view, that is the constitutional principle enshrined in the constitutional law, in the basic Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. And just like that, even if we rule out moral and ethical principles, which of course we all absolutely support, we cannot simply abolish Article 9. Rather, it is not simply a matter of repealing the law on the financing of associations of fighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you. And the last on the list of discussers is a colleague of Stana Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you. It was a memorial talk. I don't think he remembers buying anything like he can't buy patriotism. However, it is right that certain criteria are among veteran organisations and that they are financed on certain criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you. Mag. Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Article 18 of the Charter provides for the protection of the rights of fighters - fighters, not organisations - and at least to the extent guaranteed by the rules of the day. I am convinced that none of the still living fighters will be deprived of their rights as a fighter acquired under the laws or laws of war veterans. But I stopped by about something else. However, the rights and duties of a society or organisation must be the same or comparable. It is not possible for a society or organisation to have more rights than other comparable organisations. Therefore, I cannot support this amendment, even because the financing of organisations or the financing of organisations of war veterans will be regulated in accordance with Article 1 of this Act. And if it is arranged in the way it is written there, then it is only necessary to complete the financing under a special law from the former Yugoslavia which regulated the financing of the union of fighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which we will decide in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda, or at 20.40 a.m. at the latest. This concludes this agenda item. Before we move on to the 19th item of the agenda, I leave the meeting to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u99	We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the composition of the Republic of Slovenia for succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for succession, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The government representative shall have 10 minutes to explain further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u100	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will briefly present the law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for Heritage. There are two main reasons for the adoption of this law. The current law on the transformation of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the success and establishment of the public successor agency of the Republic of Slovenia experienced a number of changes at the time of adoption in the National Assembly, making it unconsistent, and in fact this transformation of the current Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the success of the public agency was impossible. With this law, the government proposes to maintain the fund as a legal form. The Fund is expected to operate in accordance with the provisions of the Public Funds Act, in short, to be set up as a public fund for the purpose set out in this Act. Therefore, the existing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success will be transformed into a Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Succession of the Public Fund. The law will thus determine or regulate the solutions which the proposer considers to be legal matter, namely, the provisions concerning the founder, the purpose, the bodies of the fund and their powers, the assets, the functions of the fund, the application of the provisions of the GCC and the exception, transitional and final provisions. The other issues will be dealt with in detail in the Act of Establishment, which will be adopted by the Government within 15 days of the entry into force of this Act. As a second important reason for the adoption of this law, the Constitutional Court's constitutional decision of 17.3.2005, which established the constitutional non-compliance of certain provisions of this Act. We believe that this law is an end to this. Finally, I would add that the current legislation does not regulate the status of the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia and that we are also correcting this deficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you, Mag. Lavrich, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 17th session, on 23.2.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia to be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption, proposing that the law submitted should be considered and adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was forwarded to the Committee. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. The Ministry has cooperated with the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession. In addition, the explanation of the legislative and legal service, her representative highlighted in particular the issues relating to the regulation of supervision of the operations and work of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the succession and prudent management of the intended assets of that public fund, the status of the High Representative and the application of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the first question, it was particularly pointed out that the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in carrying out such supervision has been played so far. With regard to the High Representative, the proposed law provides for the appointment and discharge of the Government and is directly responsible to the Government. The discussion focused on Article 9, which drew attention to the issue of job reporting, the operation of the reform fund to the National Assembly and, in this context, to the necessary maintenance of this type of control. It has also been pointed out that there has been an increase in the number of laws that in fact abolish the supervision of the National Assembly and transfer this issue to the power of the Government. An amendment was therefore tabled in the debate to supplement the provision of Article 9, paragraph 1, which defines the tasks of the Supervisory Board as the supervisory authority of the Fund by a new subparagraph, according to which the Supervisory Board on the work and operations of the Fund would report annually to the National Assembly. The Committee adopted and adopted this proposal as its amendment to this Article, which is an integral part of this report. After that, the government representative said that this report on the work and operation of the fund to be forwarded to the National Assembly on the basis of the amendment adopted would only refer to the tasks, identification and availability of the dedicated assets of the Fund. Then there was a debate on how to finance this public fund. According to the provisions of the service, the law on public funds is obliged to separate assets from the means of work which the founder is normally obliged to provide. Then it was a question of revising the report, where the government suggested that due to the prudence and fewer data, this revision was not mandatory and could, of course, be determined by the Supervisory Board at any time. The question was raised as to how this law, or this amendment, currently solves 110 judicial and 3 enforcement proceedings pending before the courts in the Republic of Slovenia, which are terminated by this law, was again given this opinion. The Committee then adopted amendments that complemented the proposal of the law and, on the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, prepared the text of the amended law, which of course included the amendments adopted. We suggest that this law be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We will support the bill in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group. It comes from the obligation of the Constitutional Court to decide, but it will be clear from our own questions and debate that we are of course not sure that it solves all the issues that are very important to the content of the legacy in the area of financial rights and obligations from the former country. First, we support the proposal for a law because the Constitutional Court has warned us that the text of the law should be drafted in accordance with the constitutional standard, and if we did not adopt the new text, it could happen that effective possible enforcement would be made on the basis of decisions already taken in relation to nutritional applications or that those where procedures continued after the expiry of the old law would not be stopped again. This would also make Slovenia a liability at the formal legal level, and this would certainly be to the detriment of our country, so it is right to adopt the law in this respect. Secondly, the government warns and we believe that the existing fund needs to be reformed for a formal reason, and we support this decision. Third. We were, together with the Slovenian National Party, proposing an amendment, whereby the National Assembly should also adopt a report on the operation of the Fund, not just the government. I think this is absolutely necessary for two reasons; for the first time, since there have been several proposals in recent times that have led to a national assembly, I cannot find a better term, restrict it, express it, no longer have competence to assess and control many institutions that decide on important issues in the country and this control is maintained more or less within the government. We do not think that this is good and that is why we have made this comment; and the second, which may be, in the case of this fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the same or even more important, is the fact that this fund is to be made available, we are counting, with an important part of the assets. And if he has an important part of the property and decides on it, it is not possible for the government to be the only one to judge what decisions it takes to dispose of the property, but you know that it is the property that is created as the right of our country on the basis of the legacy of the former or of the former Yugoslavia on the basis of an agreement we have signed. Four. It can be formally concluded that the law will not have direct financial implications. Fifth, where we have questions, is that, or the adoption of a law will have no other consequences. Because I think it will be absolutely necessary soon - we don't know how, we don't want to be smart and we don't want to tell the government that it will be necessary to assess, as soon as possible, whether the situation in our country rightly believes that we are not obliged to settle any obligations from our former nutritional roles, and at the same time in some other countries and theirs, our former Ljubljana Bank Committees feel that they have the right and therefore they are not willing to negotiate an inheritance until this issue of nutrients is settled, or this situation - now takes about 15 years or less - we can endure indefinitely. And whether such a situation can mean that there are no consequences, for the consequences of some judicial decisions will be seen in the end. What are the possible decisions for the situation of our economy in these countries, we are already feeling today. Therefore, we do not accept that the law will have any other consequences, and we believe that, sooner or later, a serious consideration of how to settle these issues in favour of Slovenia should be taken by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, representatives of the government, Members of Parliament and Members. The New Slovenia Group-Christian People's Party supports the adoption of the proposed law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession. We also support the urgent procedure, because it is only in this way that we can prevent great material damage that could have occurred for the Ljubljana Bank and the New Ljubljana Bank as well as for the state of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court Decision 288/04 provides that the Act on the conversion of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is for the success and establishment of a public successor agency in breach of the Constitution because it does not provide for further judicial and enforcement procedures which have been suspended or postponed under the law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success. Following a decision by the Constitutional Court, non-compliance should be lifted by 31.12.2005, otherwise there is a risk that more than 110 fair and enforcement proceedings can be resumed on a proposal from the parties. On the same basis, proceedings before the European Court of Strasbourg initiated by Croatian savers against the country of Slovenia may also be continued. The bill allows for the temporary suspension of all proceedings before the courts and in some way forces all successor countries to first agree on the basis of the Vienna Agreement in negotiations that could or could already be held under the auspices of the Bank for International Settlements. These negotiations have not yet started solely because of Croatia, which, despite the signatures and the ratified agreement, is persistently rejecting the negotiations. The question remains open when these interruptions of justice proceedings can at all be continued and whether it is acceptable from a legal point of view that these deadlines are nearly impossible to be defined on time. In our view, the continuation of these procedures, if any, depends, above all, on the will of the Croatian State to accede to the negotiations under the Vienna Agreement. This will certainly make the most of the faster solution for Croatian and other foreign currency savers throughout the territory of the former country. The new law also regulates the powers and tasks of the High Representative of our country in the negotiations on succession. It is appointed and resolved by the government, and it prepares discussions and negotiations on the basis of the starting points prepared by the government. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the adoption of the proposed law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession. We also believe that the government should do everything possible to reach negotiations on the basis of the Vienna Agreement because of economic and political interests as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is right that today we have before us a proposal for a law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for the Heritage, because we were in a state of lawlessness. The current law on transformation and the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the success and establishment of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession has repealed the preliminary law on the Fund for Succession. So this one was invalid. The current law on transformation has also become invalid, and, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, it is in fact unconstitutional. Thus is the law before us that will fill this legal void. The law is correctly written and provides a comprehensive solution to, I hope, the continued failure of the Constitutional Court to determine the shortcomings, as well as for further work. In the Slovenian National Party, two points were disputed, namely Article 9, for which we have also proposed on the home labour body, I think this was Article 9. We wanted to report once a year to the National Assembly. This amendment, which was originally summarized by the mother's working body, is before you today as an independent amendment of the four coalition parties and we will support it because of the legislative and legal services' comments. However, Article 23 was a key issue for the Slovenian National Party. What is it, exactly? The Constitutional Court has found that the proceedings have stopped and that they do not continue to have to do something about them. In fact, the original form of Article 23, despite the formal adoption of the law, did not provide for anything. He still stipulated that the procedures were stopped, which means nothing happened. It is true that he was then also on the committee, also on the working body of the 23rd Article, and he corrected it slightly more clearly on why the proceedings would stop and when they would continue. In fact, this has not changed anything in substance, since the decision is not only in the content of this law but elsewhere. However, we hope that we will be the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has given us a deadline that has already expired to move things. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a law, in particular and only because we end the legal void.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Before us is the law which provides for the transformation of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession into the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession, this is a public fund, and its organs and tasks. The Succession Fund of the Republic of Slovenia Act provides that proceedings before the courts in the Republic of Slovenia concerning foreign exchange deposits and the business bank or any of its subsidiaries in any of the successor countries of the former SFRJ shall be terminated until the issue of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia or the National Bank of Yugoslavia is resolved. The main reason for the preparation of the law on the succession of the Republic of Slovenia and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia to succeed is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which found that the law on the conversion of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the success and establishment of the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the succession with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia failed to establish when the judicial and enforcement proceedings that have been suspended or postponed under the law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Success will continue. If the unconstitutionality found is not eliminated within the time limit laid down by the Constitutional Court, all suspended or suspended proceedings and judicial proceedings on a proposal from the parties may be continued. Since the deadline for the elimination of the alleged non-compliance has already expired, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. The current Fund of the Republic of Slovenia shall carry out the tasks arising from an agreement on succession issues in coordination with individual national authorities and institutions. This law proposes the transformation of the existing fund into a successor fund of the Republic, a public fund. As his legal successor, he will take over all the assets, rights and obligations of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for its success. It will act as a public financial fund established to implement an agreement on succession issues and in this regard enforce the claims and settlement of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of dividing property, rights and obligations of the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia. Since the status of the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia as a successor is not regulated in the current legislation, the law will also regulate his rights and obligations or his status. Articles 2, 9, and 23 were the highest consideration of the domestic labour force of this law. On the basis of the findings of the Legal Service, we propose an amendment amending Article 9 by transferring the last indent of paragraph 1 to a new fourth point of the same Article to the mandatory annual reporting of the National Assembly. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the law adequately resolves the Constitutional Court's decision and protects the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the succession process and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, this is the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. Who wants a word? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 25th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. POINT OF THE DAY - THIRD DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE UNIVERSE AT THE PRIORITY OF LEVEL CREDITS FOR THE FINANCING OF THE EXTENSION AND ADVISION OF SPACE CONDITIONS. The draft law was prepared by the assembly services for the third reading. I give the text to the representative of the bill's proponents to the group, Members with the first signed Tinker Bell for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u112	Dear colleague, esteemed colleagues and everyone else present! Let me introductoryly express the satisfaction I share with the other proponents in the united support of this law in the National Assembly. Without a vote, an amendment was also adopted, increasing the guarantee from a billion, 500 million to a billion, 932 million tolars. I am also personally pleased that this law has not been given such misleading debates as, for example, the guarantee law for Slovenian motorways and that it does not involve an impossible and distorted comparison of how much we owe to everyone between us because of the guarantee we give to the university. For we all know that loans will be returned in both cases, once through toll payments, and in another case through tuition and other university revenues. The main purpose of the law is therefore to encourage and enable as quickly as possible the autonomous technological development of individual members of the university, namely the Faculty of Humanities Studies Koper, the Faculty of Management Koper, the Faculty of Education Koper, tourism, higher education for tourism Portorož, the Higher School of Health Izola, the Scientific and Research Centre Koper, the Maritime Institute for Natural and Technical Sciences Koper and student homes. The University of Primorska is not only important because of its border position and the development of programmes in this sensitive area, as individual programmes are already being implemented outside this area. It is particularly important because it introduces important competition in the field of education programmes with its activity and new programmes and links with the local environment, especially with those most in need of new staff. At the second reading of the law, I mentioned that it would be right that the guarantee for the University of Primorska would have been regulated already in a law which granted a guarantee to the University of Ljubljana of 5 billion 250 million, to the University of Maribor of 750 million and to the student organisation of Slovenia, which was adopted three years ago, in August 2003, six months after the State Assembly set up the University of Primorska on 29 January 2003. Without a doubt, the University of Primorsk could develop even faster in such a case, and over the past three years it could have provided adequate spatial conditions for all its members, so that the savings on rentals for which the University currently devotes almost 80 million tolls per year would not be mentioned. Notwithstanding this fact, and despite the fact that the University of Primorsk, as a third, was established as the youngest public university of all these years in a worse position than its older sister, i.e. the rest of the State University, with the expenditure of support from local communities, which have transferred a number of facilities free of charge to it for the purpose of carrying out its activities, as well as with the support of the economy, it has achieved impressive results with its members over the past years. Last but not least, the entry points for the first year of the school year 2006/2007 show this as they are 890 in the regular study and 650 in the emergency, i.e. 1,540 places of entry. This is an undeniablely important achievement for the youngest university. The adoption of the guarantee law will certainly further accelerate its development, as it will provide in particular the conditions for the completion of the already-initiated investment of the reconstruction of the army and forestery in Koper, and no less important is the facility which will be built in Portorož for the purposes of tourism, student campus and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The general objective of the proposed law is to provide as quickly as possible an additional financial resource for the implementation of the planned investments of the University of Primorska, which in the short term does not burden the budget, as it is obtained from private resources, and in the recovery of the resources acquired, due to the immediate development effects, is also expected in the law of those own activities of the University in Primorska, which will allow for the autonomous operation and recovery of funds. We have listened to the needs of the University of Primorska through the law, and we have also followed the support adopted by its development efforts by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology at its meeting in Koper last May. In view of the support that has been given so far, of course, we expect that you will also support the law in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chernach. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Since nothing has changed since the second reading to this day, I will briefly repeat our position once again. Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party will support the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. We justify our support with the following. As has already been said, the University of the Sea fell out when the guarantees for the University of Maribor and Ljubljana were distributed so that we believe that this is now arranged. The volume of the guarantee itself is a billion 932 million according to our needs, so we fully support, and the conditions for drawing the guarantee are the same or the same as those of the other universities. I would like to point out only that part; in the second reading, many comments were made mainly on the topic of the establishment of new universities. Our position is, and I think, similar to that of the government and the reform programme, this implies that in Slovenia we need more universities, more smaller universities that will be able to launch regional development in smaller environments. We believe that the university is one of those things that will significantly help to make more coherent regional development happen faster. This is how we fully support this, and at the same time we believe that this will solve quite a few problems, which are very large today, from student beds to scholarships and similar things. All those who will study and return to experience daily in this local environment will later seek employment and, I am sure, contribute to more coherent regional development. We fully support these views, so as the next candidate for the establishment of the University of Novo Gorica, we will also support them. Once again, let me say that we support the request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law providing for guarantees of the State to rent a loan from the University of the Sea to build the necessary premises for the work and functioning of the University of the Sea. However, we expect that the Maritime University will, through its work and operation, enable sufficient revenue generation, as well as the resources provided by the State itself during its operations, to meet the conditions that it will also be able to service the repayment of the loans it rents for the necessary construction. I think that through this proposal of the loan guarantee law, we have also made it possible for the youngest and, at the moment, the smallest universities in Slovenia to acquire the necessary spaces for the work and functioning of all areas where they educate students in Primorska, and thus to align the conditions of the youngest university to join the cycle of the already existing Maribor and Ljubljana universities, which in 2004 were provided with the necessary resources to build or operate their premises. As it is said, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are pleased with this law. I am also pleased that in the second reading, an amendment was adopted, originally expressed by the proponents of the proposed amount of guarantees amounting to one billion and a half per cent to what the university's representatives expressed as necessary at the very stage of the preparation of the financial plan, and that the amendment had in fact been accepted to give this guarantee at the level of a billion 932 million. Once again, Members of the Group will adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will also present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. [[You almost missed me, President.]] . Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! This law is commended in some way to the proposer, and it is imperative that we correct this injustice, which has been carried on from the previous government to this day and that we align the conditions for administrative and technical action to all three universities in the same way. On 29 January 2003, we also set up a coastal university and until now we have not provided adequate resources, which is certainly the case with this law. As has already been said, we will be happy to support this law in the Slovenian National Party as well. I hope that the university will also be fully alive in the coming years. In doing so, we would also like to point out that there is a 100% expressed desire for this event to take place as soon as possible in the Maritime Members' Club, when I personally led it. And of course it may be a little late, but if the purpose is good, it's never too late. I hope that a sufficient amount of money will, in fact, be the real functioning of this university in Primorska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mrs Breda Pečan, would you like to present the position of the Socialist Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Social Democrats' Group notes with great satisfaction that in its third reading, the proposed law on the guarantee of credits for the University of Primorsk also included an amendment that we have tabled to increase funds, so that the University of Primorsk will finally be able to start with the accelerated development of the infrastructure it urgently needs for its full operation. The fact is that the University of Primorska, even if we do not want to highlight any specific nationalist claims, nevertheless represents an important advocate of the Slovene language on our western border and that, together with the universities in Nova Gorica and with the individual departments of the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor, in Kras and in Piran, it forms a very important segment of university education, which virtually does not meet the essential material conditions in any of these parts of the college, higher vocational and higher schools. There's no room for students. She doesn't have a real library, and neither does any of the colleges. Not to mention that almost confirmed study programmes of a natural course, which should also be located in Slovenia, which have the necessary land at their disposal, some have even been municipally equipped, so that the municipalities have very much supported the material development of the university. All further steps, from the production of project documentation to the construction of individual colleges, libraries and student homes, are urgently in need of financial resources. That is why the Social Democrats' Group actually welcomes this law, which we are aware of, is a very bad commitment to the university itself, however. I believe that, given that the country is a very important project, we can count on the possibility of raising the necessary funds to cover the annuity by providing from year to year by providing the means of construction. I believe that Primorska will finally acquire a university institution, a university institution that will also link the province or the country with knowledge, and Ilirska Bistrica to the western border and the sea, which will in many ways not only be equivalent, but also, after innovation, after dynamism, exceed the neighbouring Furlanija-Julija Krajina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. I will only invite those Members and Members from the list present. Mr. Lucky Friend. Are you going to talk? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! As has already been said, this law is needed and may be adopted in a somewhat late period of time. I think it should be pointed out that if we were to be truly honest, this law should already be adopted, because just establishing a university and letting it live in a space is not appropriate. But it's not an insult to this government, maybe the previous one, because we know when this university in Primorska was founded. Of course, I have also warned myself in my own initiative and in the question that this must happen. As has already been said, the Maritime Members' Club has also warned of this. And today we are removing part of the injustice that has been done to the University of the Sea. We are putting it in the same position as the other two universities, because this will ensure the same material and technical and administrative conditions for the University of Primorska. I am pleased that, in fact, this proposal is expected to be adopted by a large majority, and I hope that the realisation or the possibility of hiring credits for this university will come as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u124	If I am allowed, even though I know that it is not very welcome in the National Assembly that individual Members and Members speak also on behalf of the local community from which they come, I would say that for Isolo this project of building university infrastructure in Slovenia, in Kras, and I hope that, sooner or later in Goriška, it is very important, especially for us in Isola, where we have carried this project to the University of Primorsk, in the past through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but now directly, one building dedicated to the language programme. We have already adopted a decision on the transfer of 10,000 square metres of building land, which will likely be increased to a total of 30,000 square metres, so that this campus will be able to cover one Faculty of Science with three university programmes, an Institute for Mediterranean Agriculture and Olivery and a student home and a library. In this way, I believe that both the development of university programmes in Primorska and the municipality, which has an extremely poor staffing structure, will be mutually or mutually beneficial, as regards the educational level of the population. Unfortunately, according to the population of the municipality, which was in some way a victim of extensive employment in the labour-intensive industry. And in this way, when these university programs come to us, we now have a high school for health workers in our country, we can count on a significantly richer human resources structure, that professors and students who will start moving around our congregation, and sooner or later probably a lot of them will remain among us, that they will bring some new summer, a new impetus to the development of the Izola municipality. For this reason, I can also say that I am personally very happy to welcome this law, which will enable the realization of our common plans. The University of Primorska certainly means another incentive for the development of the whole of Primorska, but of course also our Izoles, so thank you to colleagues and colleagues who have supported the amendment, which has also allowed for an increase in the state guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to point out that, as Vice-President of the Higher Education, Science and Technology Development Committee, we visited the University of Primorska with the committee last year, where we discussed this guarantee to the University of Primorska, which we will today, I hope, confirmed and accepted. So I'm glad we're talking about this guarantee to the university today. Although there have been some complications in previous treatment, when the Social Democrats did not make the right amendment when they spoke of millions instead of billions, I hope that next time we will all pay more attention to what we write. As I said last time, support for this law means, above all, supporting Slovenian development and increasing its potential, and especially enabling students to better and better conditions in which they can work well. It is my opinion that this law has also led to the introduction of some new mechanisms and receptions, while also providing opportunities for the effective functioning of universities and, of course, taking into account their autonomy. The law on the guarantee of the University of Primorsk will allow individual colleges under the auspices of this University in Primorsk to no longer meet with daily inadequate spatial opportunities, which currently, as we know, do not allow normal study or professors, says those who teach or students who listen to lectures. The analyses that have been carried out show that the University of Primorsk is in a financially poor and unenviable position, in particular as regards the technological and functional equipment of the university which are members of this university. In 2002, a law on basic development programmes in the field of education and education was also adopted, setting out, among other things, basic investment objectives in the planned time periods for their implementation. However, many years of experience in the field of investment in school space has been the basis for the design of these programmes. Here I would like to point out that both the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology have been making investments throughout the framework of basic development programmes and under the conditions of budgetary planning and budget adoption. However, it is clear that only budget resources will not be able to realise the investments planned in the development programmes. With this law, which we are considering and confirming today, it would be possible or possible to accelerate technological development as well as a faster adaptation to the requirements of the European Union. In general, if we are aware today that we are involved in the process of creating a common European higher education space, which will, inter alia, allow for an exchange of views and unification of certain aspects of the design of higher education. Therefore, with great joy and also with pride that we have been able to do so, I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you. The word is Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Once again to all present a nice greeting! It has already been mentioned that the University of Primorska has faced spatial difficulties in recent years, since the Act establishing the university, adopted in the National Assembly in January 2003, has not yet been followed by others, other decisions on a material basis which are as important as this basic act. Notwithstanding this fact, despite the lack of this power and financial support, the University of Primorska, with the assistance of the local communities where it operates, and the economies, in our opinion and in my personal opinion, have achieved good results during this period, could also say over average. As a result, it was so much more incomprehensible to me that when the National Assembly, when it founded this university in 2003, took place six months after its establishment, why, in a law that it adopted six months later on 15 July and not August 15, it did not provide a guarantee for the University of Primorska. Thus, apart from the Ljubljana student organisation, the Maribor student organisation should simply write in this law to guarantee this university, because it was established six months earlier. This thinking was encouraged by the efforts of a colleague, respected colleague Sam Bevk, who, by introducing amendments, allowed these funds to increase from a billion 500 million to a billion 932 million tolars. And I took into my hands a magnetogram of the 28th regular session, on July 15, 2003, where Mr Bevk does not mention the University of Primorska. In order for this not to seem strange, I must say honestly that no one else who was then sitting in the Hall of the National Assembly remembered this university. Nobody. Nobody. It is said, despite the fact that in 2002, the Basic Development Programmes Act of Chapter 21 of the University of Primorska defined a materially devalued definition after the adoption of a law for older two universities, no one felt the need to regulate the status of this university as well. My colleague Pečanova is yelling at me through the hall, and neither is SDS. I said no one. But we know who was sitting in this hall in 2003. We know. There is no need to put particular emphasis on individual groups, but we can list them all. I have mentioned the distinguished colleague of Commissioner Bevek, who, of course, is in a different position now, in a position where making the amendments without any other checks, support, financial analysis is much easier. In addition, at one meeting of the Ministry of Science, it shall give the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the opposite at the second meeting of the Committee. I think that these matters are rather unrealistic, which is why we should learn something from this school and stop constantly resisting the current Members of the opposition's proposals. I think we're everywhere where they drink water and where they can be put into real financial frameworks. However, the fact is that in 2003, in July, the University of Primorsk could also be, to say the grave, covered by law. But she wasn't. And even though she was not, she managed to cope with her activities by connecting with local communities and the economy, to survive these years. I think that the things that are currently being set up are good, and if funds are to be spent well and efficiently, I firmly believe that they will be used at this university. For this reason, I am pleased with such support, and I think that even in the future, when we decide on similar things, it would be right to decide in the same way or the same way and not to mix apples and pears, according to our own words, because the debate on how we will burden future generations, which some have started with the guarantee for motorways, could also start here. It's a completely similar matter. But we all know that's not the case. In order to spend funds where credit repayments are provided and to relieve the institutions of individual unnecessary costs by such moves. In this particular case, the University of Primorsk will eventually save about 80 million dollars a year for unnecessary rents, which it was obliged to pay for renting premises that it did not now own. However, the second segment, which is important for the University of Primorsk, I think that this involvement in the environment also shows itself in such a way as to preserve or restore an important part of our building heritage through investments aimed at education. This is the case in the case of an army and forestery facility in Koper. Here I think it is a happy decision of the local community, that this facility was free of charge to the university and, on the other hand, a good decision by the university that it decided to revive this facility with such activity that students will meet it and all remain interested in the public. I think that this money, which will be invested in this facility, is going to be twice eloquent, not just once, and I think that in the future it would also be wise to do so in similar cases. Thank you very much. Of course, I'll be happy to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I won't argue with Mr. Black because I don't think he was on the level. On 29 January 2003, a good three years ago, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia established a third university in our country, the University of Primorska, today celebrating its third anniversary. In these three years, the university has taken a very nice development step forward. On 29 January 2003 and the period prior to that, there was a period of struggle for the University of the Sea. We have been very involved here, including in the Coastal Members' Club, not only MPs and members of the coalition, but also the opposition, and I could say that this was also one of the successful projects implemented by the Coastal Members' Club, regardless of client colours and regardless of coalition and opposition. I must be honest with you that the government was not always so favored at the time or before, but the pressure from this hall was great enough to bring about this establishment. Of course, each such institution uses resources for its work, spatial opportunities, human resources potential. Everything could not be realized in the first few months. The institution has grown gradually and will continue to grow and develop through the means afforded by this guarantee, which we will adopt today in the National Assembly. In the beginning, the bill's proponents proposed a billion-dollar guarantee and 500 million tolar guarantee. However, when we saw the Secretary-General of the University of Primorska at the Home Committee in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats taking on at least an additional 400 million dollars for projects already under preparation, then the Social Democrats' Group tabled an amendment and increased the guarantee from a billion 500 million to a billion 932 million tolars. Indeed, there was a typographical error at that time, which, according to my fault, had dropped three zeros, although it was clear from the explanation of the amendment that we had proposed an increase of 432 million tolars. Then, with the amendment's correction, we've also fixed it. So, I would say, we have also actively contributed from the opposition to this bill, even though we would like to be invited by our coalition colleagues, at least by the coastal Members, to cooperate at the outset. With this guarantee, it will be possible for her to have a college for humanities studies, rectorate, tourism, language center, faculty of education and faculty for management. However, I believe that, for the spatial and human resources and other needs of this university, funds will also have to be provided in the future, as they have to be provided for other investments of the first and second, or of the Ljubljana and Maribor universities. I am pleased that today the National Assembly will adopt this law and guarantee for the further development of the University of Primorska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you. A representative of the government, Mr Minister, also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member and honourable Members! I am pleased with the support this law has received. The fact is that we can't really talk about correcting some of the wrongs, because the fact that we've just given this money now is when, let's say, the need when the university was established. If we look at it in principle, of course, it makes sense, as we don't give it to a child at first, as soon as an organism develops, and when it sees its needs, when it starts looking for itself, when it begins to grow itself, to actually look at where the real needs are, where the intersections are, where the hotspots of work are, and then the needs are significantly better and substantially more economically expressed. That's why I think this is a very good time. I think you've seen all the Members and Members of Parliament, and that's why you've supported it. I am also grateful for the addition that was to the amendment, not because we would not want to give, but we know, of course, that money is not enough now, it is necessary to say, universities are developing, universities are living. I am very pleased to hear that even local communities are already decommissioning land, it is said, they have long-term plans with their planning in personnel, in education. I would like to remind you that in the next phase, there will be a reallocation or the purpose of the Structural Funds to put more in the infrastructure of education, education, research and the like. Universities belong to this infrastructure. We believe that, together with the projects that have been put in place, not only to give money to the government or to say only Europe, it is important that we all act together, namely local communities, the local economy and the appropriate country. This means that we are only at the beginning of the road, and even later, when we are solving this under the Structural Funds, I think it would make sense at that time that those working in local areas would be aware that there is much more to be prepared besides funds, that is, plans, permits and similar things, which usually takes almost more time than just the adoption of a law in the National Assembly. Nevertheless, I thank you very much for this support, and I hope that we will all enjoy the fruits of the University of the Sea and their students together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you, Minister. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Roach. Anyone else? Black man, Bevk. Mr. Secretary, you can call if you want. Anyone else? So we have three applications. Mrs. Pecanova, please, you have the floor. Five minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We're not gonna spend five minutes. I just want to say, or I'd rather repeat what I said when we discussed this law in another reading. The University of Primorsk is a project of all Primorsks and the University of Primorsk, and this guarantee law should also be a project of all coastal Members. Even then, I have already said that it is in itself reasonable and understandable that the University of Primorsk, the leadership, has turned to the coalition MP to submit this law. As a result, and in itself, it is self-evident that at the time when the University of Primorsk had already developed a development programme, when it also had some very far-off projects for building infrastructure, the matter matured, that it was possible for the National Assembly to discuss and decide on the granting of a guarantee without any kind of paper, which took place in 2003. I believe that the National Assembly, at the initiative of Members, is not only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which in this case has not undertaken the preparation and adoption of the guarantee law for this university, that it was not mature at the time that they could also adopt the guarantee law for the University of the Sea in 2003. Now that the university has come a long way with its programs, it also knows where it's going to build, it knows what it's going to build, it's already got very far-reaching programs. So things have now matured at this time. That is why I must say that it seems incorrect to me to talk about that projects - although some are not such opinions in this national assembly, but also - which are explicitly regionally, landlyly placed where we are after all - I hope that I will not offend anyone - but the only club of Members that we have held together quite well so far, but now here, Serbs would say, "we are shooting" - I do not know the Slovenian expression for this - we are competing in who has more merit, who is more intelligent, why in the past we have not done something. I think it would be wise, however, for us to sometimes not say anything, even though it is very itchy and confusing to say it. And you must admit, fellow Members of the sea and the MP of the sea, that you did not hear the obvious on my part until you challenged yourself that I had to react. It's not right to talk like that. And that's why I wanted to say the word right now that I can say it: we have to keep it together, just as the Primors kept it together under Italian fascism. No matter what the issue is, the Seamen will achieve a single development, so that we will develop from Bovec to Piran roughly the same way, so that we will have the same chance that the inhabitants of the Soča Valley will not have to move out for a proper piece of bread. That's all I'm saying. I don't want to tell anyone anything. So that no one would get the wrong idea that this is any kind of association on this day. No, I'm talking about the fact that Primorska has always been one, and let's keep united. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you. I don't know why you feel that way, dear colleague. I don't have that feeling with me; but if you have it, it's your problem, not mine. I'm just afraid that what I'm about to say is that I'm not going to challenge my esteemed colleague again, not to mention him again, not to mention how unfair I am or how I speak harsh words, as I was the last time this law was discussed, when I said the bare facts. But if the facts are those that are incorrect, that are immoral, that are painful, then forgive me. The facts are facts, and I have the right to speak for this speaker. I didn't insult anyone, and I don't intend to hurt anyone in the future. That's a lot more than you've ever had. It hurt me, too, because I'm part of this together, and I was quiet, and I told you the last time -- I was quiet, even though my tongue was very itchy. Now, about the thing and who's talking and who's deceiving and not knowing what. The University of Primorska is the third state university. It is true that with a very strong regional component, it is only a state university and as such must be equivalent to the other two state universities. The moment she was established in the National Assembly, she thus obtained these conditions. And there is no excuse that her status was not definitively settled in 2003. He's gone, and that's a fact. In 2002, the Basic Development Programmes Act, Chapter 21, clearly states the University of Primorska, the decree establishing January 2003 in this National Assembly, the Guarantee Act for Maribor and Ljubljana, July 2003. Now you tell me if I'm talking nonsense or anyone else. That's the way it is. And why it didn't work out, I don't know. And it doesn't matter. I just said that I am glad that some of them have now engaged much more than they were then, and in this regard he mentioned Mr Bevek, who has tabled an amendment here. Great. It's okay. And I didn't say anything bad about it. I told you the bare facts. This university didn't come from nothing. We all know this because it brings together members who were already working at that time. And all of these members already had needs: a college for humanities studies, management, teaching, tourism, all of which was working at the time, a high school for health care, which, irrespective of the fact that this law is now being passed, has already settled its spatial problems with the spending assistance of your local community, Mrs. Pečanova. That's right. I don't know that. I know what I can read. And I have made it clear that it is better than never and I have said that it is the last time to approach this matter in such a way as it should have been in 2003. That's all. These are naked facts. I personally assess that this support, which this law has received in the National Assembly, is a good traveller for the further development of the university, and I believe that, given the capacity of its own engagement that it has shown so far since its establishment in the past years, when it has very strongly linked to the economy, it will be more than the other two universities that it will also be able to use these funds in the most rational way. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen, and I think that's what's gonna happen. No one hired me to pursue this marriage. I simply fell as a replacement member instead of my colleague Jerovska last May on the committee of my colleague Mojet, who was in Cyprus. There it was decided that it was necessary to engage in this matter. That's all. Nobody else has encouraged me to do this, but my colleagues and colleagues in this national assembly who have adopted such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you. And Mr. Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Regardless of what has been done, what has not been done, what could still be done, it has not been done, the fact that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of which we were also social democrats, adopted a decree on 29 January 2003 establishing the University of Primorska and establishing the University of the Sea, after more than 11 years of efforts. The first idea to establish a coastal university dates back to 1992. And after eleven years of effort, the university was also formally created and established by a decree adopted by the National Assembly. And this is also due to the government, which was in the 2000-2004 mandate, with strong support, as I said before, from the MPs and Members of the Club of the Coastal Members, regardless of whether they came from the opposition or the coalition. It also coincided with the fact that at the time the Minister for this area was with Primorska, Dr Lucija Čok, and she also had much credit for the fact that the coastal university was also established at the time. Now I'm not going to make a mistake about what else I can do. In fact, the university was also established in the previous term, in 2003, after 11 years of efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss individual articles. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - To the defence of the proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the year 2006. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for the distribution of funds for co-financing by the parties in 2006. In this regard, the Home Committee for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly for discussion and adoption. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, to present both conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! At its 17th session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for the allocation of funds for the co-financing of political parties in 2006, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the General Secretariat of the Government said that the proposal had been drafted by the Government in accordance with the 2006 State budget, which sets the amount of funds for this purpose, and in accordance with the Political Parties Act, which sets out the key for the allocation of funds between individual political parties in view of their success in the elections. The members and members of the Committee did not discuss the proposal for a decision. The Committee then, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, drew up a proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to the individual political party, which is also an integral part of this report. It shall, however, propose to the national assembly that it be examined and adopted at its meeting under Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. A presentation of the views of the groups of Members is under way. First, Mr Willi Rezman will present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not just first, probably the only one. It seems that when customers share money, it sounds so self-evident that there is no need for debate. We in the parliamentary group were not exactly that opinion, although we know that the political essence and essence of events are also in Slovenia what determines life in us either in one, the other, the third economic, social, health or any other area. This is not even the worst; perhaps it is even worse that politics determines the essence and essence of individual customers. These parties have not so far, regrettably, had enough will to contemplate whether it is right to share these funds in such a self-evident manner and in such a routine manner, while we are assessing that certain discrimination is taking place. However, we will support the proposal for a decision because we know that those involved in politics also need certain means to do so, and we consider that the basis on which these funds are shared is wrong or discriminatory. Therefore, I may be surprised to learn that the moment is not present for those foretold by our national communities, for it is most likely that the greatest injustice will happen to them. The point is that the Political Parties Act discusses who can be financed on the basis of an election outcome or election result. Regrettably, those in Parliament who have been elected when talking about national communities are not financed if you look at this list, but that some who have lost the elections may be financed. That's the kind of marriage we have. We judge that a law must be changed or that another law should be applied to it. This is because the laziness of the answer, czech, the law on political parties cannot regulate the financing of those who are not organised into political parties, then it should be different whether it should be the law on political entities or whether it should be regulated in any other law. This is even more dramatic at the level of local communities, where we have in our local communities even such municipal councils, which are made up of independent councillors and councillors themselves, who cannot receive funding on the basis of an electoral result, but who have lost these elections can therefore not come to the municipal council, get them if they have at least half the voting vote. Well, that was our only intention today to apply for discussion. To point out that the legal basis on which we will adopt today's decision is poor, that it is discriminatory and that we appeal to the government or to anyone else to think about it and possibly to draw up another law that will allow all those who are successful in the elections, who then also lead, to create a policy for their work to receive material and financial satisfaction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of Members. Mr. Rezman, would you like some more? He's quitting. I don't have any other debaters on my list. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The proposed decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, which is at 3 p.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking this agenda. I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask the Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, which means the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I understand that the voting devices are working. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on compulsory insurance in transport. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 15. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 58 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 28. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 30. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 58 Members and Members present, for whom 49 votes against 4. [[49 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 30b. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 58 Members and Members present, for whom 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. This concludes this agenda item [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. [[...]] I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 15, 28 and 30a of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article. Please. Is an amendment announced? [[It's not.]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. I am informed that you already have the harmonisation amendment to Article 22 on your hands, and the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 3 is also on the table. I suggest we wait a few minutes for the amendment to be completely divided.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u145	Dear Members and honourable Members, we therefore have two harmonisation amendments before us, which eliminate the disharmony created by the changes in the articles created by the home working body and which could not be eliminated at later stages. I am opening a debate on the harmonisation amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the harmonisation amendments. We are moving to a vote on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 22. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment to Article 22 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are absolutely convinced, for the first time, that this law should not be followed at all by a reduced procedure, because it is a substantive intervention in so many articles and to such an extent that it is an absolutely unacceptable way and procedure. Secondly, this law deceives, for it does not interfere with and does not meet the objectives that it sets out between the objectives and the assessment of the situation, but interferes with all other areas, only on these. If this law is adopted, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we will request a constitutional court's assessment. Moreover, because we are convinced that it violates the basic constitutional principle of data guaranteed or the guaranteed confidentiality of citizens' and citizens' data.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? In your own name? [[Nobody.]] We are moving to a full vote on the law. Voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the war veterans law. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to Article 2 – we have three amendments. We turn first to the decision on the first amendment of the drafters of the Social Democrats Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the drafters of the Social Democrats Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 41. (For the vote was 18.)(against 41.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the drafters of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1 in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 9 to decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 9. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The amendment before you, which we believe must be supported, changes the position of the NOB fighters' union. In fact, the proposal, as drafted by the government, is also understood as changing the evaluation of NOBs. It's nothing new. We have already seen this in our consideration of the budget for the financing of those who have made a meaningful contribution to living on our own land. When we discussed the budget, we noticed that a number of associations and a society that cares about memory are underfed and significantly less funded than it once was. But what this amendment brings is the possibility that each minister, at his own discretion, would determine the criteria for how and how the associations of the fighters should be financed. This discretionary right is unacceptable to us. It leaves the minister with his own values and values, and at the same time from the practice we know, we are also afraid that this evaluation will go in a direction where the memory will be wiped out more and more. It was said that when we opened these questions, several times in the past, this chapter is not so important after all because fighters and fighters are leaving. Regardless of their leaving, and regardless of their dying, it is not right to wipe out and withdraw their role, which has been more important in history than someone wants to see and acknowledge in all their dimensions today. Please, in order to support the deletion of the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Potč.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The Group of the Social Democrats is convinced that the proposed Article 9 that we are discussing is unnecessary, but that it is not acceptable. It is unnecessary because the funding system for all veteran organisations is regulated in Article 1 and there is a possibility for veteran organisations to be given the right and status, to act in the public interest and to be financed in this way. It is unacceptable, however, because consciously, it does not convince me that this government is not conscious and willing to do so, I hope that not even the coalition as a whole changes the actual situation with this amendment to the association of national liberation fighters. At the same time, we are also working with the help of all parliamentary parties to objectify certain issues, and here comes a proposal whereby exclusive membership in a veterinary organisation as a veteran, but not the membership of all others who are members of the Association of Fighters, will play an important role in financing this organisation. This means that we do not recognize that the basic purpose of this organization is not to finance the rights of members, it is arranged elsewhere, but to provide certain objectives and activities such as: to cultivate and consolidate the patriotic, rebellious, anti-fascist traditions of the Slovenian people, to care for the preservation and transmission of the historical truth about the national liberation fight and so on. This is not only done by those members of the Union of Fighters, who are directly involved in partisan rebellion and other world wars, but also by everyone else. And if they cannot be taken into account by this purpose in the funding system, then it is the desire that this government and the government coalition reduce the importance of such content, which I firmly believe is contrary to the historical truth, as well as the desire to strengthen Slovenia's position and values within the European Union with a positive tradition of anti-fascism. I still have the minimum hope that you Members and Members of the coalition will learn the wrong direction and vote in favour of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Capuder, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Nob fighters are veterans according to the concept of this law. The financing of the organisation of war veterans is regulated by Article 1 of this Act. And in our party we think, if it is arranged there, in the way it is written down, then it is necessary to complete the financing under a special law, which is in force from the former Yugoslavia, which governs the financing of this relationship. Article 9 of this law, now amended by law, makes the law on war veterans so consistent. We agree and support the solution in Article 1 of this Law to take into account, in particular, the programme of society or associations of war veterans, the number of members, it is said, of war veterans themselves, and the property owned by society or the association of war veterans. The War Veterans Act does not change anything in the provisions which set out the special rights of war veterans. We are confident that individual veterans of the union of fighters will continue to have recognised all the rights they have already been recognised, even though a new Article 9 is being introduced, which repeals the law on the financing of the association of NOB fighters as an organisation or a society of public interest. The rights and duties of society or organisations will, however, be equal to or equal to those of other societies which are granted this special status. And that seems fair to us. Personally and even colleagues in Nova Slovenija do not see any need for the organization of fighters to have a different or more privileged status against other veteran societies, which also recognise the status of the society of war veterans in the public interest. We are opposed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Friend, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment must simply be adopted, otherwise article 18 of the constitutional law on the implementation of the fundamental Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia will be violated. That's what I'd like to point out. For all those who don't know how they're going to pressure, at least be consistent enough to have the Constitution of the world. And I believe that in this Chamber there are many who would like to turn history to a completely different side, to write it perhaps in black and white letters, and I believe that this is also the first step towards you starting to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you. Does anyone want to explain his voice in his own name? Mr. Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u156	Honorable President of the National Assembly, esteemed colleague and colleague! I think that the amendment should be supported primarily because it is necessary to read carefully what would otherwise be abolished by Article 9. The rights of many who are members of the Union of Fighters, some 20,000 victims, campers, children stolen, prisoners, refugees, all those who have not cooperated with weapons and have no status as veterans would be abolished. The Union of Fighters is not just a veteran organization and has had special status so far and it is right to have it. Everyone I counted earlier has no special roof organizations and in fact they find shelter within the Union of Fighters Associations. Since we often refer to humanity and humanity, I think that this amendment needs to be supported, however, also by all those who have contributed to Slovenia's freedom and independence today. Of course, I'll be very happy to support him without a doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. No one argued in the debate that this section 9 of the Act deprives participants of the rights of national liberation as individuals. But we argue that by introducing this article, by adopting this article or by repealing the law on the financing of the organisation of the Association of Fighters and Participants of the National Liberation Fight of Slovenia, we are putting an end to this, or on a long-term basis, it is evident, already after what happened in the adoption of the 2005 budget, the rebalance and the 2006 budget, 2007, when practically more than half of the funds have been spent on funding the organisations of the Association of Fighters, that it is also indirectly to end the preservation of the traditions of national liberation and that this is actually the purpose of this government. This government is counting on the fact that once the entire representation of the associations of fighters is virtually over, when the fighters are physically no longer required by tradition, it is no longer necessary to recall that Slovenia is founded on the struggle of these people, who have been giving their lives for four years to their people, in order to gain freedom, and that they can finally have, now, with the help of the veterans of the independent war, also the independent and independent state of Slovenia. I believe that this Article 9 is certainly the abolition of the traditions of the national liberation fight, which is what this current government actually wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you. I'd ask you to calm down a little bit. It's like a beekeeper. Please, Mr. Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not that funding will only bind to a membership that has a status in the hope that fighters will soon die out and that funding will dry up. As I said in the debate, we're all dead in the long run. Even veterans of war for Slovenia, including everyone else. And, of course, this can mean that if we tie this to membership, that when the last of these species leaves, financing will also dry up. There is also no way to bind funding to the individual minister in the individual government. Whether we will again, when we form a government, expect new criteria, new criteria, depending on the favor of the individual minister who will then lead this department. It is not just about financing the rights of individuals and individuals from these unions, organisations, societies. I can even agree to that, and I hope that this will not be thwarted. But it's about funding the operation. And working is important. It is also particularly important because of the state's attitude towards the maintenance of monuments, landmarks, and therefore we replace them within these organisations. It was clear from the debate that I would support this amendment, and I am also predicting it at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you. Someone else wants to explain their voice in their own name. No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 67 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? I guess not. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendment adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the end of the 19th item of the agenda - with the consideration of the proposed law on the succession of the Republic of Slovenia and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We have received one amendment to Article 9. It was submitted by a group of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS members. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of this group of parliamentary groups to Article 9. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I'm finishing second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 9 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - this is through the third reading of the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 of whom voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - the proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2006. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2006. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 for them, against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the continuation of the 6th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives. On Thursday 2 March 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law on the grounds of the adoption of amendments on the home labour body. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mrs Shirca, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u162	I, Mr President, am indeed creating some discomfort, but I have really raised my hand three times to explain or point to a law that we have talked a lot about last week, and I have also warned the government that this law, in the way it was written, is leading to a very, very risky adventure. I would also like to draw attention to the insufferable ease of all parliamentarians and parliamentarians who believe that the archival material, as regulated by the coming law, will have no problems, because it will have major problems, not the archival material that is already regulated by the existing law, which is prescribed in 95% of the law written by the new government, but we are talking about the 5% of the elevator that was created in this law, which will cause great problems when the state has to implement legislation that it does not provide no money and does not even know how it will do so. All the public documents will become a cultural monument, all the documents from the state administration will become a cultural monument, which will also be stored in digital form without having to do so Yes, indeed, you do not care much about history. [[...]] Today we have seen that at one point when we looked back at the year of independence, and now at the moment when we look back on the entire history of the Slovenes and Slovenes. The law costs 26 million dollars for an activity that, according to our assumptions, will require hundreds of millions. And there is a similar situation and a similar scenario as in RTV Slovenia when we warned that the law will not be implemented and not implemented. There are no parliamentary transfers because there is no money for them and because we have taken something into consideration. The archiving law is also the adoption of something, but also the creation of new rules, which are not what the developed Europe knows. Maybe when the marriage comes to life, there'll be a little more interest in it than it is right now. But in life, the facts are stronger than the ease of pressing a button. There may be some support for this law in the parliamentary group. The one we don't think is rational enough and thoughtful enough, we won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers. On Thursday, 2 March 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments have not been tabled in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 11th item of the agenda, which is to the third reading of the proposal for a law on the control of strategic goods of particular importance for safety and health. On Friday, 3 March 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice day!
