ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning! Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Zvonko Černač, Ivan Jelen, Aurelio Juri, Franz Kangler, Anton Kokalj, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Milan Petek and Flower Zalokar Orazem. I ask Members and Members present at the meeting of the State Assembly to calm down and occupy their seats. And we're moving on to 5. Period of the day - secondly, a proposal for a law on meteorological activity. I would like to inform you that a total time of debate is set for 1 hour and 55 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an additional explanation, 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u2	Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members, Mr Vice-President! Allow me to briefly present the content of the proposed law. First, I'd like to go back to history for a little while. Meteorological activity, especially as meteorological measurements, has been under way in the territory of the present Republic of Slovenia for more than 200 years. The beginnings date back to Tolmin in 1784, and to Ljubljana in 1824. The preserved meteorological data are more than 150 years old. The regular weather service began operating for our places after the establishment of the Central Institute of Meteorology and Geomagnetism in Vienna in 1848. After the fall of Austro-Hungarianism, he was replaced in Ljubljana by the Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics at the University. Most of the Slovenian operational meteorology is organized today within the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also the successor to the Hydrometeorological Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, which was established in 1947. More or less uninterrupted weather service has lasted almost 150 years with the current situation being comparable to the weather forecasting service for about 50 years. This means that, for 50 years now, we have a regular daily forecast of time on a scientifically sound basis that, for 50 years, operational meteorology and systematic measurement of weather data for climate studies have been in the same organisation. What were the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law? Until the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, meteorological and hydrological activities have been regulated by the Law on Hydrometeorological Activities, which is important for the whole country. After the independence of Slovenia, this law of the former country was still in force until June 1993, when the law on environmental protection was passed. This set out meteorological and hydrological tasks and their implementation. This law expired in 2004 with the adoption of a new law on environmental protection, but all the solutions from the old law were preserved in respect of meteorological activities. The development of human society, its economy and technology is increasingly showing a direct dependence on natural conditions, where time and climate play one of the most important roles. The ever-increasing impact of weather and climate on human society, developments in meteorology, the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the World Meteorological Organisation, the management of meteorological data and the comparability with regulation in the Member States of the European Union have required the regulation of those issues of meteorology which are important for the functioning of the country, in particular with regard to environmental protection and protection against natural and other disasters and the environment, transport safety, the defence of the country and international cooperation in the field of meteorology. The current Environmental Protection Act does not fully incorporate all these issues and, above all, not sufficiently detailed, and is not useful as a legal basis for regulating all cases where the Meteorological Service has to perform tasks that are important to the State and to the public. Nor does it provide a legal basis for the conduct of activities to be undertaken by the State in the light of its international obligations; it is not regulated by this law to ensure the quality of meteorological observations and certain meteorological services outside the State Meteorological Service. The Republic of Slovenia is also a member of the World Meteorological Organisation, which is a specialized agency of the United Nations. The World Meteorological Organisation has recommended that all Member States define the status of their national meteorological services by means of appropriate legislation to highlight the clear purpose of the functioning of the State Meteorological Service, its tasks, the provision of the necessary financial resources and the unequivocal role of the State Meteorological Service as an official centre for warning of weather and climate events and events relating to protection against natural disasters in order to prevent confusion and confusion in the public. In the introduction or in the material to the law, we have also prepared arrangements for meteorological services around the world and the European Union, and allow me not to mention them here. With regard to the content of the proposed law, however, the following. In view of the above and in accordance with the above recommendations of the World Meteorological Organisation, the Government has drawn up a law to the extent that you have today on benches, which mainly includes the regulation of the functioning of the State Meteorological Service, regulates the state network of meteorological stations and meteorological stations at certain types of facilities where they are needed for safe operation, including mandatory implementation of certain types of meteorological services at these facilities, as well as registers and records, and taking into account the effects of weather and climate in the planning and design of such facilities. Some solutions regarding the State Meteorological Service: The Law defines its organisational form and defines tasks, the State Meteorological Service will be carried out in the Ministry of the Environment and Space, its tasks include in particular the establishment, maintenance, management and care for the development of the national network of meteorological stations and the implementation of meteorological observations on them, the preparation and transmission of meteorological warnings necessary to carry out the tasks of the State, the municipality or the public concerned, as well as the management of databases. This is the subject of an amendment to this law. The tasks of the State Meteorological Service include activities arising from international obligations adopted under the World Meteorological Organization Convention. The law also sets out other tasks performed by the State Meteorological Service, such as various meteorological studies, observations, the production of various meteorological services. The most famous are weather forecasts. However, these tasks are not reserved exclusively for the State Meteorological Service. In the framework of their activities, other persons may also perform them. With regard to weather stations, the law lays down the conditions for the operation of weather stations of the state meteorological network and those with which meteorological observation is carried out on certain objects and installations. The station shall meet certain technical and spatial conditions prescribed by the competent minister. They must be entered in the register of meteorological stations. The law also regulates the state network of weather stations in more detail. These have the status of meteorological infrastructure, but we also set out their legal regime, which is equivalent to the legal regime of most infrastructures of national importance, exclusive property of the country, exclusion from legal traffic, prohibition of possession and enforcement and similar solutions. The law also provides that the construction of meteorological infrastructure is in the public interest and lays down the conditions when it is possible to decommit or restrict property rights of landowners in such cases. With regard to the mandatory operation of meteorological services in certain types of facilities, the obligations of operators of certain types of facilities and installations shall be laid down in order to ensure that they are safe and usable in the law, by mentioning the motorway, the fast road and the regional road of the first order, the port and the high barrier. It is therefore an obligation to ensure the implementation of meteorological observations at these sites, at registered meteorological stations. Such observations may be carried out by a national meteorological service or by an individual who fulfils certain conditions - education, work experience - and is entered in the register of persons who may carry out such observations. With regard to registers and records, the law provides that they are managed by the Ministry and the State Meteorological Service, and that public access to these data is also determined. With regard to taking into account the impacts of time and climate in planning and design, however, the law governs how the impact of time and climate is taken into account. The drafters of the spatial acts with which such facilities are planned are expected to obtain guidance on the impact of time and climate on the intended spatial arrangements; and the investors of the project conditions. However, guidelines and transport conditions shall be issued by the operator of the State Meteorological Service. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you also support the proposed law after the debate on the content of the law and the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister Podobnik, for further explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Rudolf Petan, to submit a report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The Committee on the Environment and Space of the National Assembly considered the above-mentioned law on meteorological activities, written opinions and comments were provided by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Slovenian Meteorological Society. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the proposer - the Minister of Environment and Space - explained that the preparation of the special law on hydrometeorology, which is now regulated by the 2004 Law on Environmental Protection, required development in the field of meteorology and the increasing impact of time and climate on human society, the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the World Meteorological Organization, the handling of meteorological data and comparability with regulation in EU Member States. The aim is to adequately address the issues of meteorology which are important for the functioning of the State, in particular with regard to environmental protection and protection against natural and other disasters, transport safety, the defence of the State and international cooperation in the field of meteorology. He stressed that the proposed amendments, which were prepared, did not change the concept of the law. They improve the text of the law, in particular in the more precise and consistent implementation and definition of the State Meteorological Service, taking into account the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The text is also improved in the work relating to weather stations, their entry into the register, and the modification of the weather station is simplified as it no longer requires a prior authorisation from the Ministry. Following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the legal text has also been improved in the work relating to the possibility of depriving and restricting property rights due to the construction of meteorological infrastructure. The proposed amendments also better regulate the integration of time and climate into the preparation of spatial acts that will plan certain facilities, in accordance with the rules on space regulation and the acquisition of project conditions in their design, in accordance with the building regulations. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said at the meeting that the proposer with the proposed amendments fully followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It highlighted only the air weather service, which, according to the rules of aviation and provides air navigation services, is part of navigation services. However, according to the law under consideration, it is envisaged to be carried out within the framework of a meteorological service. The Committee on Environment and Space, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held discussions and votes on the individual articles of the draft law and on the amendments tabled, and adopted its amendments to a number of articles. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the bill and after the discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with the Rule of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for a law on meteorological activities, which is an integral part of the report, is prepared in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u6	I wish a good day to the Minister with his fellow Members, all Members and Members of Parliament! Time is an important part of the natural environment. It directly or indirectly affects many of our activities. It is most noticeable when we are affected by exceptional or dangerous phenomena that could endanger our property, safety, or life. Such phenomena are, for example, strong wind, hail, strong rains, salt. Of course, the weather is also important to us when it remains within the limits of normal conditions, so we want to listen to current weather forecasts for today, tomorrow, and a few days in advance. The nature protection agency also offers us specialized weather forecasts, such as flight forecasts, weather forecasts in the mountains, by the sea, alert us to the threat of a natural environment with fires and inform us of snow conditions in the mountains. They also offer us a forecast of the impact of time on the general feeling and mood of people, and in the summers they present us with UV index forecasts so that we can adequately protect ourselves from strong sunlight. Together with the Institute for Health Protection, they are preparing a forecast of air pollution with allergogen species of floral dust in the air. This is precisely the problem that many people face at that time. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian People's Party, we are pleased to consider today the proposal for a law on meteorological activities. We believe that by adopting this law we will give meteorological activity to the city which deserves it. This activity is now governed by only one article of the Nature Protection Act in the 12-row fights. The proposed law regulates the manner and conditions of meteorological activity with a view to ensuring credible meteorological information and, in this context, in particular, the implementation of the State Meteorological Service, the conditions for the registration of a meteorological station and the issuance of certificates of entry into the register of individuals who may carry out meteorological observations at specified facilities or facilities whose operation and safe use depends on time or climate. In particular, the law regulates the meteorological activity carried out within the framework of the State Meteorological Service, while the market for meteorological services is not regulated. The law provides that the Ministry responsible for meteorology must prepare a long-term programme of meteorological activities adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The programme shall set for at least 10 years the objectives, guidelines and measures to study and identify the impacts and consequences of the weather and climate conditions in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 10 of the proposed law regulates the State Meteorological Service, which is established with a view to examining the natural phenomena related to weather and climate in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and to preparing and chair credible meteorological information provided in the public interest by the State directly as a national meteorological service. The law also provides that the implementation of the State Meteorological Service is the responsibility of the Ministry. The proposed law is fully governed by public or state meteorological activity. Scientific and technological developments have enabled us to systematically monitor the weather with increasingly demanding and capable devices. Without high-quality data and analyses, climate change cannot be detected, and even less in the development plans, the impact of change on human activities can be taken into account in the long term. A well-organised and efficient national meteorological service is urgently needed to reduce the impact of weather conditions and to adapt to the changed climate. A good marriage basis for that is ahead of us today. Members of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Developments in meteorology and the increasing impact of time and climate on human society, the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the World Meteorological Organization, the management of meteorological data and comparability with regulation in the Member States of the European Union have called for the preparation of a law that will deal more adequately with the issues of meteorology, which are important for the functioning of the country, in particular with regard to environmental protection and protection against natural and other disasters, transport safety and the defence of the country, as well as international cooperation in the field of meteorology. Until the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act in 1993, hydro-meteorological activities, which are important for the whole country, were regulated to a certain extent by the Hydro-meteorology and Meteorology Act. This issue is now regulated by the 2004 Environmental Protection Act. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposer's intention to deal more appropriately with the proposed law on meteorology issues that are important for the functioning of the country, particularly with regard to environmental protection and protection against natural and other disasters, transport safety, the defence of the country and international cooperation. The law thus submitted includes arrangements in the functioning of the State Meteorological Service, the State Meteorological Station Network and the Meteorological Station in certain types of facilities where they are necessary for safe operation, including mandatory implementation of certain types of meteorological services at these facilities, registers and records, and taking into account the effects of time and climate in the planning and design of these facilities. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law on meteorological activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! Given that the Minister has had a long, at least for this government a long, introductory presentation and that both my predecessors have very clearly and accurately stated what the main solutions to this law are, I will not do this alone and will not read the explanations that we have received in the Rapporteur. The fact to be mentioned is certainly that, until now, meteorological activity has been regulated by two roof laws, this is the law on environmental protection and that I will not think too much about it, in the 20 sub-legislative rules governing meteorological activity, so I must say that I am very pleased that the government has decided to draw up a comprehensive law on meteorological activities. The solutions to the law that are envisaged are certainly good, given that for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia we face a law that regulates meteorological activity in an integrated manner, as well as the financial consequences of the law, in so far as they are concerned. I hope that they will maintain that the implementation of the new law will have no additional budgetary implications or will be carried out under the existing financial resources allocated to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the Republic of Slovenia, I apologize for the meteorological activities. The fact is that the law in the first stage, in the first reading, had quite a few mistakes, we must admit that we are all sitting here, because the legislature has made its specific comments on almost 35 articles of this law. It is also welcome that all these comments have been taken into account on the Committee on the Environment and Space, and this has made the law at least as good as it has made it. The Slovenian National Party's remark to the law on meteorological activities is primarily this and I hope that this law will also be upgraded, including by the Government. For so far, the law defines in particular obligations and rights under the jurisdiction of the State. We do know, however, that meteorological activity has also been defined so far by sub-legislative rules, setting out the obligations, rights and duties of individual local communities, particularly in areas where, I will say, the time has been that of people who are mainly engaged in agricultural activities. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party because it is at least so well prepared that we will now be able to have this matter fully regulated in one law and not in many as it has been so far. And last but not least, I think that the people of those to whom we are all most angry in the spring and autumn times and for whom we can tell by the daily reports that they cannot predict time back, let alone forward, deserve such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. Presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group, Member of the Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on meteorological activities certainly represents a great gain for this profession, as the meteorological activity today is not legally regulated and therefore we support it in the DeSUS Group of Members. By adopting this law, the meteorological activity will receive its own paragraphs, which it lost by the independence of Slovenia. This area is only generally regulated by the environmental law, which is not useful for managing a number of cases in practice where the service has to perform tasks both for the state and for citizens. Meteorology is also not mentioned by any directive of the European Union, nor is it foreseen, so the regulation of this area in the country's domain is itself, the weather activity is organized around the world and is also not harmonised in the EU, so it would be very difficult to find common examples. Nevertheless, effective international cooperation is certainly necessary, as time alone does not know national and other borders. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore support the recommendation of the World Meteorological Organisation as UN Special Agencies and thus the proposal for a law to regulate the role of the State Meteorological Service. In our view, the proposal for a law very well defines meteorological information and the very tasks of the State Meteorological Service, collecting meteorological data and their access to further processing. In short, the proposal regulates the organisation of what the state needs to regulate in the field of meteorology. The adoption of the law is also needed in terms of protection against natural disasters, the protection of human lives and property. In particular, Members of the DeSUS welcome the solution to the establishment of a single meteorological service, as we estimate that the fragmentation of this service in different institutions and regulations cannot provide quality data and that the introduction of uniformity is also important in terms of rationalisation. Thus, Slovenia is in fact one of the few countries in Europe that has established a single meteorological service, which represents support for aviation and defence for other sectors and not least for citizens. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on meteorological activities, as this area is comprehensively and systematically regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u14	Hello, present! Time touches us all. When man began to understand meteorological phenomena on physical bases, an operational observation of time began. In the world, this was about 200 years ago, and it runs with preserved data, I stress, with preserved data for 150 years, since 1850 in Ljubljana. After the establishment of the Institute for Meteorology and Geomagnetism in Vienna, and after World War I, the Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics. After the Second War, the Meteorological Institute of the Republic of Slovenia was established. The meteorological activity is now carried out within the framework of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Data obtained and processed shall be transmitted for aviation, maritime transport, agriculture, hydrology. We use this data in a way all of us. Since 1947 a forecasting service on the synaptic method has also been established. Since weather processes do not know state borders, Slovenia is also involved in the World Meteorological Organisation of the WMO, a specialized agency of the United Nations, and has the task of international cooperation in establishing a network of measuring stations for the opposite international exchange of data to standardise measurement and data processing. The current Environmental Protection Act has been in force since 1993 and has defined, in Article 94, meteorological and hydrological tasks and the performance of these tasks. This law does not provide for the conduct of operational meteorological activities in sufficient detail. This is also the reason for the adoption of a new law which will provide a legal basis for regulating cases of practice that are important for the country, the economy and each individual. International obligations in this area need to be regulated. The new law aims to satisfy the demands of state authorities and stakeholders to obtain credible meteorological and related information. To determine which credible meteorological information are official and how to deal with it, to enable the exploration of climate and weather conditions for the purposes of faster economic development, to enable the development of the State Meteorological Service, the standardisation of meteorological activities, the appropriate exploitation and effective protection of climate resources, including for national defence, etc. Ensuring that national legislation is in conformity with international law and that legally binding operational activity requirements are introduced. The law also provides for mandatory provision of meteorological observations and other activities. It's just something from the content of that law. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Pavel Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In LDS we expected a law on public meteorological activity or service, but in fact we will get and get a law that supports meteorological meteorology or more fairly stated that codifies the state of law than it is now. If we look at the law and are exposed beyond what the law defines as state meteorology, there is nothing or not much left. We also expected that, at the level of terminology, there would be a gap between public meteorology and the production of meteorological data that are on the market, so that we would know that meteorological activity on the basis of data can also be work-based products other than public meteorology. We have observations about the public situation: the state. In our opinion, public interest is broader than merely national interest, it may also include the interests of certain municipalities, certain other associations of a public nature, so it would be correct and correct if they spoke mainly of public meteorology, not of state meteorology in this sense, as it is set here. In our view, the public interest in meteorology is, of course, important and relates to the construction, maintenance and operation of meteorological infrastructure, to observations and related activities, to the construction, maintenance and processing of databases and to the production of meteorological products, which were previously described from weather forecasts to information on pollen and similar matters. Why is this difference between public meteorology and private if you want to, in private or in private? As the importance of meteorological data increases in parallel with the use of information technologies. Today, if I may say so, it is possible to withdraw from this data substantially more than ever before, and secondly, because weather conditions are such that more and more activities depend on meteorology, such as insurance, tourism, and could still be listed. It is therefore important that these databases are accessible and accessible for processing in different private services for these purposes. It is also necessary to distinguish between data collected in raw or rough form and between meteorological products. The first, in our view, should be in the free access regime and products should in principle be paid, except when they have already been paid by the State and can be used for the so-called secondary use. Some of the amendments adopted by the Committee improve access to data, perhaps even important, but this accessibility, at least as far as LDS is concerned, is not what you would like. But surely, this must be said, but certainly not among the worst in Europe, you could say that it is in the upper part of the golden middle. We also have comments on paragraphs 32, 33 and 34, which regulate the specific conditions for planning the construction of buildings. Although this article with the amendment of the committee has been greatly improved, we still believe that this matter does not belong to this law, but to spatial and building legislation. What's this all about? We note how the acquisition of building permits, of course, has been "acquired". How? Very simple - all individual sectoral laws have begun to be declared a co-operator in the process of obtaining building permits. And now we have one more and, of course, another more consensus, and this will lead to an even more bureaucratic process. Therefore, the objects referred to in Article 21 are, in themselves, duly or even in the regulations governing these objects, to take into account, among others, data in the field of meteorology. As I know, the High Barriers Regulation contains a requirement for monitoring, and a half in the field of meteorology. So the hydrological regime, the state of the water and so on, so we don't know why it has to be written again. It is commendable, however, that meteorologists have finally eliminated their artillery functions and no longer have to fire on barns and houses hoping to fire. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on the clouds. [[...]] It's important to say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u17	Comrade Gantar, I've been forced to interrupt you, you've overstepped time, you know the rules. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to the representative or Ambassador Janko Webr to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Meteorological activity is certainly one of the important knowledge that is still somehow involved in all activities that take place on the earth’s crust, if we can call it that. The basic purpose of the functioning of the State Meteorological Service is to provide regular, systematic and high-quality meteorological information for the protection of the defence and protection of the population and goods due to the best possible use of weather and climate related natural data, which is important for economic and social development. And since Slovenia is currently facing one of the biggest challenges as it prepares its new spatial order, its new development strategies, it is still important that you have sufficient quality data at your disposal, with which you make this development useful. All too often, in Slovenia, we face damage in agriculture, the economy, in settlements where we also meet victims among the population, it is also very important to control meteorology or data collection in aviation and, last but not least, because of the people's mood, how and how we transmit this information is very important. Thus, individuals can be more careful in their daily work than they would otherwise be. This greatly reduces the cost of operation of the country as well as of each individual. Of course, in the case of the Social Democrats, we are concerned that, from the moment we organise ourselves and try to collect the relevant data, we do not take sufficient account of these data in the planning of the solutions and still do not follow them in support of the implementation of these solutions or measures. For years we have been faced with a lack of respect for the water industry, which is still somehow integrated between meteorology and the daily needs of both activities. Water protection, sufficient water supply, adequate quality assurance, maintenance of water management facilities and, last but not least, maintenance of watercourses is one of those important activities in the space that can further guide us to plan our spatial development carefully enough and especially in those areas where this is most optimal. We would like to see the real proposal of the Law on Meteorological Activities contribute to making these data even better and that the network of meteorological stations itself would be sufficiently appropriate, especially in Slovenia, because Slovenia is a small but highly diverse country, including with regard to weather conditions, and it will also be appropriate to regulate meteorological stations. With what we already have built in Slovenia, we would like to see it actually built into an even more efficient network and obtain even more efficient data, and we hope that this section will gain additional impetus, additional support through this law. But we all hope, of course, that then we will also use the data obtained. That is why we will support this Law on Meteorological Activities and will also try to follow it in implementing it in a way that plans for appropriate solutions in space and that measures are also being implemented accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 21.4. this year. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SDS and SLS parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Then I conclude the dispute Apologize, Ambassador Pavel Gantar, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u20	The motioner didn't say anything, but I would have made a comment. Earlier, this mechanical device, which limits the freedom of speech in this House, which I have repeatedly protested, has limited me, so I would end. We are pleased that this artillery function has disappeared from meteorology and that it will no longer be necessary to shoot, at least officially, although not for a long time, to shoot at the ocean clouds and attack houses, barns and bathrooms. That's fine, but in the end, I would just say that we won't oppose the law, and after all, we think that it does bring us dissatisfied with the concept, as I mentioned, but it does bring some strength to this meteorology, which is important. After all, it can be said that this law is not opposed to the weather today. If we looked out the window, we'd see that it's a pretty sunny day, and I hope when the law is passed, that it won't get messy and there won't be any storm. Thank you very much. Article 18 of the amendment, I apologize, Mr Vice-President, this amendment was essentially the title of a proposal made by or addressed by the LDS Members. It is good for this amendment to be known that this documentary material is being stored at the meteorological service, as we can see now, in the performance of the State Meteorological Service. We also hope that it will be understood that material is stored in this manner under the archival rules and that access to the archive is as defined by the articles, the law on access to information of a public nature and the articles in this law. If we understand it this way, this proposal is an amendment to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Ambassador Rudi Veršnik, allow me to read the amendment under discussion and only on it, in short, not to discuss the law in its entirety, but only the amendment to Article 28, and I ask that all future debaters take this into account. The contractor of the State Meteorological Service shall keep documentary material with the information referred to in the preceding paragraph in accordance with the rules on the protection of documentary and archival material and archives. We're only talking about this amendment. It's your rules. My colleague or Member Rudi Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I agree with you, but I think that the practice so far has been different and has not been constantly bound by this amendment alone. I fully support the proposed amendment, but nevertheless I think I must say a few words earlier to justify it. So a nice greeting to all present. When dealing with the problem of meteorological activity, its regulation in the Slovenian space, it seems necessary to further highlight some of the topics already mentioned in the text of the introduction, the proposal of the law, but were not fully implemented in the law itself. As regards meteorological activities, since the integration of the former hydrometeorological institution into the Environment Agency, we have witnessed a significant decrease in the public recognition of the importance of operational meteorological activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u23	Comrade Versnik, if you'll excuse me. Look, please, be so correct to me, because you know that in a few days, in a few months, I will get a clear statement that I am allowing you to debate, the rules of procedure have been in force since 2002 and since 2002 we have rules to talk only about the article and the amendment tabled to the article. We're in Article 28. I read the amendment earlier. But I will only allow the debate on this, these are the rules agreed in 2002, please do not make me uncomfortable when you know that you will be able to read it to me for a period of time. Please stick to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u24	Mr President, I fully agree with you if this were to apply everywhere and always, I would be at all for it and I would stop right now. But despite all that, I'm just going to say that I agree with that amendment because our client put it in the procedure. I think it is right that the material contained in the previous paragraphs is protected and stored in accordance with the rules as archive material for things likely to continue to be used from these data. Clearly, the data is useful and should be properly stored in accordance with all regulations and laws, so I will fully support this amendment, which is here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you for accepting my wish in the second part, thank you again. The Minister is also mentioned in the statement. Here you go, Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government supports the proposed amendment of two parliamentary groups. I would like to say that, in the debate on the Committee itself, Member Gantar, as he has already said, raised the question that a valid solution, as recorded in the second reading material, could mean that it would go in some elegant way to avoid the law on access to public information and thus declare such information as archival data. We have already explained on the committee that this was not the legislator's intention, but the other way around. Although the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly did not see this danger of such interpretation, the two parliamentary groups followed the debate on the Committee and proposed the proposed amendment. We see in it the more precise obligation of the State Meteorological Service operator to store documentary material, I stress, documentary material with meteorological data in the manner prescribed by the archival regulations, and these are primarily intended to protect documentary material from deterioration or even destruction, space, climate conditions, etc. I reiterate that it was not really intended to limit anything in this Article of this paragraph, but we have seen in the instrument of protecting this set of data also in essence the attitude towards precious heritage, which then also serves in the future. Therefore, we have followed this amendment several purposes, and this solution has been followed, and the interpretation itself is now certainly such that the relationship to this data will be in accordance with the provisions of the law and also in accordance with the provisions protecting information of a public nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you. I'm not sure, but I think that Member Pike has spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I am also in favour of the amendment to Article 28, because I simply see no reason why the archive obtained at the agency regarding these meteorological data should be treated differently to other valuable archives. It is right that we deal with this by the same key, because this is a very valuable material, especially at the time when we, among other things, have caused climate change that is already visible in the world and in us. It is only right that we leave our craftsmen with that original, that fundamental source of these archives to study this time, this climate that surrounds us daily as part of natural phenomena. That is why, of course, I will support this amendment, and I do not see it myself, as the Minister says, to limit the functioning of the service, the functioning of meteorologists and the study of time. The obvious thing is that the agency can have two, three copies; from these copies it draws the substance, processes the data, so that I can see in this completely regulated thing and without limitation, and I think it's right, and of course I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. As I no longer see the desire for a debate, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or no later than 21:00 and 5 minutes. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities. I am pleased to inform you that a total time of 45 minutes is foreseen for this debate. Member Aleš Gulič submitted the draft law to the assembly for consideration. With regard to this law, the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Public Administration proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the proposer of the law for further explanation of the bill. Ambassador Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u30	Dear President! Dear fellows! In fact, I could refer to the previous law on weather and weather, in which we heard something about the services involved. It was instructive and educational, and I hope that I will be able to use this language in the presentation of this law. I present the Law on Religious Freedom and Religious Communities again, a second time. In second, we are talking about the same law that you rejected for the first time on 25 October last year. That is also the proposal today. He'll fall under the cross another time. It's fate, maybe ever. At that time and this time, arguments, lies and instigations were used, if they were based on another constitution, not on Slovenian, that what is connected with the Slovenian Constitution was misunderstood, that divorce was not as written as it was written, and that the government had drafted its law. On 25 October this was hot, of course there was no law. And then he wasn't there for six months. It was a lie then, and of course it remains written. The law I propose speaks of something that could be summed up briefly to use a language other than my own, a law against the Pharisees, a law against the State Church, against the excessive interrelationship of various authorities, spiritual, political, economic. On both aspects, on all three aspects I will not explain long and widely, because I know you understand this, and I know that you have read the law, even if you now have it in your closets and are waiting for a new one. But I still think that it would be fair for all religious communities, to this country, to all those who believe that this law would be dealt with in plenary session, if nothing else, because it is instructive and educational, because it would also clarify matters that are so silent among people. This is a place of debate, discussion, a space of freedom, and religious freedom. My proposal for a law is, of course, one that introduces justice to all religious communities and to all believing citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and also to those who do not believe. The rights and obligations are equally established for all and the separation between what is a state and what is a religious community is clear, transparent, unequivocal. No one is privileged, no religious community is privileged, and freedom is given to all alike. The worst observation in these discussions in the meantime was that we expel believers from the public. No, no, no, no, no! That doesn't come to my mind. And the law is written in such a way that all of this is included in the life and work of this country. Unfortunately, the second law's proponents used lies in disqualifications. But he can't lie. That's what we've heard, but this is where we're assessing more actions than words, and the last time we've heard that something hasn't happened, of course we all know that it has; I think the Prime Minister has talked about it, about the Vice-President's place, how it hasn't happened and what else we could find. If disqualifications are based on lies, it is clear that this law will actually fall for the second time under the cross today. And literally under the cross, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you. The government does not have a word on this point, because the rapporteur is a Member of Parliament, Mr Aleš Gulič. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Dr. Chapar, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party a few months ago, when we discussed a similar law on religious freedom and the religious community of the same colleague, Mr Gulic, we stressed that it is imperative in Slovenia to regulate the area of religious freedom and religious communities in accordance with internationally recognised standards. As is widely known, we now have a valid, outdated law on the legal situation of religious communities, and constitutional provisions only lay down fundamental principles, which is why there is too often a variety of interpretations of religious freedom and separation between the State and religious communities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that it is necessary to arrange fully under this area as soon as possible. However, this fact must not be the reason for the adoption of a law that would not arise with the great cooperation of religious communities in Slovenia and would not be the result of the greatest possible consensus or majority support of the majority of religious communities that reside or operate in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it should be noted that a law on religious freedom has already been introduced in the procedure of the National Assembly, which was prepared by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Religious Communities. The Office has prepared a proposal for a law that, according to the Director of the Office, Dr. Čepar, has received the majority support of religious communities in Slovenia and is also the result of their opinions, proposals and comments to the greatest extent possible. The proposal for a law on religious freedom and the religious community tabled by a colleague, Mr Gulič, interprets in its own way, at least in certain segments, the question of religious freedom and religious communities and departs from the full understanding of the constitutional provisions governing this area. Let me mention just one provision of the article that speaks of 13-year-olds. I don't even know this year in seniors or underage minors. On the basis of what is said, there is no reason for the Members of the Slovenian People's Party not to vote this time on the proposal for a law on religious freedom and the religious community, as we did last year. Especially because, as has already been said, in the procedure of the Law on Religious Freedom, which we think is a more appropriate basis for discussion, and it was also prepared by representatives, as has already been said, of most religious communities in Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote in favour of the completion of the procedure for the proposed law tabled by colleague Gulič and to proceed as soon as possible to the examination of the law prepared by the Office for the Religious Communities of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The government coalition, which adopted a negative decision on the home labour body, has, in good practice, followed the view of the government, which in the first sentence stated: "The government opposes the proposal of the law because the whole concept of the law is based on the wrong interpretation of the principle of religious freedom and the related principle of separation of the State from religious communities." At this point, I am asking what is right for this government to interpret the principle of religious freedom. Or that the Church, with its hunters today, is increasingly and increasingly interfering with the country, i.e. in that sphere which, after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is separated from religious communities, also from the Church. The government wants state funding for social security contributions from dedicated persons, employees and staff of religious communities. The government favours only one of the registered religious communities in Slovenia. The government wants the Church, as an important extension of the state, to bring even over the sphere of so-called civil society - to remind me here of the law on societies. The government wants more rights in terms of budgetary resources for the existence and functioning of trade in religious ideas. The government even wants to have a criminally irresponsible religious community, a boycott of respect for the principle of separation of the Church from the state. On the other hand, the government wants to employ new people at state costs within the Church or religious communities. The government even provides for budgetary or tax subsidies, reliefs to the benefit of religious communities. According to government representatives, citizens and citizens are expected to pay about 500 million Slovenian tolls annually for the social transfers of religious officials. Last but not least, the government wants us to close our eyes to introduce a religious public school. The government is wise to take steps to collect or erase clues in particular. Last year this Parliament adopted a new law on the financing of education and education, which opened the door not to religious content, but to religious belief in school. For all I have mentioned, the government opposes the present proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities because it will adopt its law. It opposes the fact that today's bill aims to ensure the separation of the State and religious communities, since the proposal abolishes, in the long run, the state co-financing of social security contributions to religious employees because it follows the principle that the decision to register religious communities is free because the proposal does not favour just one religious community because it is based on the principle of non-profitability of religious communities because it does not support religious care in the military, in the police. The Government opposes the proposal because it follows the clear dictatorship enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that religious communities are separate from the State. It is unacceptable, you know, that the Church interferes with its views in the country and in politics, and here I will only recall the story of the RTV law. I believe that in today's presentations we will continue to listen to the views of the Group. However, let me repeat one more naked fact, which is why we will not support the negative decision of the Slovenian National Party in the parliamentary group and, of course, blindly reject the bill prepared by the Government or prepared and, of course, will be adopted sooner or later within this Parliament. The Roman Catholic Church earned or regained property worth 28 billion Slovenian tolars by denationalisation. This is 100.175 average gross wages in the Republic of Slovenia, or for 8 years and four months 1000 new jobs, or for 10 months 10,000 jobs. Has the Church become the second economic pillar in the country? We will not support the decision in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Let me introduce to you that for us this area of social life was not so high in the order of priority that we would be obliged to adopt such or any other law that would change the existing one. We would like to stress this in particular, especially because we are assessing in the DeSUS Group that this proposal, which is now under consideration, is the one that the government sends to us after this one, I suppose, is rejected, is more divided than they are trying to unite. Now let's leave aside the reasons why this is, but that's how it works. It is therefore important for us to stress that we did not coalitionly commit ourselves to this proposal. Our attitude towards the proposed law and to what the government has referred to is: no. So we're not going to support this and not the one we're going to get in time to deal with. This, the current one, which we are talking about now, actually maintains more or less some tension in the public, repeats what has already been rejected and is politically, in my opinion, not the most productive such doing. We'd be more excited if it weren't for this and not for the other one who's been foretold as the next. The situation, that the existing law is not modern, is not modern, is not so dramatic that we should now make a difference in this and that, as a result, we should be able to separate either political forces or our public. The choice of time to propose these changes does not seem appropriate. It seems as if we are living in a social vacuum without knowing what are the real social, political, economic, spiritual and other roads in Slovenia today. There is no real reason for anyone to hope that the law as proposed will be adopted. It is not clear why we should, I would say, perpetuate this law, perhaps a third of us will come to our tables. However, we do not think that this law is null and void, this law has a whole range of good solutions that we would support, so if the stability of the social forces were slightly different in order to do so, it also has some bad points in our judgment and is, at least I think, inconsistent in not carrying out consistently what it has set itself. Perhaps the main weakness, at least political, is that it is written in a way that is forbidden. More or less, we can read what is not allowed, and in some ways it causes a reaction that cannot be exactly favored by the other sex. It is true that the government has mentioned that this area will be handled differently, that I do not know how the government can regulate it, that it can propose otherwise, that it cannot be regulated, and that it will probably have to be agreed with us in the National Assembly. If I repeat that we have not and will point out that, at the same time that we do not support this bill, we will not support the government, we will also oppose it, but we can say that we have come into a situation where some understand this rift as well as the yng yang principle as some hard and some softer variant, and we in the DesSUS Group simply think that we should put ourselves in a different topus; get out of this cesura in which we are now, and put ourselves on another foundation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the Hungarian national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u38	A nice greeting to the audience. The purpose of the law to ensure the separation of the State and the religious community on the one hand and the equality of the religious community on the other, is also my view in the law and I support it. The draft law provides for a legal regime of religious freedom, which, in accordance with the Slovenian constitutional regime, provides for constitutional, judicial practice in order to ensure religious freedom and its individual and collective enforcement, defines the religious community, allows the registration of the religious community and its geographical constituents, and further regulates the position of the Office for Religious Communities, which is to be reestablished by law and be the body of the Ministry of Public Administration. In addition, the proposal for a law should clearly lay down the rights and obligations of specially registered religious communities. I would also like to draw attention to the language component of religious life, for members of the national communities have the right to listen to worship in their own language. So I see no reason not to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Chapar! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities does not differ significantly from the first already proposed law from the same candidate that our parliamentary group did not support. The new bill does not bring about any systemic and substantive changes, except for a few minor corrections, and this, due to the comments of the legislative and legal service, has not fully taken these proposals into account and, in particular, incomprehensible and unacceptable, only introduces additional high fines. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are also opposed to the new draft law and will not support it because we believe that the whole concept of the bill is based on the wrong interpretation of the principle of religious freedom and the related principle of State separation from religious communities. We argue that the proposed law does not comply with the principles of democratic society. On the contrary, it is extremely unacceptable for a democratic state. Religious freedom is a constitutional right in our country and with no law does anyone have the right to violate, restrict or even threaten it. By reference to the separation of the State from the religious communities, the proposal for this law is mainly applied by excluding religious communities from public life in extremely restrictive form. Solutions in those provisions radically restrict the functioning of religious communities, are inadequate, are really unfounded and are contrary to our Constitution and ratified international treaties. Nor are the provisions comparable to those in other countries of the European Community. We stress that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also lays down the principle of State separation from religious communities, the principle of equality of the religious community and the principle of their freedom of action. It is therefore a fundamental human right when it is recognised by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and by a number of international treaties and declarations of human rights which bind Slovenia. The bill, however, has a negative impact on the rights already acquired and is, in most cases, even more restrictive than the former Yugoslav legislation. The foundation of our democratic system should be respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the creation of a guarantee for their realization. Among these rights is religious freedom, which builds on democracy into mutual tolerance and understanding of people with different beliefs. The proposed law denies any cooperation between equal partners, the country on the one hand and the religious communities on the other, and does not define religious communities as generally beneficial organisations that play an important positive role in public life. It is incomprehensible why we should not seek to involve religious communities and countries in areas that are for the benefit of people and society, both in the fields of culture, education, education, solidarity, charities and other activities in the field of the social state. The proposed law does not guarantee all of this, but it pushes Slovenia to the extreme edge of countries with extremely unfriendly and religious communities with impatient models of separation from religious communities. The whole concept of the proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities is wrong in our belief. We argue even that it makes the situation of religious communities worse and that it is not in accordance with religious freedom and the principles of the social and legal state. The bill does not increase religious freedom, but actually reduces it, so we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you. Ambassador Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u42	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear fellows and fellows! All those who have already explained the views of your parliamentary groups, thank you very much for the highlights. I was previously told that I had a Samaritan language, so I took it. Well, I'll tell you that right now this crusade I've been listening to, I'm not gonna take it, I'm gonna stay with mine. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will vote against the negative decision, against the negative proposal of the decision of the Committee on Internal Policy, and, of course, we will support the law on religious freedom and religious communities. Indeed, the history of these relations in Slovenia is quite complex. In fact, since 1946, the system has been formed, most strongly in 1952, as the believer left school, and then in 1953, when the first law on the relationship between the State and the religious communities was written down, and there in 70 years when something was repaired and then repaired in 1992. Today it is just as it is, and I also think that this new law, which comes from the government proposal, although of course it is written by very neutral persons, is actually more of a picture of the situation in the late 1980s than anything new. Daily life brings us many interesting things, and certainly, if not what we call Europeanism, but at least experience of how this was regulated in Europe. This is often the way Hungary sets a pattern for us, although only cream is always taken from this goulash, and again Italy and again only cream is collected. The church in Slovenia, because it is essentially about, in the proposal of the government only the Roman Catholic Church Act in Slovenia, and everyone else should watch something, of course, would pick up all these creams, such as those collected in other countries. It's legitimate and it's okay. Everyone wants a good, comfortable, carefree and happy life. But it is very difficult to talk about this separation of the public about liberal democracy. We are trying in every way to ensure that the believers of all religious communities in Slovenia, those who are already, and those who are yet to be treated equally. In order to have the same freedom; in order to be smaller, if they were not already completely equal, to have a positive attitude towards them, so that they would in some way be positively privileged and not deprived. All of this has been taken into account in the formation of this law. And those stories about fines are, of course, fines for all those from the country who would intervene in religious communities and their actions that would abuse their symbols, their rituals, their people. These fines are not intended for religious communities, and so it is written down if we take a good look. However, if we want to go through the Crusade in any way, then we will all be imputed negatively, realizing that some will look at this law, and it is spoken of in this way. To this end, the power of one religious community over another has been demonstrated by daily events. I'm not going to go through all the stuff we read in the newspapers right now, but you probably know how some of the dedicated people in one community treat people in other communities. I'm gonna end up because I'm being chased by time, but it's me. Time is on our side, and here with Mr Rezman, who spoke earlier about the appropriateness of the moment, I actually agree the most. This marriage will probably not fail for the last time, but in the end, what happens when someone falls more than once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you. Ambassador Miran Potrč will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Good day to you all! The government and the parliamentary majority are proposing that we reject the law. We will not do that in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group. For we all know that the coalition will reject it in order to adopt a government proposal for a law without a serious debate and a confrontation of opinions. The debate so far on the situation and rights of religious communities has not cleared up many issues. We have also organised one such debate with respectable participation by the Social Democrats. Lawyers, sociologists, religionologists, between citizens and citizens, among believers of different churches, among believers and nonbelievers, there are still very different views and approaches on many issues. Therefore, it is not easy to say that Gulic’s marriage is bad and unacceptable, restrictive and unconstitutional to religious communities, so let us reject it. No, ladies and gentlemen, things aren't that simple! If we are sensitive to this, but for all citizens and citizens, important topics have been approached by such bureaucratic, political demagogic and dogmatic topics, solutions will not eliminate differences, but will only deepen them. Only some government parties, the Office for Religious Communities and the highest representatives of the church hierarchy, particularly the Roman Catholic Church, advocate government law. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Religious Communities - and above all the religious communities - has been going on for a long time because religious freedom has not been cut to anyone - not only is it important for the larger or largest religious community in Slovenia, but it is the same or especially for the smaller religious communities that are not truly equal. Not only is it important for believers but it is also important for unbelievers, for no one can be privileged at the expense of others. Since there is no time for a more serious analysis of the problems dealt with by laws, I should mention only two sets of issues. Firstly, in the Group of Social Democrats, it was precisely because of the debate on these laws that we ordered a specific public opinion survey in which 641 respondents were interviewed in April. The essence of its results is a large division, practically on all issues. Here are some such opinions: more than two-thirds of those polled believe that a constitutional provision on the separation of State and religious communities and equality of religious communities is being violated, not for the benefit of the State. A number of 85% of respondents advocate the view that religious communities are a private matter and should play their part in private life in particular. 58% versus 33% opposes co-financing of religious communities from the account. As many as 83% of them believe that religious communities should also pay taxes on their property. And for unconditional religious care in the police and military there are only about 40% of the respondents. I'm not saying we have to adjust the content of the law to the polls. However, we must respect the distribution of opinions, which requires our careful assessment. And second. In all the debate so far, reference to the Vatican Agreement has often been made, and I say that it is very unilateral and incorrect. In his opinion, the Constitutional Court explicitly stated that this is compatible with the Constitution only if it is explained that the Catholic Church will respect it in its operation in the Republic of Slovenia, which is the Slovenian legal order. This applies specifically and also to the so-called mixed areas - education, culture, education, social and so on - so the content of the legislation with the Vatican agreement has decided only exceptionally, in all other things it does not bind us with anything and we must settle these issues independently. And these are all the reasons why we believe that the debates are still necessary and we will not adopt a proposal for a decision to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you. Ambassador Alojz Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u46	Dear President! The Honourable Government Representative! In short, I would like to present the position of New Slovenia, which is essentially what we have already pointed out here a few months ago, because the content of this law is completely identical to what we have already rejected in this National Assembly in Novi Slovenija and there is no reason for us to change our minds today. We are convinced that the law must meet at least three conditions, the first condition being that every law adopted by the National Assembly contributes to an unquestionably universal growth - as far as this law is concerned, so we could say to spiritual growth. Then that the law contributes to the principle of justice and equality before the Constitution. You have already warned me here, and yet once again, Article 7 of the Constitution defines, in addition to the separation of the State and the Church, the equality of action of religious communities and freedom of action. And another 41st article, which discusses the freedom to profess faith in private and public life and the right of parents to provide religious and moral education for their children, in accordance with their beliefs. This law that is before us today is contrary to these two articles. And the third principle of the law, if you want it, is the principle of subsidiarity, which means that the country leaves things to those lower levels that can be done instead of the country or often on behalf of the country. And religious communities here can be very successful in their work, both in social, cultural, school and other fields. If this law were adopted, religious communities and employees would be placed in an unequal position with other civil society organisations. The bill would gradually abolish the current method of carrying out religious spiritual care in the military and in the institutions for the passing of sentences and more. We believe that this withdrawal does not increase religious freedom and hold back international comparisons. The bill has also been prepared by the majority of the churches and religious communities, and we expect that the government proposal, which is in preparation and will shortly come to the National Assembly, will establish a normal and civilised state in this area, as it is appropriate for the state of Slovenia. The State and the Church are truly separate under our Constitution, which of course does not mean, as some of you understand, that this means an exclusion. The principle of separation does not state that the State would not support various church activities, nor does the principle of separation prohibit anywhere that the State would not facilitate the exercise of its religious values, nor is it regulated. The European Constitution also explicitly recognises the specific contribution of religious communities to the emergence of European cultural heritage and civilization, and the European Constitution provides for open, transparent and regular dialogue with religious communities. Such a law must also be adopted in this area in the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately we find in Novi Slovenija that some of you come only from the point of view of the relationship of the country: the Roman Catholic Church, so it is necessary to come out much wider. In the end, let me just finish by adding that it's not nice to talk in this place about those who are not here, and that's why they can't defend themselves. If we stop doing this, public research and polls in our society will be slightly different over time. We will therefore not support the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.05 minutes. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment. I would like to inform you that the debate is scheduled to take place for two hours and 40 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Comrade Booth, I'm going to ask you to step forward for the central pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. The government is proposing a law for consideration on the grounds that it estimates that in the previous 1992 law some areas have not been sufficiently regulated or that a number of things have happened during this period and other laws have been adopted, that development has taken place in certain areas and we estimate that the need for a new law or for these changes is in fact clear. In particular, I would like to draw attention to two areas that are more important in this law, one of which is the regulation of the cooperative's status changes, which has not been adequately regulated so far, or the regulation in the field of company law has been applied analogously, which is not appropriate, since it is of course a different type of legal person. We are talking here about the merger and division of cooperatives, and I would not go further into this part, because in fact the matter in the bill is regulated. Another important area that the law proposes to regulate differently is the area of audit. Indeed, at that time there has been a development of audit law and the law is complemented by these provisions, including in the purpose, content and method of joint audit. In fact, the purpose of the joint audit is to offset the risks arising from cooperatives, members and creditors due to the volatility of own capital and to the principle of non-professional performance in cooperative management and supervisory bodies, we continue to maintain the system that the audit is necessary to be carried out for at least two years and always at the time of the amendment of the President of the Board. It is important to note that cooperatives with non-separable assets referred to in Article 74 that cannot be transferred must be merged into a joint audit liaison that carries out the audit. The law then proposes a few minor changes compared to the existing law. I would point out that, in accordance with this proposal, the data kept in the directory shall be amended and supplemented in such a way as to ensure that the entries and extracts from the cooperative are made only once a year. The news is informing members about the operation of the cooperative and providing information, insight into business books, annual report, correspondence, in line with the development of this area in Slovenia. Then, the way in which decisions are taken in the general meeting of the cooperative and the decision-making centre is transferred to the members or their representatives and the deadline for the submission of the minutes of the general assembly is extended to the members of the cooperative from 5 to 10 days, it is also possible to make telephone, telegraph or other technical means of taking decisions, and the deadline for the production of the accounts is 3 months, so far it has been 2 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Aloise Sok, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Dear Secretary, Secretary of State and Representative of the Government! You received the report together with the content of the law, it is quite extensive and some of this report was presented by the Secretary of State, so I will not repeat it. I may stop only with what has been the most public in the debate on the proposal for amendments to the Committee, the members of the proposed supplement proposed by the Joint Association of Slovenia, namely Article 1 of the bill, which would also allow cooperatives to benefit from State aid under the same conditions as economic associations that are legal entities. Indeed, following the current state aid regime in the Republic of Slovenia alone, it is not only for cooperatives but only for economic companies. In the debate, the amendment's proposers broadly justified the reasons why the current distinction between economic operators in granting State aid according to the legal form was unfounded, since the European Union rules regulate State aid to undertakings, i.e. neutral in terms of legal form. In the opinion of the proposer of the amendment, it is also contrary to the letter and the spirit of the Constitutional Act of the European Union that certain economic operators, in this case cooperatives, are, because of their legal organisation, although they fulfil all other substantive conditions for certain State aid excluded from a certain State aid scheme. With regard to this dilemma and the proposed supplement, the government representative explained that the government does not support this proposal because it considers that the proposed law is not an appropriate place to address this issue. In this regard, the legal representative added that the granting of State aid is systematically regulated by the rescue and restructuring aid law, which also regulates the purpose, the type of State aid, the criteria and procedures and the way in which budgetary resources are provided for the purposes of aid to companies in difficulty. In addition, it recalled that it had already been attempted to implement such a solution for cooperatives in 2002, but it had already prevailed in the view that it was not possible to even companies and cooperatives. In view of the above, the proposed solution can, in the view of the legislative and legal service, be regarded from a systemic point of view as incomplete or under-thinking. However, despite these arguments, the majority of the members of the Committee felt that a non-new dilemma should finally be overcome on which law would be more appropriate to regulate the issue of granting State aid to cooperatives, since otherwise cooperatives would continue to be in an unequal position with companies in this area. As a result, the majority of the members of the Committee have also adopted the amendment proposed by the cooperative association to Article 1 of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The current cooperative law was passed in 1992 and amended only once, that is, in 1993. Somehow we could divide the importance of this law into two very important components. The first is one which regulates the status transformation of cooperatives and can become a cooperative in four ways. First, by cross-section, second by division, third by division and fourth by delimitation. What an individual matter means, I believe you've read the explanation for the marriage. The law itself ensures the up-to-date collection of the data of members and the maintenance of the directory of members, guarantees the right of members to information and ensures compliance with the accounting rules comparable to those governing the company. We could say a little late, but the injustice is certainly not on the side of cooperative leadership and on the side of cooperative members, but mainly on the government of the Republic of Slovenia, because we know that we have passed the law on companies almost to the letter of n and the law on companies is the one that sets accounting standards. This law, like many of the laws we have met in this national assembly, is probably from - or I am sure from other areas - the euro is being introduced. I myself think that the wisdom of the government will be demonstrated in making one law that will introduce the euro before 1.1.2007 and will make the introduction of the euro complex, but not that we will regulate it in a partial way, according to individual laws. As far as the legal and legislative service is concerned, we must say that the highest attention or consideration has been given to Article 4, namely, that the register should be provided with any changes concerning membership by the end of the first month of the calendar year. As the Legal and Legislative Service has mentioned, I must say that we have also joined this opinion in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, in order to re-examine the views of certain principles enshrined in the Judicial Registry Act - here I am thinking mainly of the principles of the public register, the principles of confidence in the data contained in it, and the principle of the legal effect of the files. As already the speaker, the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture has said that the most attention on the Committee itself has been given to Article 1 of the Act and I must say that in the Slovenian National Party we are pleased that cooperatives now have the opportunity to compete for State aid as an economic company, since this regime has been regulated discriminatoryly. Of course, this option of competition does not yet mean that cooperatives will actually compete to receive state resources. In my opinion or in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this is an additional obligation on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to treat cooperatives equally as economic societies when it comes to granting State aid, as this law allows them to do so by means of an amendment adopted on the home labour body. I will be very interested in monitoring or monitoring the fact in the Slovenian National Party as to how this state aid will then be granted. In the Slovenian National Party, we will adopt or attach a bill, but we will, of course, monitor two issues: the first is the allocation of the funds I have mentioned, and the second is that there will be no need to provide additional budgetary resources. I must say that we are very happy or we will be happy to monitor the new preparation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the views of the Hungarian national community. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All present once again, just a greeting. The marriage material on cooperatives, in my view, is a very, very difficult and important matter, because without cooperatives there is no agriculture. The draft law ensures the up-to-date collection of the data of members and the management of the directory of members, ensures the right of members to information, ensures compliance with the accounting rules of comparable laws governing companies, enables the status of the transformation of cooperatives and legal arrangements and regulates the joint audit taking into account the development of audit law. They also harmonise criminal provisions with the provisions of the Offences Act. It does not refer to State aid to cooperatives that need it. European Community law governs state aid to undertakings, i.e. neutral in view of the different legal forms in which economic operators can be organised under the rules of each Member State. Therefore, in our view, the prior exclusion of cooperatives from individual State aid schemes by reason of a cooperative legal organisation is contrary to the letter and the spirit of the corresponding provision of the Constitutional Treaty of the European Community, in which Article 87 of the Treaty establishing the European Community applies directly. The same access for companies and cooperatives to state aid is consistent with the protection of competition and logically also stems from policies and efforts to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and ensures equal starting opportunities. Therefore, it is justified in the cooperative law as a parent law governing the situation of cooperatives on the market to write down the principle that cooperatives would be explicitly granted equal access to State aid or a situation which would not be less favourable in terms of eligibility to State aid than that of companies. Such guidance is also based on a number of recommendations and other acts adopted by international organisations. Let us mention just four: UN General Assembly Resolution No 56114 on cooperatives in social development of 2001; Recommendation No 193 of the International Labour Organisation on the promotion of cooperatives of 2002; Council Regulation No 1435/2003 of the European Community on the Statute of the European Cooperation and Final Report of the Commission of the European Community on the promotion of cooperatives of 2004. I believe that with this information we have a legitimate hope that this provision on aid to cooperatives will also be present in our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u55	Ambassador Bojan Rugelj will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, including representatives of the Ministry! From a substantive point of view, the provisions of the cooperative law are classified into two rounded content sets. The first part is the provisions of a legal status which apply to all cooperatives and regulate the establishment of membership, bodies and property of cooperatives, termination of cooperatives, cooperatives and joint audit. The other part of the law, however, includes provisions governing the cooperation of cooperatives in the property transformation of certain undertakings and the return of maintained cooperative property, including transitional provisions on assets held by cooperatives in force, and on the harmonisation, organisation and operation of existing cooperatives and cooperatives with the provisions of the law. The arrangements in the proposal for a cooperative law follow analogously the regulation in the field of company law, as regulated by the national law on the basis of European rules. The law ensures the personal collection of the data of members and the management of the directory of members, guarantees the right of members to information, ensures compliance with the accounting rules of comparable laws governing companies, enables the status of the transformation of cooperatives and legal organisation changes and regulates the joint audit, taking into account the development of audit law, and aligns criminal provisions with the provisions of the law on offences. In view of the above, the broader content sets of amendments and the completion of the cooperative law proposal are, in particular, cooperatives' balance sheet law: according to the provisions of the GAG, the annual reports for cooperatives, the statusal transformation of cooperatives: arrangements for merger, division and changes in the legal form; joint audits: arrangements for the purpose, content and method of joint audit, comparable to those in other countries. The proposed amendments to the law are also intended to ensure that provisions on offences are regulated in accordance with the new law on offences. In view of these meaningful solutions to the problem of cooperatives and in view of the coherence of the envisaged solutions with European legislation, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the amendment of the cooperative law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings also to the representative and representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support amendments and additions to the cooperative law, together with the amendments adopted on the Committee. We agree that the regulation of the statusal transformation of cooperatives and the modification of the legal organisation of cooperatives after 10 years and several more years are certainly necessary. It is right that the composition and adoption of the annual report should be regulated as is the case for companies, the transparency of the business increases and also regulates the publicity of the annual reports of cooperatives. The law shall be improved and supplemented by information on the members kept in the directory and shall lay down the obligation to enter changes in membership of the register, which is something normal and lifelike once a year. The law is also complemented by provisions on the purpose, content and method of joint audit. Today, perhaps nothing has been said about the meaning of cooperatives from this city. The cooperatives are an extremely important economic entity in Slovenia, because we have 509, 505 registered in Slovenia, and they are distinctly domestically owned by Slovenia alone, so this is one of the pillars of Slovenia in this area. Most cooperatives in the majority are, as we all think and know, agricultural, including forestry, crafts, residential and retail trade, including publishing, transport, tourism, business, health, even cultural and sports. Most of them are small, agricultural, which 393 are, but they employ more than 3,400 people and have more than 10,000 members, cooperatives and contractors. Therefore, we thought it was extremely important for us in the LDS Club to support the amendment and to supplement Article 1 which, in difficult and acute economic situations, enables them to work more easily and to survive, since we believe that the current regime under which certain State aid schemes were not accessible to cooperatives is highly discriminatory and favouritism for economic companies. It is even the opinion that the distinction between economic operators and the granting of State aid according to the legal form is unfounded, since the rules of the European Community regulate State aid to undertakings. So we are not talking about a certain and specific legal form. In the LDS, we will conclude, as I see most in the National Assembly and I am pleased, that the law would support it, because in this area, for the most part, it would be insignificant, but for the rural and agricultural sectors, we would support it, because, last but not least, we estimate that this law could go into one of those so-called reform laws, which has been talked about in Slovenia a lot lately, so we rightly expect it to receive majority support. In the LDS Club, we also remain faithful to the principle that we have been talking about in Slovenia, especially in our species, recently, about a topic that is extremely important for rural people, for many small and small people, and that is why you can understand us at this point if we say that we are giving people an advantage over profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the views of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. And once again a nice greeting on behalf of the Social Democrats. The proposal for a cooperative law governs the status of the transformation of cooperatives into other legal persons or the integration of other legal persons into cooperatives. Thus, cooperatives will be able to join, share or join with another legal person, either an economic society, an economic interest association or even a European cooperative. Many issues have been raised by the efforts of the Association of Slovenia to allow cooperatives to run for aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. In doing so, we must be aware that agriculture is subject to specific rules regarding State aid and, in other areas, particularly in the field of economy, to general rules. In doing so, however, we would like to point out the inappropriateness of the content of the aid law for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty, since the rules or conditions of our law are significantly different from those of the European Union. Indeed, we do not foresee exceptions that can be negotiated directly with the European Commission, since the Law on Aid to Enterprises in difficulty provides for exceptions in a way that significantly reduces the possibility of comprehensive and effective aid to businesses in restructuring. The law also tightens the conditions for repayment of loans which are intended for the company’s liquidity problems and, last but not least, the restructuring programme does not contain, and the restructuring programme is no longer a mandatory content for granting aid. All of this suggests that the proposed law on aid to firms in difficulty is not aware of the fact that we can apply for assistance in Europe, especially when it comes to social assistance. And aid and exemptions can be applied if it is helping to promote economic development in areas where living levels are extremely low or where unemployment is high. The fact is that cooperatives are usually located in areas where living levels are low and unemployment is high. Therefore, we will follow the desire of the Association of Slovenia to maintain the text of the law as adopted on the Committee and we will oppose the SDS amendment, which deletes this possibility, because we believe that the possibility of running cooperatives on calls to help companies in difficulty will speed up the preparation of more appropriate solutions, as we find that, in fact, no company in Slovenia actually meets the conditions for obtaining these funds at all. So we certainly need some additional reason to adapt these conditions to the actual situation in Slovenia. We are also proposing an amendment following the position of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services on deadlines for reporting. We are aware that if we really want to achieve exceptions to aid companies and if the cooperatives law is to be adopted in the same form as it was on the committee, including exemptions for cooperatives, then we need to have adequate data to do so, which must be available at the moment that they are available from other companies. We would also like to make it possible in this segment to obtain accurate data as soon as possible, which will allow the granting of aid later both to cooperatives and to companies under more uniform and effective conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you. Ambassador Alojz Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thanks again for saying that. We all know the importance of the partnership, especially in the area of agriculture, for the survival of Slovenian peasants, how Krek envisioned the operation of society and how these cooperatives worked. It is true, though, that after World War II, this partnership was understood differently and that cooperatives received a negative connotation and that this negative connotation of cooperatives has been maintained for some time now. In New Slovenia, we know that some European countries do not have cooperative laws, such as Denmark, and yet this country has the largest cooperatives in the European scale. It is the fact that the Constitution states that people can unite and then, on the basis of this constitutional right, people join cooperatives, they make rules more or less their own, and the country collects taxes from them, as it does from any other economic society. We have a law on cooperatives in force. This last one was written in 1992. It has not been changed since then, although it would necessarily need to be changed, since cooperatives received considerable assets during the previous period of the Slovenian transition. Many of these assets have become such that they are no longer sold off today, and many have also managed this property very well and are still operating in this way today. This change that is ahead of us is necessary, and it is still necessary to change the law on association further. We are convinced in New Slovenia that this year. This law, which is before us, wants to update the collection of the data of members and the management of the directory of members, then update the provision of the rights of members to information, the functioning of the cooperative, which is very important and urgent. This law then introduces accounting standards under the company law, solves audit issues in accordance with the new auditing standards. It then regulates the legal transformation of cooperatives and coordinates certain provisions with the Act on Offences. The law itself was not a call for candidates of some amendments, but I said in the presentation of the Committee's position that we had in fact abstained most at the time of Article 1 and the amendment transmitted by the Association of Slovenia. And that's how cooperatives who get in trouble help. This dilemma is not new; this dilemma began to revolve around and debate in the National Assembly as early as 2002. Despite a number of different opinions, the Committee felt that this area should be regulated in some way and that, under certain conditions, cooperatives were justified under Article 1 of the cooperative law. In New Slovenia we have supported such a concept of law and we intend to support it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. By the way, I warmly welcome the visitors and visitors who have joined us on the stand in the meantime. And I'm giving the word to Mr. Mag. Kramberger to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The applicable cooperative law has certain shortcomings. The proposal for a new law removes you and consequently ensures that cooperatives function normally. One of the major problems of the current regime is that in practice there are legal gaps that cannot be resolved by general reference to the regulation of companies, as this regime does not take account of certain specificities of cooperatives, so the proposal further regulates the protection of members and creditors of cooperatives and the representation of cooperatives in legal traffic. At the same time, the law is in line with certain provisions of the Act on Offences. The draft law thus regulates the balance-sheet law and the status of the cooperative transformation of the area of joint audit and, by special provision, governs the registration of the founders of the cooperative and the registration of subsequent amendments on membership in the register of the court. In the presentation, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to stress this position in particular the amendment adopted by Article 1 adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We have received a supplement to Article 1 which provides that cooperatives are entitled to State aid under the same conditions as companies and legal persons. In our Group of Members, we believe that this is a very important article and that the supplement proposed by the Joint Liaison Group is good and necessary. This opinion, of course, means that we will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which wishes to limit paragraph 1 of Article 1 which wishes to delete this paragraph of Article 1 again. It is our belief that a supplement to Article 1 has been adopted in accordance with the other direction of the law in force. In Article 1, the applicant has already made it very clear that the country is promoting the environment to adapt to the principles of the functioning of the common market. The question is how does the State ensure the implementation of this provision in reality. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that there is nothing wrong with the law explicitly stipulating that cooperatives are entitled to state aid under the same conditions as companies. This is certainly not justified by the whole range of arguments, the distinction between economic operators in granting State aid according to the legal form, as European Community rules therefore regulate State aid to undertakings in a neutral manner in the light of the legal form. In our parliamentary group, as we say, we believe that it is necessary to ensure equal opportunities for all economic operators to perform and compete. The continuation of the current situation, when cooperatives are excluded from individual state aid schemes, would have several negative consequences, we believe. In any event, such a situation reduces the competitiveness and attractiveness of the cooperative organisational form even in cases where, in the light of specific circumstances, it would be possible to apply entrepreneurial ideas or to resolve individual economic and social issues in a cooperative organisational form more effectively at lower costs or greater benefits than other non-cooperating forms of organising companies. The international legal bases have already been mentioned. At least four legal bases include international institutions, from the UN General Assembly to the Council of Europe and also the European Commission, which is the legal basis where these economic operators can be treated equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u65	We are moving on to the debate on the two open articles and the two amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of 21.4.2006, which I am putting to the debate the first article and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to give an opinion on Article 1, which again excludes cooperatives from the system that is or is supposed to be in force in Slovenia, and I certainly do not think this amendment makes sense and is certainly not in favour of Slovenian agriculture, or if I give another comparison to ladies, it is certainly not submitted in accordance with the principle of a healthy farm of logic. In the debate on the parental committee, it was very clear that we want capable competing cooperatives and that it is therefore right that they are uniform in their operation and business. I am also coming from an area that is very agriculturalally important and where we are also monitoring all the problems of cooperatives, from those who are successful to those who are less successful, and that this law, which is envisaged and prepared, is certainly much help to a better, more competitive operation of cooperatives, and that this article, which is being deleted again, places cooperatives in an uncompetitive position, does not equate them with other economic companies and it is almost incomprehensible to me that such an amendment is being tabled again, in view of the debate in the parent committee, where we have taken great pleasure in the fact that the members and members of the National Party or parties of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party have supported the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which guarantees equality, equality in operation also to cooperatives, and that it is then very clearly stated in article 22 that the cooperative can carry out all activities under the same conditions as the economic sector of competition, and that State aid would take this right to cooperatives. I do not think that this amendment can be supported because, once again, cooperatives do not put themselves in the same position, it reduces their competitiveness and, above all, we are moving away from those countries that have cooperatives equal to other companies or even in some of these cooperatives have a better position than in Italy and similar, and that this will even contribute to our cooperatives today starting to think about the transformation and organisation and establishment of European cooperatives, established in one of the other European countries. I am sure that this amendment is bad for Slovenian agriculture, and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. We are therefore in the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I've got four more applications on my list. Let me read them first. Ambassador Kristian Janc, followed by Ambassador Fari Horvath, followed by Janko Weber, and followed by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker! Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I cannot support this amendment for a simple reason, because the Slovenian farmer has never been comfortable in these countries of previous governments, and apparently not the most pink today. I am aware that the partnership in Slovenia and, of course, these cooperatives, which cover the area of agriculture, are extremely important for the existence, but not only of the Slovenian farmer, but also of the countryside, the preservation of landscapes, an important mission connected in such or other ways in the Slovenian space. Without such cooperatives, which are, for the most part, successful in the Slovenian space, Slovenian farmers would be significantly less than I would not say what a Slovenian landscape would be, thanks to such cooperatives as it is today. I am therefore surprised by the thinking of some colleagues that, however, in order to put cooperatives in an unequal position for economic operators, as some and others are entering the market, they are fighting in this harsh market, which is sometimes difficult even to access to these cooperatives to compete with their products or other products on the market, to reduce this basic, minimum support that they may receive from such and other State aid would simply be unacceptable, unfair and unequal the position of these cooperatives on the Slovenian market as well as the European market. That is why I believe that he will come to this Parliament and will also prevail in the Government of reason to allow them to continue working on this mission, which is of exceptional importance in the Slovenian field, and thus to keep minimally the area of agriculture that Slovenian cooperatives in the field of agriculture associate and need. Let us let the cooperatives carry out this mission, let us give the opportunity that it will be able to receive from the country with certain good programmes additional support and thus help the Slovenian farmer, Slovenian farmer, somehow indirectly, that conditions will not deteriorate, because they are no longer pink today and there are fewer farmers on the Slovenian list every year in Slovenia. I believe that we will not support this amendment to support those who grant State aid under equal conditions to economic companies and also to Slovenian cooperatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Ferry Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the representative of the government! I will support the amendment, but I support the solution contained in the amended bill, in the text of the cooperatives are entitled to state aid under the same conditions as companies that are legal entities. In support of such a position and conduct, I believe that the adoption of the amendment would actually constitute a discriminatory attitude towards cooperatives and, in general, agricultural activities. Another time. The implementation of this Article or this text on equal access to aid will, I suppose, be carried out in accordance with the rules applicable to the granting of State aid to other economic operators. I do not see any contradiction here with the law that specifically regulates the granting of economic aid. If necessary, that law can be supplemented. And the next argument, which is extremely important, is a regional aspect. As a rule, in less developed areas, the share of agriculture and society plays a more important role. This also applies to the region from which I come with my colleague Pozsončeva and my colleague Horvat and Juban and Dr Slavinec. That is why we have also agreed in the framework of the Pomura Parliamentary Club that we will unitedly support such a solution and oppose the amendment, irrespective of the clientele or membership of the various parliamentary groups. After all, this is also in line with the fact that one of the priorities of policy, both budgetary and economic development, is the European Union's very coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. When we talk about whether cooperatives should be able to obtain additional funds for their restructuring or not, it is imperative, under the law allowing companies to restructure, that the existing law allowing such aid does not take account of the actual situation in Slovenia, but, above all, does not take account of the actual situation in rural areas or areas where there is a very high level of unemployment and where the standard of living is usually lower than in more developed and urban centres. Thus, in fact, none of the companies in Slovenia today fulfils the conditions for obtaining this aid. Of course, this is why businesses in rural areas are shutting down, primarily in rural areas. One way to change this trend is to maintain the possibility of cooperatives obtaining this aid in this cooperative law, because I think we will open the way for the next negotiations with the Ministry of Economy to listen to the countryside, to listen to economic societies and rural cooperatives, to better shape their business policy and to actually survive in this common European market. This common European market is certainly one of the additional elements that we are particularly sensitive to this issue, because the European Union allows exceptions to both companies and cooperatives, so that, of course, these aids are granted, if they are of course social aid and, as I have already said, aid aimed at areas where living levels are low and where unemployment is high. So let us become a real partner in the European Union in a way that we employ these exceptions, because the fact is that life is at one Schengen border, and if I take here as an example also of Kočevsko, where we face extraordinary problems, how to preserve life, especially at the border, then this is one of the options where we can try to phase out this problem even through this law. The same cooperative law does not yet allow or prescribe the form of such aid, but it does enable you to obtain such assistance. And I suppose that if cooperatives succeed in this and if they are concerned enough, the Ministry of Economy will, of course, change its extremely negative attitude towards firms in difficulty. And the concerns that I have also had about whether it does not mean equalising cooperatives with economic companies and the difficulties of cooperatives in those exceptions that they already have, namely, the area of agriculture and the fact that professional services and experts in this area also ensure that, if cooperatives are aligned with economic companies, I really do not see any reason why they would not retain this discipline adopted on the Committee in law and allow cooperatives to participate in these calls for additional State aid to firms in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you. I invite Member Marjetko Uhan to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Well greeted all present, including on the balcony accompanying today's novelty of the law. The amendment to Article 1 which says that cooperatives are also eligible for state aid, we have already supported the parent work body in Novi Slovenija and we think it makes sense. The cooperatives are also engaged in economic activity on the market, in the common European market, and it seems to me that they would not be eligible for aid if they were in difficulty. I believe that special rules will be adopted, as they are for companies, so that they will not just share the aid, but, in fact, if they find themselves in trouble for restructuring and so on. The demand for alignment in these segments with other companies is not new, as we have heard since 2002. If this has not been resolved in the Law on Aid to Economic Companies in Trouble, it is only right that this should be resolved today in the home law when it comes to the cooperative law. We believe that this will also reveal the policy attitude towards society, which has played an important role in the past. It would be good if the cooperatives would also strengthen part of this role, as well as the mission they had in the past, and therefore it seems justified for us to remain this amendment to Article 1 in the law, so in New Slovenia we will not support the SDS amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Rugle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the problems of cooperatives, especially farmers' cooperatives, which are related to our rural, agriculture and other similar things, so we are also concerned and the government is also concerned that one complex solution needs to be found, because we know that cooperatives are very many species, not just farmers, so that we can list maybe 20 or 30 types of cooperatives that need to be treated differently. I don't see the reason why we're doing this here, because it would be included in all of this and the case is too under-analysed. In addition, of course, all the debaters or the majority, you have previously stressed how cooperatives are similar to economic companies, so it is the place to solve the problem elsewhere, that is, where the problem of companies is solved, that is the law on aid to companies in difficulty. Why didn't it get out there in the past, I don't know, but I think it'll work out for sure. At the very least, it is necessary to seek some kind of compromise with the Ministry of the Economy, because this is an area of the economy, so I think it is premature today and that this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party is correct and there is no need to resolve these matters here. But we are talking about the need to save them and we will save them, and the government is aware of that, so I would suggest that when you vote, maybe you take this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you. The last to be reported is Member Janez Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment, as I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members here on this floor, and the Group of Members will not support it. The partnership in Slovenia is an important economic factor, with more than 500 cooperatives registered. They employ these cooperatives, I think about 5,000 people, and they do more than 130 billion traffic a year. This is an important factor in the economy mainly in areas less developed. This has already been said to colleagues in their discussions. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't write that in this law. If the government, as has been repeatedly said here, has detected this problem and then the government can also determine and amend the relevant other laws if this solution is not sufficient here in this law. This problem has not been the case since yesterday, we have known this for a long time, and we are always meeting this ball somehow between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy. At least, which surprises me, the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which opposes this. It does not oppose the government, but opposes, I have an opinion in hand, it opposes the Ministry of Agriculture, it does not rule as such. Several cases in the Slovenian space were in the past when cooperatives wanted to run for funds. But simply because they are not companies, they were not successful or could not run at all. This is, for example, the case of a successful cooperative in Gorenjska. This cooperative has more than 4 billion tolls of revenue, employs 130 workers and cannot run for other public tenders, such as a tender to increase the competitiveness of small, medium and large enterprises. It's discrimination we can't allow here in this room. As I say, I will not personally support this law or this amendment. But I'm going to support the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. The dilemma is not new. As has been said many times, we have already met with this issue in this national assembly. I must say here that at the time it was somehow said that this would try to be resolved in the context of the amendment of the cooperative law. It is true that this opinion, which we have received from Members of the Ministry of Agriculture, is based on the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, that this is the opinion of the Government, that the purpose of society is not to create profits, profits, but that cooperatives operate on different criteria and in a different way. Nevertheless, this dilemma is how to help cooperatives in difficulty was current, and once again I say that despite the differing opinion of government representatives and the legal and legislative service, most members of the committee felt that it would be good to write this principle into this amendment of the cooperative law, but that it is probably not enough to write it down. That is why we have somehow tried to complement this issue by allowing the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, which we certainly cannot bypass in this matter, to say that we would have the opportunity to regulate this area by means of a sub-legislative act, followed by the Government's opinion that it is the substance of such content, such legal arrangements, that it does not fall within a sub-legislative act, but must be precisely defined in the law. In New Slovenia, we believe that, on the basis of such a established law, it is likely that the aid law will have to be amended a little bit further to help companies in difficulty and accurately write those criteria and conditions under which certain cooperatives are entitled to this assistance, because the cooperative palette is of course very broad. Today, when we discuss this, we mostly have agricultural cooperatives in mind, because these are the most common and the biggest problems in this area. It is important to know that there are also many other cooperatives and that consideration is also given to establishing cooperatives in some new areas that we do not know until now, for example in the field of health and elsewhere. I am sure that it is necessary today, as the Committee has adopted this matter, to adopt this matter in the National Assembly and then to actually approach it and see whether then the law on the granting of this aid makes this matter possible. If not, in which segments it would probably be necessary to amend this law in order to make what we adopt operational. Otherwise, we may be speaking to Slovenian partners today something that will not be possible in the future even in an appropriate way. When we adopt such proposals, we must be aware that the financial possibilities of this country are limited and that it can always be helped within the framework of what is possible. We will also work for such a solution in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvat is also a member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker! Dear Members and Members, distinguished guests on the balcony! Although you already know my position on the amendment under consideration, it was presented by the president of the Pomurski MPs club by his colleague, Ferri Horvat. However, I would also like to believe why I approve of why I welcome the fact that we also incorporate the possibility of state aid into the amendment of the cooperative law to those cooperatives who are in difficulty. If we look at the basic cooperative law, we find the following in the first sentence. The cooperative shall be an organisation with an unspecified number of members, with a view to promoting the economic benefits of its members. So it's not a love activity, it's an economic benefit. The second sentence speaks of a cooperative being able to set up a company. This company could benefit from State aid under the State Aid Act to firms, companies in difficulty. As a result of this basic purpose, why do cooperatives, in particular agriculture, which is most likely to be established, I think it makes sense for us to incorporate into the amendment of the law, or there is an already built-in opportunity for cooperatives to receive state aid if they are in trouble. I am so sorry that I cannot support the amendment tabled by my colleagues from the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. Comrade Rugelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u84	I would point out once again that this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party does not mean that cooperatives would not be assisted. On the contrary, perhaps even more aid could come at the end of this agricultural cooperative. I tell you, there are so many kinds of cooperatives that if we do this, it will be possible - because it's already - out of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. However, I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Who wants a word? My friend Webber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. In this amendment to Article 15, we are talking about the cooperative providing data from the annual State Statistics reports to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services within three months of the end of the calendar year. The text of the law has so far been written within eight months of the end of the business year. I would like to draw attention to some very practical matters which, at least I hope, will follow this decision when we wrote in Article 1 that cooperatives have the same status in granting aid as companies. Much information on whether and under more favourable conditions aid will be granted will depend on whether we can also present and negotiate with the European Commission, in which areas this additional relief or assistance can be used and where this is not possible. The European Union is very clear about its rules on aid when we are talking about social assistance and when we are talking about places with a lower standard of living and, of course, greater unemployment. For all of this, data must be collected at the same time as for all companies. If companies have to submit this data three months after the end of the business year, cooperatives only eight months after the expiry of this deadline, of course one year will pass when we will not actually have this data collected, which will be the basis for these additional assistance to firms in difficulty and also for further assistance to cooperatives. It is therefore essential to harmonise the deadlines in which companies and cooperatives must submit their annual business reports. Let me add to this another fact that is enshrined in the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons. This law also provides for tax relief for companies established in regions where gross social product is lower than the Slovenian average. And if this is 15% lower, this development aid is possible even at 30%. However, if the gross social product in this region is even more lagging than 15% of the average, companies can even apply a 40% discount. In this case, too, it will be necessary to make a very precise calculation of the gross social product and, if we have this data in time and simultaneously available both from cooperatives and companies, we will also be able to apply this aid, which is not included in the restructuring aid law to firms in difficulty, but is included in the law on the income of legal persons and this law also provides for incentives to invest in development. This amendment will allow all those professional services and institutions that monitor this data to identify in a timely manner regions where businesses will be able to enforce these facilitations. If this data is not or will not be complete, it will be extremely difficult to apply these exceptions again in negotiations with the European Commission. In particular, this corporate income tax is aid to businesses and needs to be properly transferred to the European Union or to the European Union Commission, and only after confirming that it is indeed an area where we are solving social issues where we are solving a lot of unemployment, where we are dealing with very difficult, will I say, demographic conditions, we will be successful in Europe. However, if this is to be achieved, the data must be extremely well prepared and all those who will or will have the opportunity to defend these views must have adequate data at their disposal in a timely manner and, above all, we must be harmonised with each other. I am also concerned about the position of agriculture and the position of the economic sector, unless these two pillars are aligned, then we will fail in these negotiations with the European Commission or this process will be significantly more difficult. I hope to say that, to a large extent, it will not work if the government itself fails to unify on this issue. Thus today, in the National Assembly, we can give legal guidance in this cooperative law, where the government can then have data available in a timely manner and not least expect both from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture to harmonise each other's interests and that this harmonisation of interests will go in the direction that we can make exceptions to additional aid, but not that we will not enforce such assistance as was the position and practice of the current Ministry of the Economy, in particular the Ministry of Economy, which has proposed a law that actually makes this aid impossible. And this amendment, which has been tabled in this Article 15, is of course a good basis for us to use more favourable conditions mainly for European Union funds, and perhaps to compensate for the shortfall that has been shown by colleagues from the SDS Group that money is no longer available. The less we try to justify the necessary resources from the European Union, the more difficult we will be to allocate them from our budget. Therefore, once again, the call to harmonise the data and to act unitedly in the enforcement of important exceptions which Slovenia can certainly enforce within the European Union itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you. Do any other Members or Members wish to speak to the said Article 15 and the amendment? Comrade Rugelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u88	I'm the only one who'd fix the foreman. I was talking about money to help companies, I wasn't talking about these things, and so was he. But if we opened this, helping cooperatives now, like I said, would definitely run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you. Ambassador Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u90	In short, I would like to say that the Committee took note of this amendment, which was the proposal of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services and then, in the opinion of the government service, such an amendment on the Committee was rejected by reasoning that the cooperatives were subject to a special deadline of eight months instead of three months after the end of the calendar year. This is a conscious, different decision proposed by the government because of all these procedures that cooperatives must carry out when they submit a final report to the competent agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Weber is once again reported to the floor. Here you go. You're giving up? I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Booth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much. In fact, the government does not support the proposed solution because it considers that the time limit, in accordance with the rules applicable to the adoption, for example, of the annual report adopted by the general assembly is too short, so we think it is simply physically impossible. However, according to our assessment, it is assured that the needs of others will be met throughout the space, so that, for example, the data from the annual report can, of course, be made available within three months, those who will be available for statistics and so on. While only the annual report is adopted in a specific way, it cannot be carried out through the general assembly and simply within three months of the Government's assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you. This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today within the framework of the vote point or no later than 21:00 and 5 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - that's a second defensively proposed law on the business register of Slovenia. I would like to inform you that the total time of discussion is 55 minutes. I thank Mr Booth for his work so far. Between you and me, I welcome the Minister of Economy, Comrade Visiak. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The reason for the adoption of this proposal is mainly dual. First, an update of the already obsolete law, and secondly, it is important to simplify and reduce administrative barriers to keeping the register as well as to registering, in particular, independent entrepreneurs. Contental changes introduce a special primary register for independent entrepreneurs, individuals, within the business register and, of course, also the introduction of digital certificates, records of digital certificates of legitimate representatives of business register units. The draft law takes into account the situation in the management of administrative business registers in the Member States of the European Community, the envisaged direction of development in the European Community and the current and future ways and scope of the data from business registers in connection with new business technologies. Developments in the area of the management and interconnection of the business registers of the Member States of the European Community will go towards simplifying the business operations of business operators, which would also be enabled by the direct exchange of data between the business registers of individual countries. In addition, the new law also takes account of changes made to the provisions of the Company Act, which also gives a completely new role to the Business Register. For independent entrepreneurs, individuals, i.e. IJPES became the registry administrator on 1 June 2005. By entering a business register, therefore, an independent entrepreneur, an individual, also acquires legal capacity. This is an important novelty and also an important simplification. The law specified in the specific chapter the procedure for the registration of business entities for which registration also means registration. The business register becomes the primary register for a group of business entities. The main purpose and purpose of the new law is to continue with the establishment of a central, related, up-to-date, European comparable and recognised and computerised public base of all business entities established in the Republic of Slovenia, including companies from the association of the register and the business register. Since the findings so far on the basis of the requirements of the participating entities in the integration and multi-purpose use of data on business entities in the country in practice have shown that only from the so-called primary registers and records do not allow integration, the proposed novelty is to be incorporated and maintained by some new identifiers, such as the EMSO and the tax number. This will significantly increase the possibility of linking the data obtained from the different primary registers and public databases, according to the applicant. The update of the data in the business register of the bill proposal shall be ensured by the introduction of provisions obliging registrar authorities and other entities to make the data of the business register mandatory, since it is only in this way that the registration of business entities can be carried out. The principles of the law are based on the abolition of administrative procedures in several bodies and combines them through entry points with one authority, namely the IJPES, which, from 1.7.2005, also acts as the primary register for independent entrepreneurs of individuals, while simplifying transparency over legitimate representatives of business register units by introducing a register of digital certificates. The solutions proposed shall take into account the basic requirements and principles of registration law, such as the public, the uniformity of the register, the obligation of the file, credibility and confidence in the register. The main solutions to the draft law were based on electronic data exchange, as only if the technology of each registry does not allow the registration authority to exchange data electronically, and other forms are allowed, in short the rule is the exchange of data in electronic form. At the same time, this also means the phasing out of paper documentation and the introduction of electronic commerce between registrant authorities and ICPES, as well as between business operators or service users and ICPES. In addition, the law takes into account the solutions adopted in the context of the implementation of the VEM project: All in one place, e-registration method, from any VEM entry point or even from the headquarters of a future entrepreneur by means of an online registration application. An important novelty is the introduction of a register of digital certificates to simplify the verification process of legitimate representatives and their signatures and to establish a transparent functioning of business register units. The law represents an update and represents an important step towards simplifying and simplifying the business register in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-worker! The Committee considered the draft law at its 14th session, on 6 April 2006. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposals for amendments submitted by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the proposals for amendments to the Committee, which were drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or prepared by the expert services of the proposer, the Ministry of Economy, the Legal Services and the Economic Committee, and the proposal for an amendment to the Committee's amendment to the 6th Article proposed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the members of the Committee, representatives and representatives of the proposed legislative and legal service, the Chamber of Commerce, the Supreme Court and the Agency for Public Records and Services participated. Since the content of the debate is quite detailed and, according to my assessment, correctly summarised in the written report you have before you, I will not read it or comment further. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the debate at the Committee's meeting, the Committee adopted the amendments set out in the report and included in the amended draft law. Finally, in the event that a very large number of amendments have been proposed in the light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, I should like to express my satisfaction and, if you allow, also to commend the representatives and representatives of the proposed legislative and legal service, the Committee on the Economy and other interested institutions for their great cooperation and cooperation in the preparation of the amendments and thus the complementary draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the main proposal for a law on the Business Register of Slovenia. In our Group of Members, we believe that the Business Register represents the core central database of all registered entities of private, public and civil law in our territory. It means the primary register. This proposal shall update the collection of the necessary data, establish and identify the management, monitoring and recording of all stages of the procedure within the framework of a business entity. In doing so, we are thinking of registering and recording changes. In the context of the content of the update of the data, we find that their usefulness is also intended to be extended to the needs of state authorities, ministries, banks of Slovenia, public administrations and other users or organisations, namely Durs, Statistical Office of Slovenia, commercial banks and so on. We believe that this proposal will make it possible to make rational use of the so-called one place where it will be possible to look at the necessary records. In doing so, it is very important that the acquisition and transfer of data take place properly, at a high level of protection and protection. The essential changes introduced by this proposal are the maintenance of the primary register for independent entrepreneurs, individuals and the introduction of digital certificates in terms of simpler procedures, transparency of legal representatives and digital records. We are confident that the management of such a well-established business register will make it easier for entities to operate and allow for the interconnection and exchange of necessary data, competent, because development requires new business technologies that require dynamics, up-to-dateness, control, control and European comparability. In order to integrate all the new modern methodologies, it is necessary to introduce some new identifiers that will allow for better connectivity, greater transparency and easier use on the basis of data protection in their transmission. Of course, there are also appropriate sanctions for offenders. In short, we'll get an informationized publicly recognized database. The DeSUS Group supports the direction of positive solutions that offer a bit of registration law in terms of a mandatory uniform, credible, confidential and not least public document of the registry. Given the need for adjustment in time and space, we also need to be mobile in terms of electronic commerce, which today means a normal way. However, we must be aware that this method gradually eliminates the classical forms of paper documentation. In our parliamentary group, we assess and believe that it is necessary to ensure that all citizens and bodies are able to operate easily on the basis of harmonised informationally updated registers, records. Therefore, the proposed changes lead to the adaptation and updating of technologies that will make it easier to access or obtain relevant information. We believe that without a uniformly organised system of governance and registration there is no longer any possibility of current operation and utility. In view of the time dimension, however, we believe that the current and long-term process needs to be brought to a faster stage of implementation as soon as possible. On the basis of this, Members of the DeSUS will support the proposed and complementary proposal of the Business Register of Slovenia Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Rugelj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all, especially to the Minister of Economy - Mr Visiak and Mrs Avbelj. The Business Register of Slovenia is the central public database of all business entities in the country carrying out any profitable or non-profit activity. In the business register of Slovenia, there are thus more than 140,000 business entities. For each business entity, data shall be provided for its identification, establishment data, legal organisation form, ownership and activities carried out by the business entity. The main purpose and purpose of the new law is to continue to establish a medium-term, up-to-date, European comparable and recognised and well-informed public database on all business entities established in the Republic of Slovenia. Data on business entities maintained in the business register of Slovenia, with the exception of data on independent entrepreneurs, are obtained by IJPES - the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services - from individual registrar authorities where business entities are registered for the termination of their activities. The main solutions to the bill are based on the electronic exchange of data, which also means the phasing out of paper documentation and the introduction of electronic commerce between registrant authorities and AJPES, as well as between business entities or service users and AJPES. Since the findings so far, based on the requirements of the participating entities in the integration and multi-purpose use of data on business entities in the country in practice, have shown that only from so-called registers and records do data not allow integration, the proposed novelty is to be incorporated and maintained by some new identifiers. Here I am thinking mainly of a single parent number and a tax number. The new law further takes into account the amended provisions in the amendment of the Company Act, which adds a completely new role to the Business Register. For independent entrepreneurs, IJPES also became a registry body on 1 July 2005 as the operator of the business register. By entering a business register, an individual acquires legal capacity. In addition, the law takes into account the solutions adopted in the context of the implementation of the VEM project, the electronic method of registration from any VEM entry point or even from the headquarters of a future entrepreneur by means of an online registration application. An important novelty is also the introduction of a register of digital certificates to simplify the verification process of legitimate representatives and their signatures and to establish a transparent functioning of business register units. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ferri Horvat has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you for saying that again. Dear Minister, Mrs. Avbljev, colleagues and colleagues! We agree in the parliamentary group that it is necessary to modernise the business register legislation, to take account of new information technologies and systems and to take good practice into account in comparable countries. In terms of content, the provisions on a special primary register for individual entrepreneurs are important. We expect the law to help establish a modern, central, integrated, up-to-date, computerised and European comparable public database on all business entities based in Slovenia. It will also be important for the law to contribute to the speedy exchange of data in electronic form and to the gradual elimination of paper documentation, and thus to simplify and reduce procedures. With regard to the creation of the amended draft law, it seems to us to point out that a large number of amendments have been prepared and adopted to almost most of the articles. In doing so, the cooperation of the representatives of the proposer, the legislative legal service and the services of the committee and other interested institutions was important. Nevertheless, it is well-intentioned that the applicant must take sufficient time to prepare proposals for laws and for prior coordination, in particular on difficult professional and legal issues. This is finally a condition not only for easier work at the working body and plenary session, but also for the adoption of quality laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič, New Slovenia has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u104	Well-known, distinguished vice president, distinguished minister with co-worker, respectable colleague and colleague! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal of the Business Register Act. A number of reasons justify the need to replace the outdated law in force today with a new one. It is clear to us and we also support this in our Group that today, and also European legislation, do not allow us to fall behind other members of the European Union in these areas. And the proposed new law takes account of the state of management of administrative business registers in the Member States of the European Union. It also provides the possibility to use data from business registers in connection with new business technologies. In addition, the proposal for a law takes into account the amended provisions of the amendment to the Company Act, which gives the Business Register a completely new role for individual entrepreneurs. By entering the business register, the independent entrepreneur also acquires a business ability. Surely we need a high-tech public database on all business entities in the Republic of Slovenia. The situation so far is such as to demonstrate the practice that only from so-called primary registers and records do not allow for integration, so some new identifiers such as the EMSO and the tax code are included in the business register. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed solutions give the Business Register new value and weight of confidence in it in terms of registration law. The main debate on the parental committee took place precisely around the eligibility of the implementation of EMSO and the tax numbers as an identifier and the concern that these two data would become public data, which would constitute a violation of the privacy of citizens. However, with the amendments adopted by the Committee, this Decision has been annulled, since the eighth indent of Article 2 clearly states that all data other than that established by law as personal data is public. Why the use of EMHOs is not contested or is still needed in the records. All records shall be kept by one key or by some data which is unique to the entry individually, and this data shall be uniquely represented by this entry. Different records are kept by different keys and if we want to merge these records into a single record, we need to use all the keys used in these records to merge. For example, I should point out that the register of establishment, founders and representatives does not keep the data by tax number; it is only maintained by the EMSO; it is said that we cannot obtain data on the founders and representatives from the Court Registry if we do not have data on the EMSO. And this data is essential if we want to drive some sort of central primary register. For this reason, in the New Slovenia Group, we do not question the fair purpose of proposing solutions and we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, with your co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy, as a parent working body, addressed this area of amendments to the proposed Business Register Act of Slovenia, because it was characterised by the fact that a large number of amendments were made, that there was really good cooperation between the various professional services on this committee, and that there were similar clarifications and concerns in this spirit about the use of personal data; I think it was sufficiently well explained how and why. The business register in Slovenia is now regulated by the 1995 law. The role and importance of the business register are known to everyone, since each of us has probably ever sought reliable information about a particular business entity, its legitimate representative or any other information concerning a business entity. The law in force is good in itself, and changes are needed in particular as a result of the development of modern electronic technologies and the fact that, by law on companies, part of the business register also becomes the primary register for independent entrepreneurs and individuals. The introduction of digital records, as well as the legitimate representatives of business register units, is of great importance and it should be borne in mind that today more and more business matters are being carried out by electronic means. The use of electronic channels also raises the issue of the safety of such business. From this point of view, the introduction of records of digital certificates is necessary as it simplifies the verification process of legitimate representatives and their signatures, thereby ensuring greater legal certainty in the field of electronic commerce. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this is an important acquisition for Slovenian and foreign business entities. The new company law provided for the primary register of individual independent entrepreneurs to be maintained within the framework of the business register. As a manager of this register, IAPES has also become a registrant. It is therefore necessary to establish appropriate registration procedures for these entities, since their registration also means registration and legal capacity. Such an arrangement means, in particular, simplification and the possibility of rapid establishment of a s.p., which is certainly an important advantage of this regime. In general, simplification of various administrative and other procedures must also be our country's future objective. An important novelty, which is proposed, is also new identifiers, including, in particular, EMHOs, which are intended to increase the possibility of linking the data obtained from different registers. We must be aware that electronic databases, which have a whole range of advantages, at the same time also pose a risk of data abuse. It is therefore fully understood that there are also a number of concerns and justified comments regarding the introduction of EMŠA as a registration identifier. In the SLS Group, we are aware that the collection of certain data does not yet mean to the public. Nevertheless, it is recalled that such data should be treated with extreme caution and in accordance with the purpose of their collection. In different registers, an EMSO or a tax number shall be used. Since the EMSO also contains the individual's birth date and is more sensitive in this respect than the tax number, we agree that the long-term objective in this area should be to keep all registers on the basis of a single identifier, i.e. tax numbers. Despite these concerns, however, we expect data to be collected in accordance with the objective and that their safety will be adequately addressed and possible abuses may be prevented. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! Undoubtedly, the business register of Slovenia needs to be updated. Undoubtedly, it is necessary to simplify all procedures so that the content of the Business Register of Slovenia serves its purpose. There is no doubt, however, that all laws or institutions above the law, such as the Constitution, which very clearly defines the protection of personal data in Article 38, must be respected. Undoubtedly, Article 38 prohibits the use of personal data contrary to the purpose of their collection. There is no doubt that we are following because we must, the European Union. It is also clear that the European Union wants us to have a single or uniform register for the exchange of data, that the European Union also provides for its rules which are binding on the Member States. I am not saying that they are semi-binding or that even individual Member States are left behind. We are talking about the diametric contradiction Europe has on data protection. I will speak in my own language, because my esteemed colleagues have told me long and short of the objectives and purposes of this register. Let me remind you of your so-called big brother. If you want in English, you prefer to speak in Slovenian, big brother is watching you, big brother is watching you. Let me remind you of the great intelligence of computer masters we call hackers today. Is there anything else that needs to be added? No, because there will be abuse. Abuse will occur because we are introducing new identifiers, which on the other hand, I am returning with Article 38 of the Constitution, protected and guaranteed. There's something else that's incomprehensible about this registry. The main purpose and purpose of the new law is to continue to establish a central link, up-to-date and European comparable and recognised and formalised public database and so on and so on. Okay. In the beginning, I was absolutely in agreement with that. So I'd like to ask you a question. The business register is supposed to take over all the registers in the future, according to the definitions that I quoted. As long as it's not, I'll be very happy to be warned by the professional services. I would like to point out that once in the future, the business register is supposed to take over all the registers. I'm talking about the court registry, the register of political parties, the register of trade unions, institutions and so on. If we take a closer look at this law today, we can see or wonder whether the proper subjects are covered in this law. For example, companies are listed and cooperatives are not listed. It all points to the desire to achieve something that is positive and, on the other hand, to a great deal of superficiality, to a great disadvantage, and to stumble and to face various challenges further. Once again, we support further development in the Slovenian National Party. We are convinced that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to respect the rules of the European Union, but not only on the one hand, but also on the other. And we are still stubborn and insist that the so-called new identifiers should be carefully included, or we would just insist that at least the EMHO should not be involved. At least EMHO, although not only EMHO is at issue, the tax number is at issue and account numbers are controversial. I'm going to say this one more time, this moment feels great and good that we're going to have some kind of a running path to some data. But the moment the big brother looks at us and the moment the hackers abuse the data and when we're personally involved and personally affected by it, I'm going to remind you, if I'm only alive and well, I'd like to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Wednesday 26 April 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to the law of the sea and amendments to the law of the sea. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: I give the text to the Government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Minister Janez Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The maritime code was adopted after multi-annual coordination in the 2001 National Assembly and was then amended twice, in 2002 on nuclear ships and in 2003 on the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia at sea. However, these changes did not cover all necessary changes and additions. The implementation of the Code has identified shortcomings that urgently need to be addressed in order to avoid harmful consequences for maritime safety. In addition, new rules have been adopted in the meantime and the existing rules of the European Union have been amended. The maritime code has therefore to be revised, harmonised with the amended Slovenian legislation, established a legal basis for transposition of European Union rules and addressed the shortcomings of the individual provisions that have been proven in practice. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore drawn up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the maritime code and has sent it into law on a procedure. At its 14th meeting, on 12.4.2006, the Committee of the National Transport Chamber adopted 33 amendments. The amendments were prepared in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Section of the Transport Committee and experts from the Ministry of Transport. The amendments took into account the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. Most of the proposed amendments were already covered by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which was submitted to the legislative procedure in 2003, but was withdrawn and replaced by a proposal that dealt only with the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia at sea. This bill proposes in particular the amendments necessary to continue the transposition of European maritime transport directives into the Slovenian legal order. Directives governing the safety of passenger ships, the safe loading and unloading of ships for the transport of bulk cargo, the specific stability requirements for RO-RO passenger ships, mandatory checks for the safe operation of liner ships with RO-RO passenger ships and fast passenger vessels, registration of passengers on passenger ships, protection in ports against terrorist attacks, surveillance of passenger traffic safety and others. For most of these Directives, the deadline for implementation has already expired and it is therefore necessary to avoid possible actions before the European Court of Justice so that the proposed law is adopted as soon as possible. Without this proposal, the Ministry has no legal basis for the issue of sub-legislative rules for the implementation and implementation of those Directives. For this reason, we have also proposed that the proposal to withdraw the bill from the agenda of the 14th meeting of the Transport Committee be rejected. Any proposals that some honourable Members have yet to include in the draft law are certainly welcome material for the preparation of the next novel of the maritime code, but are not of such a urgency in order to withdraw the current proposal of the law. In particular, we have already responded to these initiatives to the Transport Committee. The general initiatives of the Members we have adopted do not require immediate changes to the maritime code as the reasons we have cited. This is a timely transfer of the European acquis into the Slovenian legal order. However, delay can also have financial consequences for the Republic of Slovenia, which all of us are well aware of, and we are called upon and obliged to do our utmost to prevent them. Therefore, honourable Members, we propose that you confirm the proposed law, which is not only important for the transfer of the acquis of the European Union, but indirectly also represents an important contribution to greater security for our sea, which I believe is in our common interest. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Bojan Rugl, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall, especially Minister Christmas, his coworker! At its 14th meeting, on 12.4.2006, the Committee of the National Transport Council held a second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the ordinary legislative procedure on 22.2.2006. The representatives of the Maritime Directorate also participated in the meeting of the Committee, in addition to the representatives of the proposed law-and-legislative service of the National Assembly. The draft law was also forwarded in writing by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on 31 March 2006. The introduction is Minister of Transport Mag. Janez Bozič stressed the basic objectives and principles of the bill's proposal relating to the identified shortcomings, which need to be addressed in order to avoid harmful consequences for maritime safety in the territorial sea and the internal maritime waters of the Republic of Slovenia. These are less difficult amendments and supplements to address the shortcomings of the current code. In addition, new rules and amended existing rules in the EU have been adopted in the meantime, requiring the harmonisation of the provisions of the Code with the new rules, the establishment of a legal basis for the transposition of the rules into the Slovenian legal order and the establishment of sanctions for infringements. The reasons for the issue of amendments and additions are mainly reflected in the unresolved problems of foreign ships which are unjustifiable in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia, in the informationisation of the state administration and the elimination of administrative barriers to procedures in non-compliance with other laws, such as the Water Act and the Offences Act. In accordance with international standards which prevent terrorist acts, in the provisions relating to fees, safety of navigation, order in ports, inspections of vessels carried out by classification establishments, in the absence of the existence of an institute, a record sheet, in the incompleteness of the documents to be held by a ship, in the inadequate arrangements for the ship register and the harmonisation of infringements with the material provisions. In addition, the text had to be clarified and some editorial corrections introduced. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee also voted on the individual articles of the bill and adopted its amendments, which are mostly editorial in nature. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister Christmas with a coworker, distinguished colleague and colleague! The maritime code regulates sovereign rights, jurisdiction and control of the Republic of Slovenia at sea, the safety of navigation by territorial sea and inland sea waters, the protection of the sea from pollution by vessels and the legal regime of ports. It also regulates the real-law relations and contractual and other bond relations relating to vessels such as the entry of vessels, limitation of ship's liability, enforcement, insurance on vessels and conflict-of-law rules. The implementation of the maritime code has identified shortcomings that need to be addressed in order to avoid adverse consequences for maritime safety in the territorial sea and the internal maritime waters of the Republic of Slovenia. These are less difficult amendments and supplements to address the shortcomings of the current code. In addition, new rules have been adopted in the meantime and existing EU rules have been amended requiring the harmonisation of the provisions of the Code with the new rules, the establishment of a legal basis for the transposition of such rules into the Slovenian legal order and the establishment of sanctions for infringements. The reasons for the issue of amendments and additions are shown in particular in the unresolved problems of foreign ships which are unjustifiable in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia, in the informationisation of the State administration and in the elimination of administrative barriers to procedures in non-compliance with other laws, such as the Waters and Offences Act, in compliance with international standards preventing terrorist acts, in the provisions relating to fees, safety of navigation, order in ports, inspections of vessels carried out by classification establishments, in the absence of the existence of an institution, a register of registration, in the incomplete documents to be held by the ship, and in the inadequate arrangements established in respect of the ship register and the harmonisation of infringements with the material provisions. In addition, the text should be clarified and some editorial corrections introduced. In view of these meaningful solutions in the review of the maritime code and in view of the coherence of the envisaged solutions with European legislation, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the amendment of the maritime code.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Dr Marko Pavliha will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Director-General, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that the semi-empty hall does not symbolically express our country's other stepmotherly attitude towards maritime affairs. However, believe it or not, in our Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy, we do not oppose change. We think they're properly prepared. Indeed, it would indicate that it is the second largest regulation in Slovenia, which has 999 members, to consider at the same time other urgent changes resulting from changes in international and European law; therefore, I also proposed to the Chairman of the Committee on Transport that this agenda should be withdrawn from the agenda on 14 April and to invite the Ministry to prepare these additional amendments in a month or two. Unfortunately, my initiative did not run into fertile soils, even more so, I was disappointed to learn from the magnetogram, and I could not attend this meeting alone, that I was obviously to blame for the delay in accepting these urgent changes. It is interesting what I have managed to do in these few months of the ministry from a 30 billion-billion-dollar loss in the rail sector to a maritime code, with this resort in the hands of almost 15 years or the People's Party or other coalition parties. But not to be overly critical again, let me continue with my initiatives. Today, I will also send a friendly written initiative to the Minister, in which I propose that, as soon as possible, the maritime code be amended or adapted to the following international conventions and European directives. First, the Athens Convention and its 2002 amendments in the field of transport of passengers and luggage by sea. The European Commission also invites and proposes to support the ratification of this Protocol and is also preparing a proposal for a specific decision on this subject. Then to comply with the new Convention on Civil Liability for the Pollution of the Sea by Fuel, not by Loading, but by Fuel. That, too. Especially in the context of discussions on the gas terminal and all potential tankers that will sail into our small pool is a very big threat. Then to comply with the Convention on Liability for the Transport of Dangerous and Harmful Substances. To take into account a number of changes in civil liability for oil pollution. This time, however, it is cargo pollution and takes into account the 1992 and 2003 changes, which significantly increase the liability limits of the ship owner or carrier. Then it would also suggest considering a chapter on ports. It is said that a special regulation on ports is being prepared. We've decided to have a code. The law also means for the user a regulation that comprehensively regulates all problems in a particular maritime area. Why also have other regulations to leave aside a dilemma, or do we really need a port administration, which has been criticised by the new director Luke Koper himself recently. Then there is something else, such as stopping a ship or a city of refuge, which is also conditioned by new regulations. Some provisions relating to stopping the ship and selling, which should also be taken into account in the maritime code. Finally, here is the whole issue of labour law on ships currently regulated by the Labour Relations Act, and we have been drafting this regulation for some years now, whether it would have been advisable to regulate it in the law. We were of the opinion yes, but the current assembly of parliament or government has decided differently, but nothing harms that we may be able to resolve this in the future. Finally, at the level of the European Union, a comprehensive amendment or addition of legislation on marine pollution by oil, so-called Erika 3, is being prepared, and it would also make sense to take these changes into account. As it is said, it is a friendly comment from the proposal and today I am also sending this initiative to the Ministry in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would say that, in the SD Group of Members, we are reserved for this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the maritime code because the novelties of the maritime code are correct. Amendments to the fifth part of the maritime code are comprehensive and comprehensive, while changes to the rest of the work are only individual and incomplete, as well as where they are extensive, we wonder whether they will also be effective. For instance. Will ships of general navigation now enter the Slovenian Ship Register, what does the Ministry of Transport think to propose for the greater competitiveness of our shipowner and if they do not sign in, can this be seen as a failure to change the maritime code that we are considering? Next. Why can't a nuclear-powered ship enter our register, since even nuclear warships are allowed to sail into our sea? It's unusual, isn't it? Where a regulation as extensive as the maritime code is being amended, it makes sense to recast it in a comprehensive manner, for example, not taking into account the amendments introduced by modernisation, the rule of temporary suspension of ships, although the applicant claims to be, this is the 1999 International Convention on the Temporary Suspension of Ships. Are the rules on the transport of dangerous and harmful things by sea under the International Convention for the Liability and Compensation of Damage in the Transport of Dangerous and Health Harmful Things by Sea 1996 ratified in Slovenia in 2004? Is this Protocol 2002 to the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers by Sea? Do we even know in Slovenia what is happening in the European Union with the regulation on the regulation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the ligibility of carriers of passengers by see and inland waterways in the event of incidents? What about the rules of multimodal transport when the maritime code is changing? Why is it that the draft law does not take into account the principles of the newly emerging Convention on the Transport of Goods by Sea? Among other things, the proposer did not pursue debarcation of ship sales rules. The sense of an effective ship sales system is, of course, although it seems at first sight uninhabitable to the debtor in promoting the maritime economy; and the reason is that banks are more easily lending under more favourable conditions if the profitability is easier, which ultimately means that we are accelerating economic development by debirocraticisation, if we are already talking so much about reforms that are expected to burden and accelerate the development of the economy. Do we know in Slovenia that a shipowner, as a person in maritime transport in many countries, is terminated and instead introduced the notion of a carrier. Another question is whether the Law of the Sea has been amended by the Association for the Law of the Sea of Slovenia, which brings together practically all maritime lawyers in our country and all those who have in practice implemented and implemented maritime law, international maritime law. As far as we are aware, the Ministry has not addressed this society and the critical professional public is not too important or is not at all wanted at the Ministry of Transport. For a little while. The changes are consistent, largely inspired by the rules of the European Union, and we have undertaken only the administrative part of maritime law, which could be called the bureaucratic part. It is therefore right that the Group of Members with a reserve treats this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, also greeted by another minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we agree that it is imperative to address the identified shortcomings in the implementation of the maritime code in order to avoid harmful consequences for maritime safety in the territorial sea and the internal sea waters of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, new rules have been adopted in the meantime and the existing rules of the European Community have been amended which require the harmonisation of the provisions of the Code with the new rules, the establishment of a legal basis for the transposition of such rules into the Slovenian legal order and the establishment of sanctions for infringements. The reasons for adopting amendments and supplementing the maritime code are mainly reflected in the unresolved problems of foreign ships which are unjustifiable in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia, in informing the state administration and removing administrative barriers to procedures, in non-compliance with other laws, such as the Water Act, the Nature Protection Act, the Offences Act and other laws. Let me point out that certain directives should already be implemented with effect from 1 May 2004, when Slovenia entered the European Union. In New Slovenia, we understand that the failure to accept amendments to the maritime code would put the Republic of Slovenia at risk of a reminder from the European Commission, which would probably be followed by an action before the Court of Justice of the European Community, which would also have major financial implications for our country. On the basis of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, legal grounds will be given for the preparation and adoption of sub-legal acts relating to the maritime equipment of a passenger ship, requirements and procedures for the safe loading and unloading of ships, for the transport of bulked cargo and for increased protection on ships and ports. I would also like to point out that all the changes were already made in 2003, but I think they were unjustifiably abandoned at the time. As has already been said, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the maritime code, in our view, eliminates the identified shortcomings in the implementation of the maritime code, and therefore the entire New Slovenia Group will also support the proposal for that law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker. It would be good for us to start discussing what we are doing, how we are doing, what we are doing, what we are doing, what we are doing, what we are doing, what we are not doing, and what we are doing, what we are doing. With regard to the maritime code, which, as has already been said, has been a comprehensive code that has been adopted almost 5 years ago and has already experienced two novelties since then, it still has certain shortcomings that need to be addressed, in particular due to the safety of maritime transport in the Slovenian Sea, even though it is, as someone said, a pool. The new code that we are considering today also brings alignment with the latest EU maritime law instruments. During the resolution of the Code, I would like to draw particular attention to the issue of foreign ships which are unjustifiable in the sea of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, they were also able to read and monitor in the media the problems caused by abandoned and decomposing ships along the Slovenian coast or bound in Slovenian ports. The law thus brings solutions to prevent such ships from staying in the Slovenian sea or Slovenian ports in the long term. We welcome this solution in the Slovenian People's Party both from the point of view of the settlement of anchor costs and in particular from the point of view of ecology or the protection of the Slovenian sea from pollution. The law also brings compliance with certain other laws and regulates sanctions for all offences. The latter, of course, is essential if we want certain prohibitions of the current code to serve their purpose, as the legislator did when preparing the basic code. The Committee on Transport highlighted the position of the fellow Member, Dr Pavliha, which proposed major substantive changes and solutions to be regulated by the amendment of the law or code. In principle, we agree with the Slovenian People's Party that these solutions need to be reviewed and possibly included in future changes to the maritime code. However, this fact must not be an obstacle to the continued adoption and consideration of the existing proposal for a amendment to the Code at this time. It is true that the novelty brings minor but urgent changes that need to be accepted as soon as possible due to Slovenia's interests in the area of the Slovenian Sea and the management of the Slovenian Sea. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a new maritime code.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Maritime Code, which was adopted in 2001, has been amended twice by now, certainly needs some new additions and that is why we do not intend to oppose the changes in the Slovenian National Party. The current maritime code is one of the most extensive laws, as already stated before me, which is 1000 pages, in fact 1,000 articles in scope, also regulates the safety of navigation along the territorial sea and inland sea waters, the protection of the sea from pollution by vessels, the navigational regime of ports and sailed into insurance and coalition rules. In the Slovenian National Party, we understand the proposed amendments only in order to address the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the current implementation of the law. The amendment of laws dictates in particular the unresolved problems of foreign ships, as already said before me by other interlocutors who remain in the Slovenian sea. The maritime code, as it is now, allows a ship which does not carry out any commercial or other works over a period of time, especially when anchored, to be able to sell this ship. This is right because we know that the Slovenian sea has already become a landfill for old ships, we have already faced many times in practice that large ships have brought ships into our sea, left them there and actually left the fate of the crew and the ships to Slovenia, and the ships were sometimes loaded with a controversial ecological cargo, the last case of asbestos. Of course, we also welcome the fact that, in the section on infringements for operators, in particular for those who have received a boat driving test and so on, action is taken in a manner consistent with that of those involved in transport when they are guilty. And so it is, but in the chapter on offences for acts prohibited under the current maritime code, we lack sanctions; for sanctions are not enshrined in the law, that is a little strange. The assessment of the situation in our opinion is that the law does not impose additional financial burdens on the budget, and it is certainly also commendable that this new law also allows electronic access to certain databases and is also welcome for other users and the Slovenian Maritime Authority. It is a matter of coordination with the rules of the European Union and in the Slovenian National Party, as has already been said, we do not intend to oppose this law. However, while we are in this important marriage, I would like to stress the following. I would also like the Ministry of Transport to resolve a number of outstanding issues in Slovenia's only port; we know that there are a lot of buildings built there on the black ground, and because today there is a respected Mr. Minister here with us, I would like to remind you that it is time, however, that there is a time for buildings that do not have usable permits, building permits and the rest necessary for operation, to legalise, because Luke needs greater respect for the state and also greater favour of the ministry. The Ministry of Transport does not have only roads in its jurisdiction, it also has ports, railways, air transport, and it is therefore appropriate to pay particular attention to this problem, since all politicians who come to Slovenia are the first to rumble with joy at the sight of our window into the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Wednesday 26 April 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Service Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Please, Master Andrey Bručan, Minister of Health. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u126	Good-bye, everybody! Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services, the Government has proposed some amendments which it has assessed are needed in the light of a faster procedure. In particular, it is a matter of aligning the provisions on membership of the Medical Chamber with the decision of the Constitutional Court to comply with other laws, such as the Offences Act. The amendment also proposes the implementation of the agreement between Fides, the Medical Chamber and the Government, which discusses the payment of the on-call service. We also wanted to arrange for the payment of additional work carried out by doctors and others, due to the programme to shorten waiting periods. The draft law lays down the basis for determining the amount of membership, the criteria for its height and the activity of the Medical Chamber financed by membership and the control of the State over the determination of membership. By decision of 2003 the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the provision of Article 74 of the Medical Service Act is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it does not specify the extent to which the activities of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia are financed by membership, the basics and criteria for regulating membership and the control of the State over the determination of membership. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has indicated that it is incumbent on it to abolish the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution long ago in 2003. The draft law thus eliminates that finding of non-compliance with the Constitution. The bill is also in line with the law on offences, by turning the monetary penalty imposed for an offence into a fine and by establishing the criminal authorities with the law on the recognition and evaluation of education, by transforming the certificate of ratification of the diploma of a foreign university into a decision on the equivalence of a foreign address with a Slovenian professional title. As regards the on-calls, an agreement was reached on 23.7.2004 on the resolution of open issues between the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber and Fides, in which the parties argued, inter alia, that hours of full-time work, when the doctor is present in the workplace for the purpose of providing continuous 24-hour health care, and apart from availability in the workplace, there are no other obligations or responsibilities, the time of availability in the workplace is considered to be full-time work and is valued in the same way as full-time work as a doctor. All remaining hours for full-time work are valued and accounted for as a full-time doctor. The transitional and final provisions also stipulate that the content of the agreement shall be transferred to the collective agreement for doctors and dentists. Since the content of the agreement has not yet been transferred to the collective agreement and since the provision of Article 4, paragraph 3, of the agreement is therefore not being implemented in the health institutions, the proposed law implements the text of the agreement on duty. The proposal thus provides that the active hours of on-call work carried out by the doctor shall be assessed as full-time work and shall be considered to be full-time work and evaluated as part-time work. If they represent inactive hours less than 50% of the entire duration of duty, all hours of duty during full-time work shall be counted and evaluated in the same way as full-time work. The proposal provides that the Government will lay down, by regulation, the criteria for the identification of active and inactive hours and for the determination of their scope. The deadline for issuing the regulation shall be two months. In order to implement the amendment of the law or to change the mode of payment of on-call payments, it will be necessary to provide 1.8 billion tolls under the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, of which it will be necessary to pay a little over a billion tolls, 50 million to pay on-calls in medical activities and 500 million to other health workers and health workers. With a view to reducing waiting lines for health services where the waiting type is too long, the planned revenue surpluses over the expenditure of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute for the implementation of the waiting period reduction programme in health care are redistributed according to the Government's decision. As the shortage of health workers and healthcare professionals employed in the public health service where the expenditure programme is being implemented will increase the scope of work or will impose additional workloads within full-time and full-time work allowed, the draft law provides them with the possibility of an additional increase in the amount of work. The possibility of an increase in the amount of work is also envisaged for other employees in health activities, provided that they have increased their workload or additional workloads in full-time and full-time work allowances due to the implementation of waiting-term reduction programmes. However, the government will specify in more detail the conditions, criteria and extent of payment for the increased work or the over-average burden of each doctor, other healthcare professional and other health worker and other health worker, and the deadline for the issue of this Regulation shall be two months. This proposal for the adoption of a law also lays down the conditions for the suspension of official specialisation and lays down sanctions for a specialist who does not fulfil his first employment obligation with the health care provider in the region for which he has been granted specialisation for a one-time period of specialisation or does not complete this authorised specialisation for the candidate. These changes are necessary, partly on the basis of arrangements already adopted in the previous period, but they are also partly necessary in order to allow some of our ideas in terms of reducing waiting times in a short time. Therefore, I ask that you adopt the law or amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr. Secretary, with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 14th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services, which was forwarded to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in accordance with the proposed reduced procedure. In addition to the text of the draft law, the members of the Committee for the Consideration of the Meeting received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of State, a letter from the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and a review of the amendments tabled. Mr Dorijan Marusič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, presented the content and objectives of the proposed law. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined that proposal of the law and has drawn up comments on the individual article of the bill. His opinion on the bill was forwarded by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which supported the bill. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, different opinions and various solutions were expressed as invited members. Given that the proposal for a new law lays down the legal basis for the addition of doctors to the increased amount of work carried out by doctors in the framework of full-time and full-time work allowed, the question was particularly raised as to how that provision is placed in the public sector's entire wage management system, since the government on the one hand does not allow debate on the salaries of judges and tries to restrict them and, on the other hand, it does not allow certain professional structures. In particular, the question was raised as to why the content of the open-ended agreements concluded between the Ministry of Health, the Chamber and the FIDES was not regulated in the collective contract for doctors and dentists, as set out in the transitional and final provisions. The question was raised as to how other health workers were involved and the participation of other trade unions in the negotiations and the position of private individuals in the public health network. In the area of 24-hour on-call service, there are major problems as private people tend to avoid it and public health directors contract retired doctors for the implementation of health care services due to lack of staff The representative of the public sector union stressed that the union's proposed solution in the bill does not in principle conflict with the law, but requires such a provision to be transposed into the law on the public sector's wage system. All parts of the public sector, in particular education, culture, science and social sectors, are not regulated in this area. The representative of the Fides trade union further pointed out that Article 14 of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System provides for additional payments and special arrangements to increase the volume of work and travels to specific laws which are intended to regulate this in more detail. The representative of the Slovenian Health and Social Protection Union pointed out that the Ministry of Health and Public Administration had been warned that this area should be regulated in a uniform and non-discriminatory way for all workers in health and social protection because it is a matter of transfusing activities. Some members of the Committee and the Secretary of State have pointed out that the articles must be read and that the law submitted applies not only to doctors but also to other healthcare professionals and health workers. The Committee further voted on the amendments tabled to the bill and supported the amendments of the four coalition groups. These have also withdrawn their amendment to Article 5 of the bill, and the Committee has not adopted the amendment of Mr Bojan Kontič for a new Article 12a of the bill. The Committee also adopted two amendments to Articles 5 and 21. Finally, the members of the committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor again on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we are negatively surprised by the amendment of the law, because we believe it does not solve the accumulated problems in the health care system, but only increases them. We believe that in the field of regulating the medical service there is a need for systemic solutions that take account of the current EU acquis and protect primarily the public interest, not just partial interests within the healthcare system. At the same time, it is difficult to understand the proposaler's attempts to regulate some of the content by means of a reduced procedure, but he has failed to make changes to all the necessary articles, since he is already talking about the need for further additions. As one of the major weaknesses of the law, which is also pointed out by the legal and legislative service, is the failure to respect one of the principles of the rule of law, the so-called rule of law. The law should provide a substantive basis for the issue of sub-legislative rules and individual enforcement acts, and unfortunately the applicant ignores this fact and will resolve those contents either by means of government regulations or by the regulations of the Minister of Health. This, in our opinion, means untransparent work or inability of the proposer to draw up an appropriate text of the law. Unfortunately, amendments to the Committee have already been adopted and some of the proposed amendments that will be under consideration today do not solve this problem. In the case of professional training of doctors, the law merely aligns the provisions with the legislation already adopted but does not solve the problems arising from training. Thus, the law does not provide any solutions in terms of lack of doctors. The proposed legal solution will not eliminate the outflows of personnel, the suspension of specialisations or the holding of vacancies. The solutions proposed to regulate the scope of the activities of the Medical Chamber do not answer the question of how someone in the public interest of employees may order the payment of a membership fee for the performance of works which, in essence, may be contrary to the interest of the employee. In such a case, it could be a matter of paying for negotiations on the employer’s side, as the Medical Chamber receives funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the fulfilment of the content for which it has public powers. The law further regulates the legal basis for the supplement to increase the work of doctors and other healthcare professionals and co-workers and to regulate the provision of 24-hour healthcare or on-call care. In doing so, I would like to make it clear that in the LDS House of Members, we do not oppose the regulation of the salaries of healthcare workers and respect their efforts to increase them, but point to the issue of partial regulation and to the contrary to the legislation adopted. In accordance with the agreed agreement on the resolution of the open issues of July 2004, which dealt with certain doctoral working hours, it is clear in the transitional provisions that the partners will support the inclusion of the on-call provisions in the agreement in the collective contract for doctors and dentists or in the collective contract for the public sector. It is precisely because of the agreement reached that such an agreement should be entered into the text of collective agreements. The collective agreement for the public sector is difficult, but an important task for each government, according to the words, is also an important priority for the current government. The negotiations were still going very well in the beginning, but in some part of the dialogue, the system began to collapse, and it fell through the basic principles of collective bargaining. The government has engaged in very reckless and underestimating negotiations, and the new pay policies are opposed by doctors, police officers, judges, schoolchildren. In the LDS, we believe that collective negotiations have added value that we should support, not allow for partial regulation that can once again lead to sectoral, non-transparent and unanimity wage regulation in the public sector. Thus, the way in which increased work is paid and overtime is not covered by the Medical Service Act, since this is already regulated or should be further regulated by the Labour Relations Act, the Public Servants System and the Collective Contract. Such thinking is also supported by a comparison of arrangements in other countries. At the same time, it is very unusual for special provisions to regulate this area for other healthcare professionals and co-workers, without any changes to other laws being prepared and the content being regulated in a comprehensive, simultaneous and packaged manner. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the assessment of the financial implications of the bill. Nowhere is it defined the extent of the resources and the resources from which it will be intended to increase the volume of work and the expected effects. It is also not possible to understand the consequences for healthcare users, as it will be necessary to redistribute 1.6 billion Slovenian tolls under health insurance. Whether this will reduce the scope of rights or reduce the volume of services remains unanswered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The report presented by the Chairman of the Health Committee on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services shows that it is a matter of realising an agreement between the Ministry, the Medical Chamber and the FIDES, that is, a union of doctors providing a legal basis for a supplement to increase the work of doctors and other healthcare professionals. This seems particularly important to me to stress, that is, other health workers and healthcare professionals. Therefore, it is not just doctors, but we would rightly expect to mention, in addition to the FIDES union, a trade union covering the remaining healthcare professionals or co-workers. This would avoid a warning from the representative of the Health and Social Welfare Union of Slovenia, Mrs Nevenka Lekša, who stressed on the Committee the need for a uniform and non-discriminatory way for all employees in health and social protection. Since the law also interferes with the field of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, I have introduced an amendment to the procedure which would allow the establishment of a separate dental chamber, but was rejected. At the same time, it was assured that if dentists, of course a qualified majority, decided that they would have their own room, that this could be done in the future. Nor was the amendment taken on a proposal from the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, which states that a doctor who has reached the age of 55 years does not need to perform on-call service under conditions set by the Minister. The amendment has not been adopted, so we have also tabled it for today's hearing of the National Assembly. This is not to be overlooked, or it is worth noting that in public institutions, I have in mind the primary level here, the directors of these institutions a great problem in how to fill gaps where doctors are missing, and often help themselves in the way of contractually hiring retired doctors. The content of this law is an attempt to solve the problem in which we find ourselves due to the lack of doctors, whether it is in the area of increased scope or in the field of on-call care. This intervention in marriage will not eliminate problems, but it will ease them, at least we hope so. Health care is certainly a system that does not allow reckless and partial interventions. What is more, we would need a national programme that would clearly define our health strategy. The granting of concessions alone cannot eliminate the fact that doctors are too few, it is only different, according to the opinion of the Social Democrats, a worse regime. Our reservations regarding private health care are well known. The responsibility of the minister, the ministry and the government to ensure a health system that improves the health of the population, to allow greater and faster access to health services, to maintain and even strengthen solidarity and justice is certainly great. We expect the measures, but before that, we suggest that the Minister by granting concessions does not rush to the right. The measures provided for in this law will not be opposed in the Group of Social Democrats, but we propose that the amendment, by which we want to incorporate our contribution to the above-mentioned objectives, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, the representative of the Ministry, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia, as the most important part of the novelty of the medical service law that we have before us today, we see in those provisions that change with a view to reducing waiting lines for healthcare services that are too long and, in this regard, in particular, in provisions that provide a legal basis for supplementation in case of increased work or over-average burden due to the implementation of the additional programme. Above all, we are assessing in Novi Slovenija, but this legal basis has been given. It is given, which is also explicitly written, not only to doctors but also to all healthcare professionals and coworkers. Thus, for example, nurses who were often warned that they were left behind in this story. The government will determine the conditions, criteria and extent of payment for the increased work or the over-the-average burden of an individual healthcare worker. However, the proposed amendments, which we have tabled together with the remaining three coalition parliamentary groups, will also set the basic limits so that the public health institution, the public health institution, will be entitled to the supplement if it implements the programme under the contract concluded by the institution under the law governing health care and insurance. It will therefore be possible and possible to agree between a healthcare professional and his superiors to carry out an increased workload and thus to make payments. In New Slovenia we also support other solutions defined by the bill and followed by the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has requested that the scope of the activity of the Chamber financed by membership be legally defined. This is also necessary because the State provides the Chamber with funds directly from the budget to carry out that part of its activities relating to the exercise of public powers. In addition, it is more appropriately stipulated by the law that the types of specialisations will be adopted by the Chamber in cooperation with the Ministry, and a clearer provision will be made regarding the monitoring of the legality of the House’s work, with the supervision of the Ministry of Health. In New Slovenia we are confident that these changes in the law will have a positive impact on the situation in our health for the benefit of all Slovenians and Slovenes, and we will therefore support the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you again, Mr Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Law on Medical Services deals with some important open issues in the law in force and is also in line with the amendments to the Law on Offences and the Law on Recognition and Evaluation of Education. The proposed amendments are necessary in our view, as they regulate the quality and continued availability of health care and allow the implementation of measures to reduce waiting lines in medical clinics. Probably the most important part of the law is the transposition of part of the text of the agreement on the resolution of open issues into the law and the regulation of the increased work of doctors. The agreement on the resolution of open issues was the result of the dissatisfaction of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the Fides union due to a solution in the field of the duties and rights of doctors in the performance of the medical service carried over by the novels of the 2002 Act. As the most controversial has been the arrangements for the beginning of doctors’ working hours, arrangements for doctors’ rest, on-call payments, constant preparedness and so on. This agreement has dealt with key issues of dispute or open issues of the current law. The agreement is provided for in a collective agreement with doctors and dentists. Part of the agreement is the content of the law that we are considering today or that is in the process. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we see no major difficulty in regulating part of the agreement in the proposed amendment of the law, taking into account the explicit statement of the State Secretary, who on the Health Committee said that the articles of the law should be read connected and that the proposed law applies not only to doctors but also to other health workers and health workers. The bill regulates the legal basis for doctors’ supplements for increased work. This legal basis also applies to other healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals. However, in our view, some of the issues covered by the proposed law will also need to be addressed in other sectoral laws. With regard to the addition of doctors to the increased scope of work, it was stressed by the representative of the public sector union that such a solution should be transposed into the public sector wage system law and thus resolved at a systemic level for the whole public sector. This view is understandable, but it should be emphasized in particular that in the case of health care it is an activity of public interest and also because of the nature of the work it is different from other areas of the public sector. It is also important to regulate the specialisation of doctors, which is inconsistent, in particular in cases where individuals who have had an authorised specialisation have not been unduly specialised or have failed to fulfil their obligations arising from specialisation. The law brings appropriate solutions in this area and allows those who actually want to carry out this specialisation to specialise in the field, while ensuring appropriate legal remedies in the event of non-compliance with the specialist's obligations. In view of the above, we will fully support the law, which brings good solutions, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I invite the next one to Mr Barovic's word on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government! We have heard a lot of expert opinions, assessments and official explanations on the proposed law on amendments and additions to the medical service law, so it is pointless to repeat the findings, reasons, objectives, etc. Perhaps it would be easier to say that there have actually been some changes because, however we take, there are no doctors, doctors are missing, and something needs to be done. No one, as far as I was listening, tried to listen all the time, mentioned, for example, the important work that is in the proposal of this law and which speaks about the regulation of specializations, which I am very surprised that no one is talking about, but this is a very important content, because, last but not least, there is a lot of truth in the facts and also a lot of truth that is needed to enter into this law. In fact, some specialize in beauty or evil forever and are still specialists, and they are far from that. Those who want to and who are needed by hospitals or health institutions cannot do so. Finally, thank God that, I hope, in this area, at least some of the articles of this law will be made one order. The next thing is the content - I will mention it in a very partial way - that we in the Slovenian National Party, which, in fact, we have with a colleague, Mr Friend, because we are very busy or we must also engage in the fight for the status of hospitals in Zasavje and in Sežana, as well as with other colleagues. In fact, these amendments that have been tabled speak, at least in my opinion, for the sake of this law. And I don't know why we wouldn't be adopted, like an amendment that says that the call for specialisation covers specialized areas for the needs of public health care and so on. This is an amendment tabled under Article 5 not to speak of an amendment to Article 8 - to implement a health service programme with a doctor who, within the framework of the public health service network, works full-time with one or more employers, or with a doctor who already has a contract of employment with the employer, may conclude a contract of employment in accordance with the law governing the bond relationship, although we know that two laws should be inconsistent. I have already received one answer - here I defend it, the government - that if this is arranged and this amendment is accepted, we can say that this is "lex specialist". I already got an answer once because the later marriage was against the previous one, but it was later, so if we accept it, it was valid. So why not? This will help to ensure a sufficient number of doctors. Of course, these amendments continue, and I will stress the amendment that we tabled in the Slovenian National Party to Article 9, where, like some colleagues before me, we stress that a doctor who adds 55 should not be 50, as is now the year of age, so that he can no longer be on duty. I believe that this is also one of the solutions, and if we accept it today in the form of an amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party or, if you want, someone else, to actually give this limit 50 years of opportunity - we say that we do not extend it, but we give it to doctors who want and who want to be able to on duty by 55 years of age, depending on their abilities and abilities, and to give them the opportunity to not be on duty after 55 years of age, which does not mean that they cannot. In short, I see, in this case, if such an amendment is accepted, a double solution, one that allows doctors to perform on-calls if they are decent, willing and willing, not by the age of 50, but by the age of 55. But we're still giving them a chance to do it after this year. But if they want to, they can. Thank God if they help to achieve the essence and objectives of this law, which we have all talked about, to reduce waiting times and, above all, to improve quality services and services for citizens and citizens. In short, I think that this is one law where we can also find a common language by listening to and accepting some amendments and we say, it is right that this proposal for a medical service law is in front of us according to the procedure envisaged, and it is right to accept it, because this will solve the problems of lack of doctors and allow quality and shorter work for patients as well. Thus, in the Slovenian National Party, we will be pleased if you support the amendments, and we will be happy to support this law at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a word with you, Mr. Mag. Klavoro to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u140	Dear Mr Vice-President, Mr. Secretary-General! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will also support it. The new Law on Medical Services means that two years ago an agreement has been reached between the FIDES Union, the Medical Chamber and the Ministry of Health on the management of the health service problem. Members of the DeSUS view this as positive that the proposed law regulates the proper evaluation of the on-call services of all health workers and workers and not just doctors, since in the past the remaining staff have been neglected. The fact is that the problem of lack of doctors, including other medical personnel, has long been known in Slovenia, since according to the European average of 3.5 doctors per 1,000 population, in Slovenia only 2.2, this actually means that there are about 2,600 doctors missing. In particular, this deficit is reflected in certain regions or in certain remote regions of Slovenia. Given that the needs of people are increasing from day to day, and given the apparent lack of healthcare staff in the parliamentary group, we welcome the proposed regulation on the evaluation of the greater scale of health care or the arrangements for paying additional burdens, since we believe that such legislation will have a stimulating impact on all those working in health care. As a result, such arrangements will also have a positive impact on the reduction of waiting lines too long for operational interventions, as additional burdens will be properly evaluated and health service directors will have an adequate legal basis for concluding contracts with employees. As far as the medical chambers are concerned, let me mention that the arrangements so far have not been the most successful, and we therefore agree with the solution proposed, since it fully sums up the decision of the Constitutional Judges. The criteria for determining membership will be laid down by law from now on, as well as the control of the State over the fixing of the level of membership. However, a particular problem is the regulation of specialisations and the entire system of professional training of doctors. The current system, according to our assessment, is further generating a lack of medical personnel. The current legislation does not limit the possibility of replacing the specialisation programme for another programme, nor the conditions for the suspension of the specialisation under official duty and the possibility of candidacy. The amendment, however, fills this legal void as the proposed amendment gives the Chamber the opportunity, under certain conditions, to suspend the specialisation of those who have in fact been unreasonably specialised for years. This will free up the vacancies for candidates who actually want to specialize. The key innovations brought by the bill are, therefore, the regulation of the legal basis for better paying on-calls, the payment of work under an additional programme to reduce waiting periods and the possibility of imposing exceptional burdens or exceeding the work programme. And it is precisely because of these long-awaited novelties that we agree on with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act. We are aware that the proposed law does not fully address all the accumulated problems in this area and that it is only a transitional solution to the problem, but the government has promised that this area will be fully and systematically regulated by the Health Act, which is intended to take into account the current EU acquis and protect, in addition to the partial interests of individual stakeholders within the health system, the public interest. In view of what has been said and in the hope that the government will fulfill its promises and commitments, we will uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The representative of the Hungarian national community, Mrs Pozsonec, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Say good-bye again to all present. At the outset, I would like to start by saying that I will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services is aligned with the Law on Offences, which provides that rules specifying offences which do not comply with the provisions of the new Law should be harmonised within three years of its entry into force. This deadline has already expired on 7.2.2006 and with the law on the recognition and evaluation of education, and also in the decision of the Constitutional Court, it eliminates the finding of non-conformity with the Constitution. With the proposed amendments, the law follows the following major objectives: to implement the provisions of the Act on Offences, which provides that rules specifying offences which are not in accordance with this Act must be harmonised within three years of the law being enforced with the Act on Offences, and therefore, as the main penalty, a fine should be fixed instead of a fine. In aligning the law with the law on the recognition and evaluation of education, the transmission of part of the text of the agreement on the resolution of open issues in the law, the establishment of a legal basis for the supplement to increase the work of doctors and other healthcare professionals, the abolition of the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution, by means of a proposal to legally define the scope of the activities of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia funded by membership, basics and criteria for determining membership and supervision of the competent authorities and the State. Further, the removal of certain inconsistencies in the law itself and the detailed arrangements for the specialization of doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u144	Nice greeting, fellow Members, fellow Members, Mr Minister with co-workers, Mr Vice-President! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Services, which is being dealt with in the short term, as it also, of course, eliminates the finding of non-compliance with the rest. Articles 10 and 11 of this proposal eliminates a finding of non-compliance with the Constitution, which the Constitutional Court has already decided that Article 74 of the Medical Service Act is inconsistent with the Constitution, already on 5 June 2003. The then government and, of course, of course, the coalition in the National Assembly had a task by the Constitutional Court to remove this disagreement by 31 December 2003. Thank God that there have been changes and new elections in 2004, because if not, the former government would not have prepared and brought these changes to the National Assembly today. Therefore, we can be pleased to have a minister following the decisions of the Constitutional Court. So this is one of the important and, of course, in a democratic society, one of the most important elements of why it is necessary to amend and regulate the law. Secondly, the proposal for a law is also in line with articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Act on Offences, which, of course, is also necessary. Thirdly, the proposal for a law in Article 13 adds a new chapter which regulates the enforcement of the law and provides that the Ministry will exercise control over the implementation of the provisions of this law. Of course, except for the work relating to the employment of doctors, whose supervision will be carried out by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. I myself remember many of the problems and problems our Slovenes had from the locality and the world when they had to nostrify diplomas. This law, of course, regulates matters in this area, i.e. in accordance with the new Education Act in Articles 1, 2 and 3, this is what, with regard to obtaining school certificates, replaces the Nostration Act because it has caused a lot of problems, as I have already mentioned. One of the flowers of the previous government, which is now being repaired by this government, is, of course, also the failure to comply with the agreement. In fact, some people like to deal with a fig in their pocket, and then they don't realize it. Like the agreement with FIDES, the Medical Chamber and the Ministry of Health. This amendment to the Law in Articles 8 and 9 will now implement this Article 4 agreement on the resolution of open issues and, of course, this is absolutely necessary. One of the important parts of this law is sure to determine the possibility of an additive to increase the volume of work, because once the government has provided over 5 billion resources in last year to reduce and reduce waiting periods, of course it will be possible to do so without it. It's over. The government coalition will also, of course, follow the legislative and legal proposals, so it will upgrade the law with two amendments. This and the law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 24.4.2006. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS Group and the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The purpose of the additional second paragraph of Article 5 is to introduce a call for specialisation, a specialist area for the needs of the public health network, a specialist area with a well-known payer and specialist areas outside the public health network, as the Medical Service Act of Chapter II, the Conditions for medical service, inter alia, governs medical specialisations for which certain amendments and supplements are proposed. The Assembly of the Medical Chamber, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted a regulation on the types and content and duration of specialisation of doctors, which regulates specialisations in Article 14, for purposes outside the public health network. The Medical Chamber shall publish a call within the ISIS and for specialisation in specific specialist areas with a well-known payer, for which there is no legal basis. The purpose of this amendment is, of course, to create a legal basis for such a public invitation to tender. Of course, at the time of this amendment, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that I have already presented it in the context of the views of the Group of Members, that is to say that the law at this point is in fact of very little ambition, so ambition; that it would examine the whole concept of postgraduate training of doctors associated with the so-called doctor deficit in order to ensure that the entire Slovenian space is covered with an adequate number of doctors. These issues are not covered by the proposal of this law. We have received explanations that the government will present the text of the new Medical Service Act or the text that should regulate this area more comprehensively, but of course, we draw attention to the experience we already have with this government, that there have been many predictions and very little realisation. And, above all, those that have not been systematically oriented. Thus, we have today a text that speaks of additions and changes to the medical service law, which only regulates certain content in certain segments, but does not bring more comprehensive solutions. Of course, a more comprehensive solution would certainly be passed on if this government had a clear strategy and attitude towards postgraduate training, i.e. the attitude towards traineeships, the attitude towards secondary education and the attitude towards specialisation. Of course, we hope that the proposal for a text that will more comprehensively regulate this area will have this ambition, so it has the ambition that this government will also present its position in this area in order to allow for the regulation and implementation of specialisations as soon as possible, so that doctors can obtain the necessary education to carry out their profession on their own as possible. Furthermore, the law does not address the problem of specialisation costs in any way. Although I must say that the solutions proposed here are those for which I can agree, because it is unacceptable to have arrangements for those who do not want and have the opportunity to make a specialisation to be replaced by those who want to do so, and to limit their time frame for participating in this process. This is how we would like support for this amendment, because we are not creating anything else with this amendment, in fact, to create a legal basis for the realisation of this public call, which, by the conclusions of the Assembly, the Medical Chamber, in agreement with the Ministry, are already taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u147	Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Since the amendments are identical, at least according to the content, the previous speaker has already said much, I estimate that we are in the Slovenian National Party with the amendment proposal to add a new second paragraph in Article 5, let us simply extend, supplement and clarify Article 5. We estimate that in the context of the whole new Article 5, we do not support this. I also count on and hope for reasonableness and that, respected colleagues and colleagues, this supplement will be adopted and together we will prepare a good draft for the law, which is likely to develop later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u149	I'm closing the debate! We're moving on to Article 8. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, NSI, SLS and DeSUS and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Who wants a word, please? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Given that we have tabled the amendments and we owe the amendments, although we have already explained them in the first part, in the position of the Group of Members, once again, to say very kindly, very humane and reasonable. There are no doctors, we have a law on working relationships that similarly solves problems to reduce waiting periods, for a more active and quality work of doctors does not allow, but we find it foolish that because of a law that does not permit something, patients suffer, so I think it makes sense that an amendment with this content should therefore be made for the implementation of the health care programme to doctors who work full-time within the public health service network with one or more employers, or doctors who already have a contract of employment with the employer, who can conclude a contract of work in accordance with the law governing the bonding relationship. Of course, it's not free to round up the word "up." So this is some kind of business relationship and I think that sometimes we can go through one law to benefit everyone, not just individuals, and if it were a business relationship in line with the bond, it seems to me that we would not violate any laws, but of course we would create a great quality in supplementing the proposed law. I therefore propose to my colleagues that we accept such an amendment as a common benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment to Article 8 of the coalition parties makes sense because it introduces a fuse. In fact, allowances for the increased volume of work can only be obtained if the actual programme of the institution is under the basic contract. For such an addition, it is understandable that funds must be provided on the one hand and it is also right for the Minister to give consent on the exceptions. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Otherwise, additions to the medical service law are necessary, of course there are more reasons, not only this decision by the Constitutional Court, which has already been discussed here. The fact is, in the past, there has been a significant increase in the burden of doctors on basic health care, and this burden comes from several sources. On the one hand, the picture of the population's disease has changed, the demands and expectations of patients have increased, the difficulties of the profession have also increased, and in recent years we have also witnessed a decrease in the absolute number of family doctors or general physicians. On the other hand, we have an increase in the number of elderly people. And secondly, we are dealing with an extremely critical shortage of doctors, where Koroška and Prekmurje are first. This again means the critical burden of doctors, family or general medicine, which is the most lacking in this area. Slovenia is also taking an infamous place somewhere on the tail about the number of doctors per thousand or 100,000 inhabitants as you wish, and the chairman has already talked about this speech today. The establishment of a medical university in Maribor will limit this crisis, but only after years or after a bad decade. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act thus redefines the legal basis for the addition to a doctor for an increase in full-time and full-time work. Health workers have so far been the only ones in the public sector who, when they were on duty, did not receive full pay when they were on duty. A police officer at the Holmec border crossing gets full payment even at midnight or at early morning hours, which is when there is almost no traffic through Holmec, and they get paid as if through a border crossing there was an untransparent column. And it is also right that this is regulated in the field of health. And not just to correct this injustice, especially because the doctors of general rural practice are lacking. And if they're willing to work full-time, then for God's sake they should get a proper payment for it. There is a critical shortage of doctors in Koroška or all three valleys of the Koro region, and without on-call doctors who do not need to be aged, they would probably not be able to provide a 24-hour on-call service in the region. That is why the least we can do is pay them fair and proper. Of course, the chronic lack of doctors in rural areas alone will not be able to resolve this law; other changes will be needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u153	Mr. Mag. Genius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Regarding the burden of doctors, I have to say that the overload is not just where doctors are not enough, but it can be common and has also been in practice where doctors are on the list of required staff, and in fact they are missing due to maternity care, specialization and so on. In our health care home, at some point 10 out of 10 doctors were only 6 at work all the time, and they were working on an increased scale. At that time, we had in the rules that for a time when they are still working for someone else who is missing, they increase their personal income by 30% at regular working hours. This was one form at the time, and the possibility of doing so in a similar way is opened up here in the Medical Service Act, which we agree with. As for the amendments to Article 8, first and third, I think they are unnecessary. In fact, they introduce a contract of the same house in which someone works, with the same doctor who works here, just because there is more work, despite having regular working hours, even an extra contract to do this work. Here I have to say that this does not go for many reasons, but the first is that if there is more work, they can be granted overtime and they are generally approved. Another reason is that there would be severe discrimination against other workers who are needed in the process of providing doctor services, but who do not have the right to perform part of the same services with a doctor under contract, but for overtime or even if it was for other staff to redistribute working time, but also for nurses, is lacking, so I am not sure that this is a good solution and that I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u155	Mr. Germich, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would very much like to join this thought of the forerunner. It would also be very specific to the concerns raised in this regard. While I would like to make it perfectly clear that I do not want to create either a feeling or any other opinion that I do not want doctors and health workers to have their salaries arranged; wages that will create their satisfaction, and in this way, of course, they will be able to carry out all the tasks of ensuring the health care of all of us. Of course, the fear I would like to talk about is that we do not want to write down in this article what we are also reminded of by the legislative and legal service. So we don't want to write down and we don't want to implement the so-called legal principle that says that the substantive basis for sub-legislative acts needs to be regulated by law. In order to determine in more detail the conditions, criteria and extent of payment under the law. Why am I stressing this? I also stress on the basis of monitoring what is happening to this article. Since the government or the ministry had not produced clear principles, there was an amendment to the committee, which, in my view, was only accepted for the purpose of opening the article, so without any substantive justification, since we have only entered in some text to make more detailed arrangements, the Minister or the Government by regulation lays down the conditions in more detail. With this we have not said anything, although we have made an open article - the same story will be in Article 9 - on which today we are trying to enter into the text of the law what this weakness is. If you ask me when I read exactly, because we are talking about an increase in the amount of work both in full-time and in full-time work. Why is it necessary here to have a very transparent view of this government? Because tomorrow the same question will be asked by others. I come from a long time in school. If we do not have a clear criterion here, what is the appropriate scope of work and what is next for all sectors in the public sector, we will also get questions from others. Today I draw attention to this content, because it has already been said on the Committee that such texts should then be recorded not in individual sectoral laws, but in the law governing the public sector wage system. We don't have that today, and it's not on the table here today. I would be very happy, Mr Minister, if you could provide us today with information on how much work health workers, healthcare professionals or all employees will still be able to do in full-time work. To what extent is it going to be, is it going to be 5% of the supplement here, and it's going to be all over this scale, or is it going to be that we're actually going to do something more in regular working time? And where are the reasons why this can't be done now? My question is as follows: because it is not only the content of the resources that are intended to increase the volume of work, because every increased volume of work, I am sure, as a layman I say, will bring additional costs to the provision of a comprehensive service, which brings, say, an increased amount of work for a healthcare professional. We have to have these answers. I have also heard here today that this government has taken care of 5 billion additional funds. Mr. Minister, you know I've warned you about where these billions come from in the budget debate. This is a purely accounting matter in the context of the amendment of the Tax Transport Act. These resources are not expected in the future as some additional package of resources in the healthcare system, or at this point we do not know if this is going to happen. At the same time, we know that the funds you had at your disposal last year were not spent, but you spent about 65% of them. We all want shorter waiting lines. We all want to do our best, but in order to achieve this, we need to have comprehensive solutions so that we do not build on one side and on the other hand we are already undermining the existing system. I'll speak to you at Article 9 on duty. But I would like to touch the amendment. In my view, the text of the proposed amendment may wish to answer the question of defining the conditions, criteria and extent of payment for the increased volume of work. But when I read it, I don't see any of the above, no condition, no criteria, no scope. On the one hand, we say that the public health institution implements the contract programme concluded by the institution under the law governing health insurance. I think that this is so and so on and so on, that this is not a condition that represents the criteria for evaluation, are the funds provided. I do not think that any institution or director of a public health institution will be able to sign this contract if it does not and has obtained the Minister's consent. Of course, we are interested in what are the criteria and criteria for increased workload. There's no way to figure that out. However, I would draw attention to another very important distinction between the text of the first indent of the amendment and the explanation. In the first indent, the proponents write: "The Public Health Institute implements a contract programme concluded by a law-based institution." So it is an incomplete verb "realises", which means that only by performing a health service can already be the basis for an increased scale. While I think they're writing it down correctly. Thus, the public institution, which will take over and implement the additional work programme, should first complete the programme, 'complete' that is, the perfect form, do everything necessary to be done, and from here on we can talk about having an increased volume of work. If it is conscious, of course it creates great doubts. Unless he's conscious of whether there's been a typographical error, which I can understand somehow. Of course, this dilemma, which at least I have, will need to be clarified in principle. I would very much like to stress once again that we have such a pay system that, at least in this area, we are talking about, will ensure a well-paid policy and satisfaction for all health workers. My question is that, given the warning of doctors who talk about falling behind in wages, compared with others who say that the doctor’s relationship with others is wrong. I am afraid that there is very little done here to be able to do what doctors and other health workers expect us to do to provide such material position and such payments as will create satisfaction that will create satisfaction for staying in the health system in the public health network. I don't want doctors fleeing the public health network. I do not want to have the first medical assistance in Slovenia today, with which we have to cover certain health services from our own pocket so that we can achieve some effects. I do not want such privatisations or private introductions that are not transparent. Such a partial solution to these problems does not lead to stability and trust a valuable healthcare system. Try to understand my dilemmas as someone who does not come from health care and I will be a beneficiary of healthcare services in order for us to have to respond publicly to these dilemmas, present them clearly and transparently in terms of greater accessibility, greater efficiency and better health care for the Slovenes and Slovenes. In the end, only what I've said on this point several times. I do not want such a system of regulation to cause the first dominoes to fall, which will continue in the rest of the sectors. We want to see that the provision of a single, transparent and efficient pay system is regulated and that we do not enter into a collective agreement that will regulate these matters. I am afraid that such a partial approach as we are introducing here will not contribute to this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. I believe you've heard from her before? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will discuss this Article in particular and the amendment of the ruling coalition. With this Article 8 and the amendment, and I think we will talk about it most today, this law is actually becoming not a medical service law, but a medical supplement law. This is his, let's face it, the only goal. We have already said in the introduction that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we do not oppose the failure of doctors, teachers, judges to pay well in Slovenia. What we are opposed to, however, is that what today will be, given that the ruling coalition has prepared even an additional amendment to Article 8, which has undoubtedly been adopted, we are opening up today or allowing the plasma to relax. Plaza, Mr. Minister and a dearly respected government that will not be able to stop him. Of course, it is true that this year we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of the medical sentence, and that perhaps that is why the Minister of Health decided that, through law, rather than a difficult discussion of a collective agreement with a possible threat to a sentence, he would solve the problem which he said would result from an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber and Fides of 15 July 2004, which said that the partners would regulate this provision in collective agreements. The government of Mr Janša and Mr Minister, we assume in the full awareness of Minister Virant, Minister of Finance and others, have decided that this will not be done in a collective agreement, but that what we will put into law. Of course, the problem when we discuss this in law is that we are discussing this in the National Assembly, that we are not discussing this, for example, in the context of, or if you want, social dialogue, or at least in the formal institution from which the treasury will be financed. I'm talking about the health insurance program. In particular, there are not many patients in this room or at least not many patient caregivers. If the Minister would like to settle this matter, Minister Virant and Minister Virant should take this matter into account, taking into account all the conditions, the restrictive conditions which they are, this matter should be settled in a collective agreement. However, as a colleague of Germič said from the pay phone, Minister Virnat failed. In another, a much smaller group of public servants, or, if you want, public officials or public servants, with judges, Minister Virant has fallen under the principles of collective bargaining. I can't imagine how, when this law is passed, Minister Virant will answer to the students or Minister Zver will answer to the schoolers, why Minister Bručan has managed to convince Minister Virant, Minister Zver or Minister Zupan of his failure. That is why I say that the result of this law will be mainly the beach, the plasma of new pressure to raise wages, because every public servant, when comparing this right to be given to judges in this law, will believe that such a right belongs to him too. What's the result? The result will be that, in the end, it is likely that Mr Bručan will succeed in convincing the Minister of Finance that there is a need to raise the contribution rate in order to end up running out of money. In the end, money will run out because this year is going to require 1.6, and in the second year, there will be more resources to be provided within the health insurance institution and some other rights will therefore need to be reduced, or another health expense will be reduced. Whether these are medicines or something else, it will be decided on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, according to its banal amendment proposed by the Members of the ruling coalition, which says that the supplement can only be awarded if the public institution implements the programme, and colleague Germić has already talked about this if the funds are provided and he has obtained the Minister's consent. Funds can always be provided for salaries, but something else will not be paid. Mr Bručan will recall that last year, on a proposal from this government, we took over the debt of health bills past the public treasury, which is said to be those things for which the health treasury did not cover the liabilities, and the state budget had to. The funds will always be provided for salaries. And then, in the end, he won the Minister's consent. In fact, the Minister of Health will now become Mr Minister for wage-setting in individual public health institutions. It's a very important function. Let me tell you that then I don't know why we really need collective bargaining and why we need some kind of consensus search. If we add to what we are doing or are doing in this law today the pressure of concessionaires or the pressure of some at least in my opinion of vague determination, and who should not go into concession, the consequences for Slovenian health treasury will be very clear. More money will be given primarily to cover, if you want, in ordering them, "fixed costs of wages", and less money will be for the additional programme or for the payment of those services that are linked to the individual implementation of the works, so there will be less money for medicines and less money for health rights. In fact, through the Medical Supplement Act today, we decide what is more important, and the rights of two million Slovenians and Slovenes or insured persons in the Slovenian health system or the rights of some 39,000 others are some of the health workers according to the latest statistics, or of course they pay. And I regret that we will open up a plasma on a 10-year medical sentence in the Slovenian health system, which will not only lead to an increase in the salaries of doctors, but will lead to an uncontrolled increase in the salaries of other segments of the public sector. From such a promoted wage reform in the Slovenian public sector, I fear there will be no big deal left. But power is sweetness and the easiest thing to share, Mr. Minister, is the easiest to share, the harder it is to negotiate within the framework of collective agreements, the harder it is for doctors to face the views of schoolchildren, judges and others. Therefore, of course, I think that the way in which you proposed to regulate things that should be dealt with in a collective agreement is an inappropriate way. That's why I'm going to oppose the law in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinec, did you want a word? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll keep going around where my colleagues ended up. I certainly would not want doctors to feel that they were underpaid for their professional work and were looking for other options, not least for those who would then be less inclined and, above all, more expensive. However, I would like to point out one fact. Not long ago, we here have heard Minister Virant strive to unify the pay system to perform various supplements. Now I feel like the left hand in the government doesn't know what the right hand is doing. Well, exactly what we're seeing right now is one of the additions again. And we are faced with a proposal for an supplement before the first law even entered into force. If I keep thinking about where this is going. Of course it leads to the next reptile. Of course, I'd rather compare doctors with teachers, not least judges, and finally when he's finally with the cops. What does this mean now, above average, or within regular working time? Or this means that doctors have estimated that their standards are too high, sometimes machine strikes have raised standards that the others had to achieve, and now they want to lower these standards by otherwise reaching higher wages. I wonder what that means, like, in a classroom or in a classroom or in a school. If then one student, a student, is more than prescribed, then this is the average volume or if the teacher speaks faster, takes more material, will it be valued as well? I point only to the fact that the matter is as entrenched as it is, it is certainly not sufficiently clearly defined and that is why many of the dangers and, above all, the reptiles are experienced. And what's the worst? A justifiable plaza of all those who will follow this supplement and who will, of course, by their proposals and not least by blackmail, if this is the background of this proposal, reach, compared to doctors, if they receive it, certainly eligible supplements. Let me conclude by saying that I really want doctors to receive such a payment that they think is worthy and worthy of their work, but I stand for clear provisions and fair and equal rules of the game of all professional workers who receive a salary from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Genius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u162	In any case, a few words must be said at the expense of this second amendment of our parliamentary groups, where I understand if funds are provided, and in the way that these funds are past those provided for the implementation of the programme to 100%. That is to say, if there is more money, if there is anything additional to the programme signed with the ZZZ, because there is more work to be done and there is a need to do it, or if it is funds to appear as a result of work in any healthcare institution or individual doctor or private physician on the market, it is from self-payers or by working organisations and beyond. I don't think this could be done in an environment where they create a loss for a regular program. There you should first ask yourself what is done during regular work hours, who has fulfilled, who is not and why, who is missing and why. We know that the clinical center has continuous losses; on the other hand, we find that almost a third of them a day are elsewhere than at work. This is a monstrous information that is incompatible with all the data of this type in the wider environment of the country, for example in the European Union. That 30% or even more are absent is a serious problem that no one seems to be dealing with. In the iron industry, which was supposed to be very difficult, Germany already had a hospital stock of 4.5% 30 years ago, including professional supplementation taking a lot of time in these health institutions. But when I was determining professional completion in the health care home, when there were no doctors and there was no one to work with, we didn't do it to the extent that was determined by the industry agreement for three weeks, but we used five, seven days a year and nothing more. They went less, and they had to endure the news and what was important for the profession, then at the internal trainings or meetings of colleges, doctors, and so on, to ensure that the needs of people waiting in the waiting room were met. A colleague from a clinical center who is already retired told me that no one thinks about it at the clinical center. They go three weeks to supplement, who will pay, where the money, who will do the work at that time, they are not interested. So I would continue to ask what the bosses are doing there, why someone is missing, what they did during their regular working hours, whether they are kind of to make it easier to get extra money out of their pocket this afternoon in the form of self-payment. I would also ask a few questions about whether doctors really need specialists, whether they are as good, 17 meters of yachts and sailboats and so on, and whether it is necessary to enrich them in a few years when some families or people have to work for a few generations to create suitable possessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps as a brief comment to Mr. Žnidaršič on what he said. For example, a billion 600 tolls, as far as this so-called supplement is concerned, are defined in the 2005 regional agreement of hospitals as, I am talking about the same amount of money, a very precise cardiovascular programme, which for each of the hospitals that implements this, tells us exactly how many operations will be carried out. Or else. I don't know where an extra billion 600 will come from. But I do know that a billion 600 is so much and so many chronographies and so on, or that 3,300 operations of the grey eclipse cost 473 million in the additional hospital programme of the health insurance institution. And if you say and write in article of the law that the funds are provided and all the money is allocated, very precisely allocated into the basic and additional health programme, you need to tell us what you will reduce. And if you're giving a billion 600 for something, then you're gonna have to take a billion 600 somewhere. And it's a billion 600, if we convert it from a grey-dark operation, almost 12,000 operations of gray-dark to know what we're talking about. And it's simply not possible to write down that the funds are provided. If it were written here that additional funds were provided from either additional resources or from no savings and it would be specified which savings and where they are, then some of them could be believed. But to say that the funds are provided and then, I don't know, a program is being implemented when we know what a billion 600 means in the very hard negotiations that took place in 2005, the minister knows them, somewhere from the fall of 2004 to May 2005, there are only a billion 600 so many and so many operations of gray shadows or, if you want, so many and so many cardiovascular programs. And that's why we're talking about giving today's medical supplement to those you say have too many yachts, I don't know, a billion 600 extra money for supplements, and then the minister should tell us where the health department is going to fund it. That's not what the documents show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My predecessors discussed more or less everything else, only the amendment to Article 8. And here we hear a lecture on things that are not even the subject of this law. Mr Cwickl, where the Ministry will provide these funds, is certainly not the subject of this law that we are considering today. He certainly has those solutions. I would start here, health care is certainly some good we all want and need, but it is only appreciated when we need it. For this reason, I believe that the role of the State, as well as the Ministry of Field Affairs, is primarily to try to provide health care as much as possible, which means that health care is quality, that it is flexible and that it is also able to adapt to situations that can actually be different from day to day. How do we do this? This is certainly not easy, for if this were easy, such solutions would probably already be sought and implemented in previous mandates. However, I am sure that by this law, which we are considering today and which we will also confirm, we will certainly end or adopt solutions that will bring some positive changes, as well as a solution to health care itself. If we now touch on this Article in concrete terms, I am also sure that such an amendment as has been tabled does not need to be made from the SD's position. I myself support the amendment tabled by the coalition, because any increase in the amount of work as well as excessive work during duty periods must be covered by financial means, and this is also the first condition that must be ensured that the director of an institution can also order such work. We are listening here to the evidence that the law that we are about to adopt today, or at this meeting, is what caused some reptiles in other areas, that we are actually discussing here what a just system of wages is. I am sure that this is always something we can discuss indefinitely, and we will never find such solutions to be consensual for all. Are Teachers ’ Wages Fair? If I ask them, I'm sure they won't. They're too low. We're facing court fees. That's where we can see that they're not happy. I'm sure the doctors aren't, and they're not. Anyone you ask would say he's not happy with it. We have a relationship that is currently in force, and also a public sector wage law that we have adopted, has somehow tried to settle this issue. However, I do not understand why this law, which we are adopting today, should go into a wage relationship. On the question already addressed by one of the Members to Minister Virant, he made it very clear that this law does not interfere with the wage ratio, that it does not interfere with the determination of basic wages, nor with how these allowances should be charged. Thus, I do not see any fear here, for any disapproval of other areas, but I am in favour of the fact that doctors, as well as others who are employed in health care homes or hospitals, can exercise that right for excessive or extended work to get paid justly, as others in other areas do. This law also solves other things that should have been solved in the past. We know that the Constitutional Court's decision ordered that these legal voids be resolved by the end of 2003, and we have not done so. And also the agreement reached between Fides and the Minister of Health in the previous term, in some ways, the law itself resolves. I will support this law, and I will also support the amendment of the coalition that it has tabled under this Article. And I'm sure it will contribute significantly to a higher quality of the medical service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u168	It's a replica of a fellow Member of Parliament. Look, Mr. Ambassador. On page 7, government material, the assessment of the financial implications of the proposal for a state budget and other public funds, second paragraph, that, in order to implement the amendment of the law or to change the mode of payment of on-calls, it will be necessary to redistribute, I emphasise, by reallocation under the funds of the health insurance institution, about 1.6 billion tolars. In 2005, the Health Insurance Office provided a billion 600 per patient with a specific area agreement to carry out cardiovascular surgery or, if you want, 660 million for 130 additional nurses, 100 million tolars for approximately 1720 additional tolls for computer tomography, etc. You'll take a billion 600 from the extra program, for example, and you'll pay for it. I don't know where you're going to take it from, but certainly, with this decision today, the National Assembly is going to intervene significantly in the health insurance program. Therefore, to say that this will not have an impact after the government has written itself that 1.6 billion will have to be redeployed, so that it will not be possible to implement, as in 2005, an additional programme of 1.6 billion is simply a denial of the facts that your government has sent to the National Assembly. That is why it seems inappropriate to us in this way, without the provision of real resources, because the reduction of patients' rights is not a real resource, this law should be adopted. If this were to be accepted under the collective agreement, then one of the basic issues that would follow in the arbitration and the basic negotiations on what the programme of individual public health institutions would be could in some way be appropriately included. This way, the law will be adopted, this will be the norm, this will be a new right and this right will be taken care of in public health institutions first and will run out of money for something else. However, if the Minister of Health has a promise from the Minister of Finance that he can increase the contribution rate by so much that there is no need to reduce rights, then say so here. The government doesn't talk about it in documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u169	Mr. Germich, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much again for your word. I am very pleased that colleague Žnidaršič has actually spoken about the content that we are talking about from our own species, because he is certainly more familiar with the subject than I am with, given that I am only a user of the health system. And exactly what Mr Žnidaršič was talking about, we want answers when we decide on these changes in marriage. That's what we want to talk about. And I'm talking about exactly what the criteria are, that we all know publicly about this, but not that it's sectorally defined for each area, because if I do an analogy or as a teacher, if I've processed all the substance prescribed in three quarters of a year, or that means I'm entitled to a performance allowance. I agree that we are not all the same, in education we were never all the same. And even in health care, we are not all the same, and I agree that a selective approach is taken with stimulation to success. In doing so, I cannot ignore everyone else, because I want the public sector wage system to be consistent with everyone and I do not want the blockades that could be caused by sectoral treatment. Of course, I cannot agree at all that it is not essential for the Minister to receive funds for an increased scale, then I must ask him if it is not essential that this is not a matter of public funding. If this is not a matter of public funds, then it is necessary to ask where the resources are for these funds, so this is a very important question of where the resources will be for these funds and, of course, we are deciding through the budgets on the resources we provide through public funding. I would like to draw attention here to what my colleague Žnidaršič said. We do not have a clear picture today of what the losses are in public health institutions. Every year or for many years we have been faced with this problem, I would be very pleased if today the Minister could assure that none of the health institutions has lost and that the situation is, of course, quite clear, but given that some of the data at least from Primorska is that there is a rather excessive loss here. And while we are still talking about creating a loss to achieve the regular scope of work, the question, of course, is how big this hole is going to be. We are simply pointing out this, once again ensuring that we are of course supporting the effort. In fact, if I were to be corrected, I should congratulate Minister Bručan on being able to do something that other ministers may not have been able to do, to regulate a system that says that this is regulated through the public sector's salary system. In view of the fact that it has been said that Mr Virant correctly answered my question about the public sector wage system, I would like to quote here once again Article 32 of the Public Sector Wage System Act, which clearly states in paragraph 5 that the amount of the allowances referred to in this Article for public servants is determined by a collective contract for the public sector. It's just that it's explicitly written here. The questions and dilemmas that we have, whether we have in the text of an article that speaks of an increase in volume, the criteria and criteria that will be publicly written for this to be transparent, for the Minister to be able at any time to explain this clearly to his other ministers, the government, in what way he has regulated it in the health sector, so that others can manage it successfully, without prejudice to what kind of shocks within the system. This is the only way to go. I will be very pleased if we get clear, transparent answers that this is of course done, that there will be no backlog in these negotiations and that we will come up with consistent solutions for the entire public system. Of course, you just have to let us ask these questions here, given that the material is prepared as it is, and that there are not all the answers here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I try to be very brief all the time, and I do not tell you how I understand, as a patient, any content, and that I also have absolute respect for the opinions of colleagues before me who know each other or the finances and the second and third. But it seems to me that one of the key questions that some may not understand is the answer to. If we are talking about the amendments to Article 8, which allow for a particular business contract, I am really not clear now. I would like to know whether this business contract for the performance of normal work continues after the end of the regular work or whether it is a business contract that can be concluded by a minister or a secretary, according to friendship, during working hours. Because, last of all, I understand, the patient is sitting and the patient, who, I don't know, is waiting until 7:30 p.m., the doctor goes by, the real patient, yeah, what about the three of us who are still waiting. And I don't know, I'm cariculating that someone would say, yes, sorry, we can't conclude with him because of the labor contract law, so that this gentleman can now continue his work. He's gone. Come back in a week. That's what I think people are interested in. But we are, of course, right colleagues, and we are obliged to understand how these conditions will be, except of course the moral and ethical qualities that a doctor must have. The doctor would be required to work indefinitely because there are no others, but he will extend for another three hours. If we ask everyone, the only one who does this, at least I can speak for myself, but I think that for most of our colleagues in this National Assembly, it is us who have no overtime and have nothing. Our employee is from here until we're done. And there's a lot of them. And if everyone behaves that way, colleagues and colleagues, it doesn't work, so I think it would be right, although I know that the government has a word at the end, that the minister should say, no, in this case, that if everything is done in regular working hours, given that we are not going to complicate all matters now, we have some opportunity to conclude a business contract with someone outside of work time and this person will stay and do it because he is there and because he is used to doing it and because he is doing it. That's what I'm interested in. And if that's it, I don't think there can be any obstacles here, but I'm asking if that's it, because now I'm getting less and less clear when, who, with whom, and how to make such or other contracts. In fact, it is not possible for someone to perform on the basis of business contracts during regular working hours, but I do not know how much extra work is yet, which is, of course, totally incomprehensible. Here are some similarities between the judiciary and the authorities. However, the content of the work, respected colleagues and colleagues, at least I think, is slightly different for our fellow citizens and the fact is that despite the joy of opening the medical faculty in Maribor, we lack doctors. Why? That's another problem. We'll deal with this another time in a different marriage. In this case, we save and propose some solutions to have a sufficient number of doctors to provide quality and timely services. That's how I understand it. However, if the Minister confirms to us that it is possible to provide health services and enter into business contracts after working hours, then I do not see what the dispute would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u173	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! This is where we debated all sorts of things. I must say that I have heard little about Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8, except now at the end of Mr Barovic, who spoke the most about Article 8. Otherwise, we have been solving health care in its entirety, talking about various health problems that have been piling up for a long time, and which we have somehow started to solve recently, as we think is good, and which already show some very good results at least in reducing waiting times. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the amendment to Article 8 to allow for the signing of business contracts with employees in their own public office, if I may say so, but always for the work done on a regular basis as an additional work. That's how I understand this amendment. I must say that we have also proposed a solution in a different direction, in the same way as the judges have already arranged before us to shorten judicial backlogs. It's a similar way. Why not an amendment method in terms of business contracts within the public office itself? Because of the prohibition of this roofing law, it allows other laws to regulate it at the same time. However, if these things are actually regulated in one law yes, but not in others, I think that what you are afraid of in this proposal of ours would happen, which, of course, this proposal does not lead to. I think that the only reason is that we somehow would not have signed agreements in the future within the public institutions themselves. Of course, it is a matter that can be debated in the future, but not only for one area, but for the whole area, not only for health care, but also for other areas. In fact, I do not object to this, but in this case this would mean, at least in my opinion, serious problems and would also constitute inequalities between the various branches of the public sector. I cannot answer all your concerns about those that have not touched this Article 8. I am only talking about Article 8 and, of course, it is not about higher wages in this case, what we propose, it is not about paying performance, it is about paying extra work where it is necessary, and also with the money provided by law. You discussed paragraphs 8 and 9, in parallel, so I don't really know what that reason was. We're talking about Article 8. We are not talking about this point yet in the 9th article, which is still under discussion. There's no billion 600 million here, we haven't talked about it. This is a specific appropriation set out in the specific programme for an additional programme outside the working time. And the reason for this was not in anything other than that we decided to do so simply because it was true that paying this additional part of doctors, not just doctors, including everyone else in health care, was miserable in the event that, at some point of emergency, we were doing a business that could not otherwise be done at a regular time and for which additional funds were provided. And that's all we wanted. If I tell you as an example that, for example, for an operation, a doctor operating on Saturday, this extraordinary program after the current system of cheers was paid for the operation of a hernia perhaps 6.7 thousand dollars, which would have come on Sunday morning or Sunday afternoon, that we would not have reduced the waiting period in any case, especially if the funds were provided for it, as they were in this case, and it turned out that we had already in the last three months of this previous year exactly as we had solved the problem in this way and also in this way reduced the waiting periods. In those billions of 600 and other things, perhaps later when there will be talk about the article that this billion-sixth belongs to.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, I tried to follow the text of Article 8 of the amendment. Of course, I would have warned you in this regard that we have two problems here. One problem is that it's only about regulating this area that you've been talking about, so it's an additional scope of work. Of course, it is impossible to talk only about this content if we do not see the whole public sector in which we believe it can have consequences. And that's what we've warned you about. The second thing I'd like to say, however, would require an explicit answer from you. When I read this article, Mr Minister, I read it many times, I allow myself not to understand it either. You've said it a few times that it's out of the ordinary. I will now read the text of this article, which I do not believe to be the case: where, due to the additional scope of the work of the public health institution, there is an increase in the work volume or additional work burdens for a doctor in full-time public health care, within the full-time working time and the work allowed through full-time working time, how to understand this in the way that you have interpreted that in no case is the extent of work within regular time. [[....]] Either the doctrine here is not clear or it allows for different interpretations. If only one of us could be right, whether you or I. For if we are talking about both options within working time and full-time, then both options are open. You said there was only one open. This is the only place I would ask you for a clear explanation of my doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u177	Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u178	Sure. In fact, there are now some exceptional situations in which certain additional payments could also occur within working time. This is when it comes, say, to an operation that requires surgery, for example, work within the annual working time. But these are exceptions. In any case, any such additional work in the government will have to be explained and accepted by the government. This is mainly a full-time job.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u179	Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u180	What the minister said at the end, excuse me, Mr. Minister, the amendment says you'll have to explain it to you. You, as Minister of Health, are expected to give this consent under the amendments of the ruling coalition. That way, I don't see any government in this matter anymore. It is true, however, that we both know that you left this dictatorship in your working time so that you could already do what you did after work while the teams were waiting for regular working hours. But this is already a matter of organization that you, as the competent ministry, supervise. But the amendment says it will be given by the minister, not by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u181	I conclude the debate on Article 8 and put into discussion Article 9 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members and the amendment of the two proposers, namely the SD Group of Members and the SNS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Barovich, please, and Mr. Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I'll be very short this time, too. The amendment, drafted by the Slovenian National Party, also wants to help prevent patients from suffering mainly due to time delays and the quality of work. I have to say that I don't know myself and that I respect the complexity of the work of all doctors, I respect them because it's hard work and I don't know whether their psychophysical abilities are such that they don't allow them to be on duty after 50 years of age or not. However, when it comes to solving the problem of the shortage of health workers, when there is a large number, with all due respect, of very good-quality older doctors who are happy to help people, it seems perfectly normal for an amendment to Article 9 that gives a doctor who has completed 55 years of age not to have to perform on-call service. The proposal for a law in Article 9 is an option for a doctor who has reached the age of 50 and does not need to be implemented. I know you can tell me that this doctor will still be doing maybe 10 years, but I'm sure there's a lot of doctors who would take as some minimum base 55 years of age and then make decisions because after 50 years of age, I believe they're still capable of having psychophysical abilities and they want to do it. However, we are assured that we have some number of people who are actually a member, if this amendment were accepted, obligatory, now nice or ugly, bonding is, in my opinion, also in medical ethics the feeling and desire of doctors to help people. I appreciate, think and suggest to my colleagues that in this case we actually accept this amendment and that we say that we believe in the psychophysical and other abilities of doctors up to the age of 55 and that we give them this bond by this year and the opportunity later to help people, rather than leave them at the age of 50, we leave it to doctors. Last but not least, you know, I speak in person, but I wouldn't like it if a vital, capable, wonderful doctor said at 51 years of age, "Now I don't have to do this anymore and I'd rather go to the concession." And it will be all its energy, power and willpower with all the right it has to itself, go into private waters and into some, of course, which is normal today, capitalist waters, when we can only bind it by law to help us. All of the places you're coming, you probably have a list of two or three doctors who were 70 years old, and people loved them, and these doctors loved them very much, so I don't see any problems if you decide and say, as the amendment to Article 9 said in the last paragraph: The doctor who completed instead of the basic text 50, 55 years of age does not need to perform the duty. I think it's a very fair move, and I hope we'll take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment with the same content was on the Health Committee, the text of this amendment, like almost most others, was proposed by the Association of Health Institutions, it was summarised, but it did not receive support on the Committee, unfortunately no, I also stress this because we find this very rarely under the same text signed by the two parliamentary groups, namely the Social Democrats and the Slovenian National Party, this time it happened. As a rule, doctors over 50 are on duty, rarely are those who give up on duty, and in fact we were also aware of this at the board meeting. But the law, as it is written now and as it can be applied in practice, allows those who do not wish to do so at the age of 50 to say, "I have reached the age of 50 and will not be on duty." They remind me, above all, that this is an opportunity for all doctors, which is perfectly normal, those who have obtained the concession, i.e. private ones. And at the age of 50, a private person can decide not to be on duty anymore, usually on call in health homes. This can cause further complications where the complications are already very present today, so we find out that there are no doctors in the past, and it would be good to raise this age limit or the right of doctors in the law 50 years to 55 years. In fact, this will mean that the practice already in place today will continue, but, as I said, in the event that this could be used, it would provide at least five more years of doctors on duty who would otherwise stop on duty at the age of 50. Something will need to be done in order to obtain a new staff kit, new doctors, because it will not be enough to solve the problems we are facing. This also raises the issue of quality and quantity. How much of a limit is there when doctors are still able to work, even if they agree that during the working time prescribed by the law, they will now be able to do so, but this is already related to another time. When we talk about lack of doctors, we kind of touch privates and then we get to grant concessions. By granting concessions, we will not shorten our species and we will not strengthen our duties. This is just like one of the banks, when the saver came to pay the bill, and the employee told him, and the pardon in your account is no financial means, you can't pay the bill; he said, but I'll write the check. This is similar with the concession to regulate the lack of doctors. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to what I have also said on behalf of the Group of Members at the outset. We need a new national health programme, a strategy on how health policy will take place in the future. We don't have it, the old man ran away in 2004 and is probably in preparation for a new one, but this one will have to come to the National Assembly and we will probably have to talk seriously about this in order to determine the path and direction of health care in the future. So, supporting this amendment, which says that from the age of 50 to 55, is certainly a contribution to facilitating the functioning of public institutions, in order to facilitate the functioning of the on-call service, which, of course, is necessary and which we are obliged to take care of. So I propose that, when we vote on this amendment to support this amendment; until we adopt health strategies, in the field of health, I really suggest to you, Minister, that by granting the concession, you do not go too far to the right, overtaking the right can be dangerous.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Contic. Mrs Breda Pecan has the word, then Mr Germich, and then for once none, so I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u186	On the right can be rushed to Britain, Ireland, but not yet in Europe. I would like to support the amendment, which my colleague, Bojan Kontic, has also advocated. In particular, because I have been looking forward to it, I must say honestly that a medical service law has been opened, and I was even sure that in the basic text of the amendments to the law it will already provide that there will be no need to apply for this amendment. Because I think I can say this from practice that this limit is 50 years only seemingly no problem, because doctors are prepared to be on duty after 50 years. That's not true. In the vast majority of cases, they do not want to be on duty after the 50th year and are not on duty because they have the right to refuse to be on duty. In particular, concessionaires in primary health care do not want to do this, and as a result, we have great problems in the municipalities responsible for ensuring that primary health care works, especially in those municipalities where they are employed in nursing homes in the older generation, if I may say so. When the basic law was adopted when this age limit was established, I was in the National Assembly at the time, and I objected because I thought it was funny that in a country where the time is set for a doctor to achieve full working capacity, usually between 33 and 35 years old, and those who are 33 years old, what is called general medicine specialists, they reached that age very early. Although we know that they are on duty as soon as the exundariat is finished, even those who finish the second-rate are almost 30 years old. It is said that all together they have an obligation to join on-call for a maximum of 20 years. In fact, many of them are even less. And if we compare the medical profession with other professions, where people also have to be available after 50 years and have no choice, they have no right to say, no, I won't be on duty duty, but they have to be available because it's part of their profession. What's so special about the medical profession, no offense that at the age of 50 he's incapable of working on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, nights and so on? What's so special about the medical profession? At the age of 50, for God's sake, man is no longer creative, but most of all he knows, he is the most capable of doing it. Creativity, they say it stops 50 years ago, even though I don't believe it, because we have hundreds of thousands and millions of cases of people who can do a lot more creative after the 1970s. Doctors after Slovenia are casta, which becomes unable to work at the time of rest at the age of 50. I think this is unsustainable, and I have also heard that the Medical Chamber has objected to extending the length of time in which doctors could stop participating on duty. I think it's 55 years of age, too. You know, I'm gonna be 60 this year, and no one's asking me if I can answer the call on Sunday, Saturday or whenever I can do something. Although it is true that I will not examine the patient because it is not my job, but my responsibility is just as great as that of the doctor, since I can do a lot of things wrong, let’s say that if I go to a decision on Sunday night or solve a problem, I’m talking about congregation service. And for that, I beg you not to take this as an assault on a medical profession. You know, I also have doctors in my family, young doctors, and here I would like to put the minister on his soul when I say that the health system is exploiting them, young doctors, just on the basis that they have to be on duty and very poorly paid for it. Very bad, as far as I know, they get just for lunch for a ride. But I wouldn't go into this, and I don't mean to say that they're victims of the system. However, it is a fact that they are used at the expense of these doctors who do not want to be on duty after 50 years. And I think it would be a good idea here, because those doctors over 50 years of age, of course, almost felt like they were on duty for such little money. And it's not about the profession, it's about the status of some people who fought for their very good lobbying about 14 years ago, I think. And here I think the new government could turn away and say, let's all be equal before the law - doctors and those who are not doctors.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. I don't know if I can afford this observation, but hold on to your years. Otherwise, let me kindly remind you that we are discussing the 9th Article and the amendment of the said parliamentary groups, and I invite Mr Germić to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Such a relaxed atmosphere is needed, which certainly has a beneficial effect on health, and the subject is one that must have a favourable impact on the health of individuals. Look, I'd touch both the amendments. First of all, I would like to touch this amendment, which colleague Kontić and colleague Pečanov spoke about before me. In fact, this amendment was tabled on the Committee and there may have been insufficient consideration of this content. When I took a closer look at the reasons for this question, I also looked at other laws and ways in which it was arranged. Given that the law on judicial service lex specialis is a law governing only doctors. However, I would like to point out that in this law we have two specific provisions which include in the Medical Service Act all health workers and health workers, which is very unusual, because once I have said in the position of the Group of Members, the Government, if it has a clear strategy, should bring a package that would have arranged, if it wanted, consistent for all employees. Why am I saying this? Because this has a very strong bearing on the fact that we have a 50-year limit in the last indent of Article 9. In the Act on Working Relations in Chapter Five, the protection of older workers refers to the special protection enjoyed by workers over 55 years of age. And what's the dilemma now? Given that we have a special law for doctors, we also have a regulation that regulates precisely, under what conditions this matter goes to doctors, and in Article 18, we have written that this applies to everyone else. This means that I am explaining to myself that this last indent also applies to all other employees in the healthcare system. And I wonder if that was the way it was meant to be. This means that it will also be necessary for everyone to write a sublegal act, that is to say how the conditions are regulated under which, therefore, the doctor can no longer write, but the doctor, the healthcare professional, the health worker does not need to perform the duty. I wonder if this was the intention of Article 9? I don't think so, which is why both paragraphs 17 and 18 came in because there was no use within the medical species, but there was little thought in that. The consequences that this will bear, however, will be very important if we do not know clearly what this means today, because in my opinion we have moved this limit of 55 for all on-callers, i.e. 24-hour health care, to the limit of 50 years after the analogy of Article 18. Today, I would ask for a clear answer that this was simulated, studied and that it is not possible to expect any problems in doing so. Of course, I do not think so, so I will support the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Of course, under the first amendment, this is the amendment of the four groups of Members, when I read this amendment, I must ask myself whether this amendment is not in terms of what is earlier, chicken or egg. Because when you try to enter the criteria for how we will evaluate active and inactive hours, we will first write that down according to the recorded amount of work in the current month or average of the past months. Once we have recorded without the criteria, we will not know how it is recorded, how this delimitation took place, but we will write in a more detailed act the criteria for defining active and inactive hours than in Article 8. Here, too, I think that the content is poorly conceived and that there will be major problems when this needs to be clearly written. It will be necessary to write down within a very short period of time in order to avoid different understandings. At the same time, Mr Minister, you were not on the committee, so I could not ask you there, asking why, in your opinion, I know that if I were you, I would be glad that this agreement was concluded, and it is also stated in the agreement that this content is regulated in collective agreements, not in the law that you have succeeded. But what were the reasons? Predicted pressure from doctors on this strike, the stagnation of collective bargaining and so on. I warn you in terms of what I'm talking about before it's a partial rescue. At the same time, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, I have concerns, we are talking about a billion 600. We're talking billions and 50 million for doctors, we're talking 50 million for medicine, and we're talking 500 million for health workers, for health workers. These funds will be obtained by redistributing funds to the health treasury. Is it your assessment that this will not violate the scope of insurance rights? Isn't this exactly what will minimize the previous article's text, the reduction of waiting lines, because here we will be able to achieve exactly the opposite effect due to the outflow of funds. And I'm interested in the relationship between doctors: nurses or health workers and workers and medicine, which criteria have been taken into account for this cut, because the number of relationships are significantly different, and it would be very uncomfortable to share these funds and the key to sharing them so that someone has a better and some worse position in access to these funds. I'm sure, Mr. Secretary, you can answer my dilemmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Gremich. Today, though, they are not parliamentary questions, but, Mr Minister, if you want a word, you have this option if anyone else wants it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u190	Of course, I have a whole series of questions to answer. Now I'm gonna start at the end so I don't forget. In fact, this cut is made on the basis of current on-call payments and no one is disadvantaged, none is better than it is now, and so it will be in the future when we arrange the payment of on-calls in a more appropriate manner as we now propose. I do not see any problems here, there will be no violation of the scope of rights in any way, of the rights of insurers for individual programmes, services, interventions, so that I can also answer at this point and say here that the scope of rights will not be violated at any point. Now, if we touch those 55s. I may agree with myself. In fact, this time of 50 years is relatively low and I stopped on duty when I was very close to 60, so I never took advantage of that opportunity. However, when I was on call to work in an emergency room where there was a difficult business, three months before they were 50 years old, some on call were happy to say that they would be 50 years of age in three months and would no longer be on duty. In short, it's different duty stations, where situations are very different, and from an ER to any other place where business is significantly easier, so these things are relative. I want to tell you something here, we do not change the entire medical service law, we only change what is absolutely necessary in relation to the Constitutional Court and what is urgently needed to deal with some of the pay problems that arise in the field of medical salaries in the last year and have a cause in four years after 2000. We are not amending the whole law, we are proposing a short amendment to the Medical Service Act to a greater extent than is now envisaged, where we will also take into account these comments, which are certainly some of the comments I have heard here today, are certainly justified, but in the area of precisely these 55 years for once a consensus has not been reached. I think we need to reach some consensus here also with medical organisations, but all efforts are going in this direction so that this limit, which is now 50 years old, will be regulated in the future as a whole. Now, for the time being, I think this proposal is still premature. On the other hand, there were some differences between young and old in paying. The Council pays completely different medical bills at the time of its development; at the time of its learning, doctors are relatively underpaid but work very hard around the world. Significantly more are present at work than older colleagues, but in front of him this young man, who is relatively poorly paid for his work when he is still learning, has a perspective on which his status, both financial and social, will be significantly greater when he does his job in a couple of years and will then work independently, that is a huge difference. I even think that our secondarys are relatively well paid today compared to specialists, and this difference between secondary and specialist is very small if we look at some of the world's situations. At this point, I recommend, in fact, that we do not accept this amendment today, but that we discuss it when we talk about the whole legislative system, the whole medical service law, which is not so far away from today. I must say this moment that I do not support the increase of this period to 55 years; not with this belief that this is wrong, but because not even consensus has been reached yet, but it will probably have to be reached in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u192	Only what Mr Minister said would be very interesting, saying that it is too early for the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats and of the Slovenian National Party, but at the same time I assume that it is early enough for this, of course, to dictate Article 18, that this provision of Article 42 of the Law will apply to all, including other healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals, so not only to doctors. I look forward to amending the Medical Service Act, if these really go into ensuring greater efficiency in the health sector, but, Minister, on the one hand, you are against an amendment that would extend to some, but at the same time, I do not know whether you are in fact going to be able to refuse duty after 50 years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I didn't mean to advertise, more or less listen to this debate, but in these positions, which Comrade Squeakle here represents, I still have to say that I don't understand something, something doesn't add up. He keeps saying that if what the government has adopted and agreed with FIDES was to be done under the collective agreement, then it would be fine, but if the medical service law is being amended, that is not right. At the same time, it suggests that the amendment should be accepted and amended, which apparently has been in force in agreement with doctors since before, it is said that at the age of 50 they can refuse to be on duty. It is said that, just as with the amendment, without going in agreement with them, the state council here should accept something, come into a situation where they would probably have Fides against themselves again, because they would accept something that is not agreed with the doctors at this time. It seems strange to me, too, that when someone is 50 years old, he can say, "I won't be on duty anymore." As far as I know, I worked alone for a while in the veterinary service, the vets were on duty at 65 years old, just before retirement, and they were still on duty because they could, there were not all of these arrangements, and there were so many institutes and unions like Fides and so on. There's, uh, some depravedness here, dear fellows. So, we would be dealing with something with a collective agreement, we would be negotiating and we could not agree on anything else, and we would be able to resolve something else with the amendment and make some kind of agreement, under question by voting in the National Assembly. Here I think that you would encounter great problems, and such solutions would certainly not contribute to what you and your colleagues have said about ensuring efficiency, accessibility [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u195	Mr Sok, there's only one thing I can warn you, Mr Squeakle can't polyminate with you anymore, given the limited time. I'd ask you to just talk, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u196	Yeah, he can't answer all those things. Similarly, if I were to be like that, I would be drawn to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u197	I'll give him some time so he can answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u198	Unfortunately, this is not possible under the Rules of Procedure, so please, Article 9 and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u199	Here today, respected colleagues were warned of many health problems. True, there are many problems, and there are many good and positive solutions on the other hand. We are all faced, and we all know that we lack the resources, that waiting types are such that we lack money, but something needs to be said, and I will conclude with this. These problems have not occurred in the last year. These problems have a very long duration and are, of course, the result of decisions taken by colleagues in the last decade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeaking, if possible, to avoid controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u201	Very briefly, Mr. Sok. You went to law school because you don't want to face teachers, vets and anyone else who would choose the same right in a collective agreement. With regard to the 50s, you're extending this right to Article 18, so I asked the Minister why he said it wasn't time for this right to be lifted. I didn't get that answer. Mr Sok, I'm not inconsistent, I'm just saying, the collective agreement is harder than the law of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. As usual, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, if in doubt we decide a little earlier, at 5 p.m., so at 5 p.m. With this [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mag. Hiccup [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u203	So, if possible, the remaining time according to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u204	Unfortunately, the rules of procedure and the practice of amendments do not make this possible. I interrupt this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly and proceed at 5 p.m. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u205	Colleagues and colleagues, time is gold, time is 17 seconds and a few seconds, so we are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on the proposals for decisions. On the right hand side of the card inserted, the orange light should be lit. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on meteorological activities. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, and I welcome both ministers. We have an amendment to Article 28. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I give the floor to the Minister as a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Article 138, proposes to the National Assembly that the third consideration of this Act be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Minister Podobnik. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. By the way, a decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes against 5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] It means that the decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Wednesday 26 April 2006 after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on religious freedom and religious communities is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. Thank you very much. 69 Members and Members were present; 40 votes in favour, 28 in favour of the motion for a decision. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 28.]] This means that the decision is adopted, i.e. a negative decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the cooperative law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We have two articles, two amendments. The first Article is actually Article 1 and the decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Mr. Tanko, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I request a 15-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much for the suggestion. We continue the session at 5:20 p.m., if I may round it up, Mr Tanko, to make it easier. So, at 5:20 p.m., we resume the session. The session has been suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u210	Ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda and the adjourned session. I'm asking the head of the SDS delegation, Mr. Tank, if you'd like a word? Yes, your word, Mr. Tanko. Please listen, Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. In our parliamentary group, we will support the amendment that we tabled, because we are aware that this solution, which is written in the basic text of the article, does not solve anything. We will try to ensure that this article will also be settled in the third reading, complementing that it will allow all cooperatives equal access to the resources they can expect from the aid. I also propose to others that you support this amendment and thus allow the content of the article to be finalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban. I ask everyone to say that I will not tell you whether this is an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members or on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u213	No, it's a personal explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u214	Again?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u215	Voice explanation, me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u216	Good. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will not support this amendment for the next reason. On the committee that discussed this article, we have overwhelmingly supported the text that is embedded in the text of this law, and I think this is the most important part of the law. This part of the law speaks of cooperatives as well as other companies being able to prepare for calls for assistance from a country of this type. And I cannot agree that this text, which is supposed to be deleted, does not matter, this text is the most important in this law. The second part of this marriage may be important, but it seems less important to me. At the same time, I regret that the NSI colleagues withdrew the amendment that allowed the ministries or the government to say, by means of a sub-legislative document, how this aid is being shared. And the matter would be well arranged, and this text, which is incorporated into the law, would not prejudge anything. For this reason, I will oppose this amendment, and I hope that others will remain in the necessary number so that the law remains with one appropriate content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain my voice to Mr. President. Tell me, in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I will explain the vote on my behalf or on behalf of the majority in the Group of Members. So, I am going to support this amendment myself, because we have clearly agreed in these 15 minutes that because the article will be open, we will first propose that the item will continue or the third treatment will continue at the May session and that we will then be joint or that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food together with us will prepare such an amendment to Article 1 in order to ensure what the fourth indent of this amendment, which is also intended to achieve under this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u221	On behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mr President, I would like to say that, in our view, it is a solution that cooperatives in difficulty are entitled to aid in the same way as other companies have to be registered in this law. We have tried to finalize the basic text somehow by means of a sub-legislative act, but it was the Government's view that the basic criteria and conditions should be enshrined in the law itself, not in the sub-legislative act. We agree on this in some way, so I will do as my colleague Presečnik has said before me, today we will support this amendment tabled by the SDS. In doing so, this Article will remain open to third reading and until the third reading, as we have agreed, we will complete this text in such a way that the criteria and conditions to assist the cooperatives and in what way are enshrined in this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! We do not support this amendment in the parliamentary club, because it is better to have a sparrow in hand than a pigeon on the roof. With the same debate as today, we also met on the committee. There was no understanding for these, obviously intermediate comments, our initiatives and desires, but this is the case that cooperatives do not receive these aid in exceptional cases or in difficulties, as is the case with an economic society, which is discriminatory. In Slovenia, I must say, we have 509 cooperatives, of which 505 are in Slovenian ownership, and these cooperatives have over 3,400 employees and over 10,000 members and competitors. It would be difficult to say that we can give up taking care of such an important part of the Slovenian population. If you vote us over, obviously the coalition works, so a break was needed, then we will gladly confirm your correction in the third reading of the law. But today, for safety's sake, we're going to object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you very much. By the way, I'm asking you to debate more whispering, because that bothers those who speak. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members. We will not support the National Party of the Amendment or the joke in Slovenia. As I said in the introduction to the presentation, we are convinced that this law has two important innovations or introduces them. The first, perhaps less important than the one you are currently playing with in the government coalition, is that it allows the restructuring of individual cooperatives. And the second one eliminates the discrimination that has occurred so far, compared with companies. Of course, you now leave this discrimination open to them and remain as it has been. If we had some serious interest in regulating this in the third reading, then all your wisdom here in my opinion would have already gained enough knowledge to do so until the second reading, and today we would not be playing with such amendments, taking breaks and preventing our other coalition friends from following you. Last but not least, we are witnessing a very interesting case here today, because the views of the parliamentary groups are no longer valid, if you have listened to them well, everyone, except the Slovenian Democratic Party, has opposed such an amendment, as the force of pressure appears to be stronger than their own minds. I can point out that if this amendment is adopted, we will not support the cooperative law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. I speak on behalf of the Group of Members. Therefore, we will not support the proposed amendment, because the solution agreed and adopted on the Committee allows cooperatives to be entitled to state aid under the same conditions as companies that are legal entities. There was also a constant controversy as to whether other laws or, above all, the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty needed to be amended. And if we leave the text in this law that cooperatives are entitled to state aid, everything else must be provided for in the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies. In fact, in only one article, as presented, it will not be possible to present all those solutions and guidelines that are to be taken into account in which cooperative aid is to be granted and which is not. Therefore, it is certainly necessary for more than one article and it is certainly more appropriate for this to be created in this aid law for companies than I have said. We must be aware that these aids are subject to specific controls and control by the European Union, aid to the economy, and that there is a need to define a substantially broader text and to amend this appropriate law, otherwise we will not be able to apply these aids. And if this decision is so recklessly taken, we will not really do anything, but we will exclude the cooperatives from state aid. In addition, I would point out that, as already in force, the Act on aid to companies in difficulty does not even allow companies to actively engage and run for these funds, let alone cooperatives, who are supposed to have conditions that are as vague as they were presented. If we really want to do something more for the companies that are restructuring, for the companies that are having problems and for the cooperatives that want to participate in these calls, we need to amend the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies. That's the solution. This text in cooperatives only allows us to talk at least seriously about cooperatives in this other law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u228	Thank you very much. The word has a Master Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I made it very clear in the morning on behalf of the Group of Members and also later in the debate on my behalf that I will not support this amendment, but on the basis of a legal opinion, that this solution, which we would vote on, is such that it cannot be implemented. Thus, I will now vote in favour of this amendment by the largest parliamentary group in this national assembly, expecting us to complete the matter by the third reading, so that it will also be made so that it can be implemented. As long as this is not done until the third hearing, my vote will not be in favour of this law in the third reading. Finally, we still have the option of going back to this option that we are now on in the third reading. I hope that I have made it clear that I will now support this law of the largest parliamentary group, which also has the greatest responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The basic text of the law, as proposed, provides sufficient legal basis for these issues, which are open to the question of the title of the cooperative, to be dealt with by means of a sub-legislative act. I do not know on what legal basis, whether this is the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, a new foundation has emerged. I am afraid that this procedure, followed by this amendment, is the desire to force cooperatives to start transforming themselves into equity societies, which for a system of society with such a long tradition is a bad purpose. And I will maintain the basis for the decision-making of the Group of Members, and I will oppose the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u232	Thank you. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u233	Gentlemen, what is happening today is a pure abolition of the role of the government and the role of Parliament. The only one still valid in the Slovenian political space is the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest political party. I will vote against this amendment myself, because I think it is the clear political will of all to have, like the rest of the companies, the right to help. This, however, has been set out directly since 1 May 2004 by more than 3,000 sides of the European legislative and legal order in the field of state aid. And what you are doing today to read, among other things, after you have all attached to the opinion of the leader of the parliamentary group, because I have not heard others here, is the largest parliamentary party, which suddenly finds a new dictatorship in the fourth paragraph of Article 1, is of course to believe the pigeon on the roof instead of believing the 3,000 sides of the European Union's acquis. I'm going to oppose the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Master Saiovic, this time in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u235	That's right. Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that I haven't changed my mind since this morning, and I'm going to respect the old peasant saying, "What can you do today, don't delay tomorrow." I am very concerned about what I have heard in the debate of the largest government party, that they have a point of view to the first article primarily for financial reasons. This is said, for as important a matter as cooperatives - 509 cooperatives in Slovenia, one of the pillars of Slovenia, which is connected to more than 10,000 people - we simply do not have money for this system. But we obviously have enough money for tanks, helicopters, glass palaces, fitness, golf courses, but we don't have it for agriculture, rurals and horses, so to speak, I still object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will support this amendment, not because we would not want to give money in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but because we want to give it in a way that will be right, which will be fair to all the cooperatives that they are. We know that cooperatives are huge species, and in this way ad hoc to solve such things is not a joke, as some think. I think that this is the right amendment, in this place - in the third reading we will prepare the matter so that it will be good and acceptable for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 31. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 31.]] It means that the amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the Social Democrats Group. Mr. Weber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Member, I would like once again to draw attention to the amendment to Article 15, but it is closely related to what we discussed at Article 1 when we are discussing allowing cooperatives to run for funds granted for restructuring and assistance to companies in difficulty. The data to be transmitted by cooperatives to the Slovenian Public Administration Records Agency should be available within 8 months of the end of the financial year. Economic companies must do this within three months of the end of the marketing year and, more importantly, economic aid is actually subject to coordination with the European Commission. If we do not have all the data collected in time by both companies and cooperatives, then we will certainly not be able to apply these particulars to the European Commission. For companies, yes, but not for cooperatives, because this data will simply not be available in time for the public presentation of reports or for these data to be properly entered into the GDP calculation, which is one of the criteria for proving an exception in a region. This is the principle of the EU that this can only be achieved in areas and regions where there is a major social problem, where there is great unemployment, and this can only be defined on the basis of enough good and quality data. And if we do not accept this amendment, we will certainly exclude the cooperatives from this assistance in advance, because we will simply not have this data available in time. I expect this amendment to be adopted, especially because if you are already looking for solutions, you will not be able to write these solutions in Article 1 as foretold, but will have to amend another article. One of those which allows for at least some specific coordination is certainly also 15 if it remains open if this amendment is adopted in the second reading. If this is closed, there will certainly be difficulties in collecting data which are the basis for us to apply any aid at all either to cooperatives or to companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u240	Thank you very much. At the same time, I ask for a little more patience so that we can finish the meeting more quickly. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment was not accepted. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are voting on this decision. There are 73 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 5. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] The decision is adopted. We continue with agenda item 8. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will vote on the Business Register Act of Slovenia on Wednesday 26 April in the framework of the vote. Proceed with agenda item 9. The assembly will also vote in accordance with the Rule of Procedure on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code on Wednesday 26 April in the framework of the vote. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the short-term medical service law, which is to continue with the second reading, that is, the decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] This means that the amendment tabled under Article 5 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members or I am supplementing the second amendment of the LDS Group to the same Article 5 Article. I apologize, but a press error in the reminder is not an LDS amendment, but an amendment of the SNS to Article 5. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] The SNS amendment is not accepted. One more apology. We are moving on to decisions on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 8. Mr Barovich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u241	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Although I have, to be honest, tried to convince the honourable Minister that it would be good for our amendment to be accepted. I am still referring to the so-called lex specialis, which could be valid by the introduction and the option given in the business contract under the bonds relationship. I had already received this answer in this national assembly that one law was contrary to another, but the one that was later adopted was lex specialis, and it was valid. That too would be good, and not least of all, it is not about whose proposal it is. It is that this law gives the possibility to improve the quality of services, medical services, the trust of patients in doctors is sicker because they know them. Last but not least, time delays, which is the purpose of this law, would thus be reduced, and not least, completely domestically speaking, why would a doctor who is willing, who has the psychophysical skills that he is capable of, make it impossible to work in the same institution, where he is already working and importing from somewhere else, thereby increasing costs, and could come from somewhere else once, twice, but not always. In short, the amendment was in good faith to supplement this law in order to give people the opportunity to have quality and rapid medical services, to reduce backlogs and to enable normal work. If this is not the case, the consequences will be attributed to all those who make a different decision. Thank you very much. I propose that you support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party to Article 8.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We're voting. Thank you. There were 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 8. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 8 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 9. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 11. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now, indeed, the last amendment, namely the SD and SNS parliamentary groups, to Article 9. Mr Barovic would like to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u243	I'll do it again. I mean, this time we could say that a doctor who has reached the age of 55 doesn't have to take up duty. That people who may now look at us or read or see us will understand what this is all about. It's actually about being or not to be, for a game to be on one bank and say no, on the other, yes. The contents are completely simple. If we say, if it stays as defined in Article 9, it means that a doctor can say, thank you very much, I don't have to be on duty anymore after 50 years of age. And I'm going to say, in the concoctions, if he's "smart", from now on he's dealt with something else, where it's nice, given the needs we have, earned and put money in his pocket. Yes, you can. He has that right. He's acting like a market man. If we accept the proposal, as we and our colleagues in Social Democracy, we will allow people to come to a doctor who is under 55 years of age and is obliged to perform on-call duty until the age of 55, and then can perform on-call duty or not, however he wishes. This, once again, fills the gap of lack of doctors in all spheres. By doing so, we commit doctors to helping people for five years further, according to their psychophysical abilities. This is their duty and will result in more people waiting for less and having an adequate and quality health care. But if that's what you're opposed to, then I really don't know why we're adopting this law that's supposed to improve the quality and reduce the waiting period.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Clavora, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u245	I would like to explain my voice on my own behalf, and probably on behalf of my colleague Žnidaršič, there are only two of us. We talk a little too much about this. I've been hearing about this on-call job today things that I really didn't know how to explain to myself whether that's true. Speaking of 50, 55, I'll tell you that in the hospital where I worked, there was a burden on those over 55 years of age because there were no others. They were, but they were also on duty. That's not a problem at all. The problem is, for the first time, where it's done, as Mr. Secretary has already said, whether he was working in an E.R. or working in surgery, or working where after 10, 15, 20 years, there are severe psychological burdens, not physical, mental. So let's let whoever's on duty keep on duty, the one who decides when he's 50 years old, if he can't do it, we don't force him to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this State Parliament practically from duty station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I would like to add the following to what my fellow Member said that doctors die disproportionately earlier than other people in this country and that, according to some data, they enjoy an average pension of three years, and that women's doctors die even less than men, although women's life expectancy in this country is higher than men, which means that people spend early in this profession and I think it's fair and right to give them the opportunity to make an assessment that they have worked too many hours in this life of stressful work, which is very responsible and psychologically difficult not to be on duty. At the age of 50, when I could stop on duty, I had almost 50 years of working hours on duty, even though the pension will only be valid for those years that count on a regular basis. We paid all our contributions so that the doctor’s contribution during his work period was very large, enormous, incompatible with everyone else. That is why I think that we can keep this standard as it is, by being on duty until the 1960s and that most of the shifts from solidarity to our colleagues and also from solidarity to things themselves at a time when we do not have enough doctors and all the work needs to be done. Thank you. I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, by listening, I can draw up an argument which our two fellow Members have advocated by justifying the 50-year limit for a doctor's appointment. But I would point to one fact. We are not just talking about doctors with this law, we are talking about all healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals. This has happened with the provision of Article 18. Dear colleague, they justified one very narrow segment. But today we are no longer talking about these questions, today I have not received a clear answer to this dilemma, or given that it has not been coordinated to raise from 50 to 55 by doctors, I wonder whether it is the decision that we will have an appropriate organisation for all employed health workers and healthcare professionals to ensure this limit for the provision of 24-hour healthcare with a limit of 50 years. This marriage brings this, no one here today has denied it. My question is, with all due respect for all healthcare workers who certainly have very high and high burdens, whether the solution we introduce is possible so that we can maintain a 24-hour healthcare provision. I think a mistake has been made here, so I think it makes sense that we accept this amendment and until the third reading we can get the exact answers and change anything if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u251	In my name, there will be no misunderstanding. I believe, dear colleague, Mr Klavor, Mr Žnidaršič, I believe for Dr. Tsukjati, I believe for Dr. Podobnik that at 65, 70, 75, God give you 100, you come from duty, but that you are four, and in this country there are 100,000. I'm not talking about doctors and staff, I'm talking about patients, people who suffer from a lack of doctors. If there's a 50-year option, let's put it at 45, everyone will feel, I don't feel capable anymore, I don't need to be on duty, and I won't. And I'll have a private workshop there or not, I don't care. But they're gone! We save by this law, I say again, I have heard in explanation that by this law we reduce waiting times and increase quality. We can't work on liquid tape because we have a problem with specialists in this law. They're gone. And if they're not, we have to somehow provide for people, I say, once again, Slovenians and Slovenians who go to the doctor for a check-up, to have an on-call job. If 5,000 doctors are over 55 years old and we accept this amendment, there will be 5,000 more. If we don't accept this amendment, 5,000 will theoretically be fewer. It's not about trust, it's not about mistrust, it's not about, I know that everyone can be psychologically different, but with this law we bind people up to the age of 55 to provide the people of the Republic of Slovenia with on-call health care. Unless the goal is to end everything that's possible and privatize everything. That's another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u253	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u254	No, no. Mag. Clavor, the replicas, as you know, are not at this stage. And despite some of the complications with regard to academic titles, we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u255	May I please, on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u256	Usually a magician. As you yourself know, first on behalf of the Group of Members, then on behalf of yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u257	You're right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u258	Since you spoke for yourself, I'm afraid I shouldn't violate the rules of procedure. But he has the word, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Chairman. When this article was discussed, I did not follow carefully, and I was sure that the age limit was falling, until when it could be on duty from 60 to 50. And it didn't happen to me that my colleagues had to propose a solution to the 50-to-55 lifting of this limit. The reasons for not supporting this amendment are incomprehensible to me, as my colleagues have said several times here. We don't have doctors, so we know that we've set up an extra medical school, that doctors assume that they're long species that don't shrink, and they're still. And it all shows that the amendment will not be supported, not for some rational or irrational reasons, but, as has happened before, that the coalition must not vote for a solution proposed by someone other than theirs. My doctor's colleague didn't convince me either. Just like Dr. Klavor's case, I think you're the oldest of us, and you've come from duty to this National Assembly. It means that you've been doing your job for a very long time, probably doing your job properly, and you've done it. But for years that, if I know, are above 55. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 71 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 38. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 38.]] This means that the amendment has not been voted on. At the same time, I apologize to Dr. Slavinz for not seeing him. Let this be a warning for the next time. That's brave. We don't bite. We have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading, [[Please, if I may finish]] , and by second reading of the draft law in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 8 and 9 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article. This can be done by Wednesday, May 3rd. I guess not. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent, so we can move on to a decision on the law. We're voting. Master Squeakle, I ask you to raise your hand in time. We don't call anymore, it's a right anyone can take advantage of. There are 65 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] This means that the law was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt today's meeting, which we continue tomorrow at 10 a.m.
