ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Matjaž Han, Ivan Yelen, Franz Kangler, Dr Marko Pavliha, Janko Weber and Flower Zalokar Orazem. We're moving on to 25. Period of the day - Third defense of the proposal for a law on non-responseness of public function with gainful action. For the third reading, the draft law was drafted by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Good day to you all! But we came to the end of the debate about this law that was drilling left, right, upper, lower, most of all those who were employed there, because they would lose a nice salary - for nothing work or for bad work they were getting what they were getting. The fact is that it is not true that Slovenia will not have a commission to investigate corruption. She's gonna have it, and it's better than before. It is not true that the commission to be composed now will not be independent. She'll be independent, much more independent than before. After all, in the National Assembly we are gathered representatives of all political options, and in the previous commission led by Mr Kos, individuals who were confirmed by the then ruling coalition were elected. And certainly they were not all gathered from different options or from each policy option one by one. The fact is, if the Commission so far wanted to tackle corruption, then it should be dealt with in a different way. Take, for example, the way corruption took place in Romania. Don't let anyone think I'm talking about reading an article in "The Economist" of February 4, this year - this year! In Romania, in the fight against corruption, 1,200 judges and prosecutors were immediately fired or thrown on the road! It's the right way to destroy corruption. For we also know corruption in the Slovenian judiciary so much that you have no idea. Here I have brought a single case, this is a single case of corruption, which speaks of what happened in one case - it is a Maribor region - and we will discuss this matter more specifically in any way on the committee, where we will also address the work of prosecutors. This is about huge millions and millions or tens of millions of Slovenian tolars - and what happened? Nothing happened! There's a whole bunch of prosecutors, judges and the like involved. Mr Kos, who received a letter from the injured to do something, also received Mr Stroligo and probably did not respond after three months, after again asking why he did not answer, he declared himself not competent to solve the matter. Why was Mr. Kos competent? That's because he introduced people with disabilities. Apparently, that's why he was the only one competent. It's sad. And such committees, which are competent to exert political pressure on those who were not then in power, do not need such committees. How the former commission is needed and what people think about it all together, has shown an attempt at SMS, which is said to be ex-exposures of one of the former ruling political parties who wanted to carry out a referendum in every way, where people were supposed to declare themselves on the matter without collecting signatures. Nor did it help to see the former President of the Republic, Mr Milan Kučan, appearing in the media space, who also supported the demand that Kos and his people remain, not to replace them. And that didn't help them get enough signatures. The former Member of the United List of Social Democrats, Mrs Jerca Mrzelj, also tried to convince the Slovenian public. That didn't work either. In short, Slovenian voters and voters are not fools. And the fact that they are not fools will also show today's vote when we vote on this bill. It's about time, and I think we need to do this as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. At the same time, I welcome the present Minister of Public Administration, Mr Gregor Virant and Secretary of State Marolt. Mr. Virant, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government supports the law, as it represents a step forward in ensuring the credibility of public institutions and public function holders and in strengthening trust in them. For the law brings a considerable amount of added value, which so far has been little talk, because much time has been lost in the debates on the commissions. The law introduces the public data on all the income and assets of the officials and the duty of the official to make any increase in assets disproportionate to its functional salary particularly clear and prove the source of the increase in this asset. This is a courageous and important step towards the openness and transparency of the public sector. At the same time, the obligation to register property for municipal councillors is lifted. With regard to this obligation, there is a high degree of consensus that there is a senseless bureaucracy and burden that does not bring any benefit. The proposed amendment of coalition groups will also bring the law into line with the Constitutional Court's decision, introducing an absolute ban on the operation of undertakings in which the official is involved with a person of public law in which the official performs his duties. The current regime is in this area because it allows exceptions. It is permissible, for example, to operate through low-value orders, even without public invitations, which is very impractical, and also not out of the possibility of doing business, for example, concessions, but only classic public contracts. The law retains all restrictions on the acceptance of gifts and the obligation to record protocol and opportunities for gifts of lesser value. Of course, these records will be made publicly available, representing information of a public nature. The law also imposes stricter sanctions in the event of infringements of duty, such as infringements of the obligation to register property, provides for the termination of a function even in cases where the sectoral legislation of this sanction does not know and criminal sanctions for the persons responsible are more severe. This is said to strengthen individual responsibility in the event of a violation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	The law regulates restrictions on public sector officials in respect of the performance of the acquisition activity, the acceptance of gifts in respect of the performance of the function, the operation of companies and other entities in the public sector and the obligation to report the data, i.e. the public information on the property status of the officials. The law provides that contracting entities operating under public procurement rules may not operate with entities in which a professional official or his family member is a member of the management, a holder of a business share of shares or other rights, on the basis of which the participation in management or capital is 10% through public contracts, except low-value contracts, where the assessment of the value of a single or monthly contract is less than the 12th value set out in the law on the implementation of the national budget. A similar provision shall apply to all the entities mentioned above involved in the management or capital of more than 10%. Of course, 10% is a relative criterion according to the size of the absolute amount of business that can nevertheless be carried out. Therefore, this criterion is a relatively poor criterion. The fines for offences in the event of major transactions are also negligible, as is the penalty for pay if the official intended to abuse the position of external entities. It is true that, in accordance with the proposal, the official must not carry out any gainful activity for private purposes if the activity could have an objective or external impact on the independent performance of the function, if the performance of the activity would have created the impression that the official in the performance of his or her function is not impartial or would have damaged the reputation of the function or body. To some in the New Slovenia Group, it seems excessive to us that an official must attach to the commission a report on the property not acquired at the time of the performance of his duties. This information should be detected by other state authorities which control the financial and other flows associated with possible corruption following the official duty. We therefore believe that the proposal for a law does not have the power to be able to effectively prevent corruption associated with the management of a public function. However, depending on the professionalism and the work of the Commission, it may contribute in part to this. It will be of paramount importance for the meaningful implementation of this law by the composition of the Commission, impartially depending on the political affiliation of the official it will oversee. Time will show to what extent the implementation of the proposed law will primarily help to improve the quality, transparency and people of the work of public officials closer to them than temporary administrators of the exercise of democratic rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we will vote by our own discretion in the light of the solutions that the proposal for a law brings.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Corruption is certainly a word most likely mentioned in the National Assembly immediately behind it, but it is a wild property. However, we have done nothing to eliminate and eradicate these factors. In short, we have made it cheap to sell so-called social property and throw 100,000 people on the road who have a constitutional right to work. We took their right to work and, of course, sold or closed the factories immediately after the sale. The last case recorded in the centre of Ljubljana is Tobacco. It is interesting that in order to eradicate corruption in the history of independent Slovenia we devote more and more resources and corruption is rich and remains in society. Today we have a commission that has no powers whatsoever, cannot participate in criminal proceedings, cannot file criminal charges, can only collect information and anonymous letters that it forwards, unfortunately, anonymous letters forward to the prosecution. In order only to discuss corruption, we devote 1,000 million Slovenian tolars a year, or one billion. The serious intention of corruption being eradicated in society was that the previous governments did not have at all. Today's policy statements are interesting compared to those of 10 years ago. The work of the commission today is comparable to a determined court party in which thieves and thugs are immeasurably entertained, and they are entertained by Kosovo officials, and therefore by a dance without masks, let me tell you some facts. Under the terms of the Kosovo Commission, today its president has been sued several times. It's been observed that he's getting used to people with disabilities, which is absurd. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe or believe that it is the duty of the Slovenian State to monitor the transparency of the use of public finances and that we have done nothing in this area. Last but not least, if we look at 82 cases of damage to social property through Soda and Kad, there is not a single criminal complaint by the Kosovo Commission. We had to set up a new commission - in which the factors of the so-called only constructive opposition did not want to cooperate - so that we could review the transparency of social property. And what is interesting is that in the Slovenian National Party we have pointed out corruption and clientism and we have even called for an extraordinary meeting on this issue on 31.5.2004. And what happened? Against this meeting were representatives of the LDS and the current United List of Social Democrats. Even more, the then Minister of State, Mr Rop, argued that the establishment of such a commission is not necessary at all because there are no such phenomena in our society. As has already been said, we firmly believe that this Commission is itself the intention, that it is a great budgetary consumer, that it does not actually have proper legal powers and that it was created only to show the public's pressure years ago that the then authorities were willing to do something and talk about corruption. If this Commission were set up to eradicate corruption in Slovenia, then it would have clear legal powers and could also participate in pre-trial and criminal proceedings, file criminal charges, in short, there should also be prosecutors, and finally have far more legal powers than it has today. We are clear that the government has written this bill, but after a quick review we can find that this law is amended almost every article. So the amendments came from both the left and the right, and today, in the third reading, we have again a new package of amendments. Most interesting, however, is the amendment that says that this Commission should act until the end of its term of office and have the same powers. Nonsense! If we are serious about eliminating clientism and corruption, then we must make a commission that, for the first time, will have clear powers - therefore, our proposal is good, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, because both the left and the right will sit on the National Assembly and will be able to make a very constructive, critical and rigorous assessment of any corruption attempt. Finally, it is funny that today the anti-corruption commission has one purpose: to collect forms for public officials and deliver them annually for assessment. However, it has omitted essential factors in society that can have a truly corrupt impact - these are the directors of all public institutions in Slovenia. After all, it's that part of the company that's turning large sums of money. And of course, if we look at the latest assessments, it is even more funny that, in fact, when we find that in the case of the initiators from the media, they have done their best to collect the required number of votes for the referendum, which would cost the citizens and citizens 700 million Slovenian tolars, we find in the statement by the President of the Youth Party that they have failed to collect signatures precisely because the United List or the Social Democrats and the LDS did not participate constructively. That's an interesting statement in Finance. Read it for yourself. Mr. Robb is laughing. Of course, but that's the truth. I also have this article in front of me, and I can show it to you. In short, this is it. Finance, 7.1.2006. I would like to point out that, in fact, today is the time to conclude this law and get a new law that will be amended, essentially, because the amendments are huge. Today, there will be a debate on new ones, and in this way we will allow real insight into the past period, when we have sold out social property, when we have allowed some to become extremely rich, when we have actually damaged citizens and citizens, toss them on the road. Today we have, as has already been said, 100,000 unemployed, many disabled, single mothers, not to say how many first-time job seekers are among these and how many others are affected who would like to work in these companies, which have had a lot of added value and were successful, and we have closed them down. It's corruption. And I'm sure in the next period, it's going to actually open up books with these black records and there's going to be new and new knowledge coming on the day that won't be pleasant to the former government, and I believe that this is the last firewall that some would like to keep. So I hope that we will gather so much wisdom and courage to support this law, as has already been said, with all the amendments that I hope will be adopted to this end, to really eliminate the great budgetary consumer and to enable us to explore the events that have led to what is now in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we note that the law, which was initially poor, after what it promised, was significantly improved in the second reading and showed that it would become so that it could be supported. In particular, I am sure that we have been convinced that there has been a lot of talk over the past few years about corruption, which this law should have helped to prevent and therefore we have lived in great anticipation. But after we found ourselves in the new power, nothing happened, I thought we would shut down a few of the scrupulous soon after we started working in this coalition, but nothing had happened yet, while, of course, we kept saying that the anti-corruption commission did not have the necessary powers. The problem is that this commission, which is also provided for by this law, does not have the power to shut down anyone and confiscate his property and to put it in any way for the sake of corruption. And I must therefore say that it is the decision of our parliamentary group to support this law only if we experience this last improvement, which is foreseen by the amendments and, of course, there will be no more problems, and we will be happy to support the law that will, of course, experience the last drop that is absolutely necessary in order to be acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposed Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a profitable activity. In our view, this law deals more comprehensively and in a more appropriate way with and resolves the area of identification and action in the event of the incompatibilities found in the performance of the function with a gainful activity. Contrary to the current anti-corruption law, the proposed law also contains measures to prevent corruption, i.e. the causes and elimination of these causes, which, in our view, is certainly a step forward with regard to the current regime. We also believe that the inefficiency of anti-corruption work so far cannot be effectively countered by the anti-corruption commission, as the current law prescribes. Last but not least, this Commission is a body that cannot do anything very effective in suppressing corruption without adequate powers. It is essential to create conditions to effectively prosecute the law enforcement authorities, i.e. the police and the prosecution, in accordance with their legal powers. They certainly have these legal responsibilities for such persecutions. They are also obliged to pursue all forms of corruption because it imposes on them existing legislation and, of course, what people expect of them. And that is and must also be one of the priorities of our country. We also believe that it is not really necessary to have as many as two commissions as is regulated now that we have a commission on the one hand to prevent corruption and, on the other hand, a commission of the National Assembly. It is an unnecessary duplication of work and competence, so it is more appropriate, in our view, that we have only one commission, the committee whose composition is determined by the National Assembly. In doing so, it is important that the bill provides for a multi-party composition of the Commission, while ensuring the predominant role of the opposition, which has a majority in the Commission and also a president. This will make the work of the Commission more transparent than it has been so far, as the representatives of the parliamentary parties will have a direct view of the data that the Commission will obtain in its work and will also directly participate in the work of the Commission itself. After the current regulation, the Commission of the National Assembly also had control over the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission, but this supervisory function was only indirect and dependent on whether, and how, such indirect control would be allowed and, of course, also effective, given that, in doing so, the Anti-Corruption Commission itself has the power to prevent corruption, which is not represented in such a way as to ensure that individual parties have the possibility of directly appointing their qualified representatives. Therefore, in our view, the proposed law, as I have already mentioned, represents a step forward in ensuring a successful and more successful area in the field of the functioning of public officials whose public work must be supervised. The provisions of the law that we are considering today not only allow us to identify the possible incompatibility of public function and gainful activities, but also allow for appropriate action in the face of identified irregularities. In view of the many discussions on the need for a political and ad hoc activities of the Commission to identify and prevent corruption, allow me to speak a few words about this. The existing facts do not speak of an independent and apolitical body on the existing anti-corruption committee, as some like to point out. How should this body be independent and non-political if, years ago, it was called only by a ruling coalition in a strong opposition to the opposition? How can opponents of this law refer to the United Nations Convention when they speak of an independent commission, and when this commission exists, far from being independent? We all welcome the fact that we have an independent commission, but forgive this, this commission does not guarantee this, for the reasons it has been named, certainly cannot be independent. So, already because of the principle and the way in which the composition is appointed, it is least challenged by the question of political independence and as long as the composition of the body depends on the ruling coalition - and the ruling coalition in the previous term was the one that put the commission - so long as there is no doubt about the Commission's policy. That's why I'm saying the truth is the other way around. The current anti-corruption commission is already by definition political and is therefore subject to greater political pressures and other forms of illicit influences, which will make it difficult to guarantee declared independence. While, on the other hand, we have a parliamentary commission under the proposed law, which is equally political, it can be no different because it is appointed by the highest state authority, but it is politically balanced, with the opposition even having a majority and a president, as I have already mentioned, which gives it significantly more objectivity than we can attribute to the current anti-corruption commission. For this commission, when it enters into force, is likely to be set up unanimously. There will probably not be any opposition to the appointment of this commission, because there will be no reason, because the opposition will definitely participate actively and will also be able to propose a majority. I mentioned earlier that the fight against corruption is important, but it is important to create the conditions for those authorities that are competent under our legislation, the police, the prosecution, as well as the judiciary, where it is necessary to make every effort to ensure, as much as possible, a sufficient number of highly qualified personnel who, in appropriate organisational form, will be able to do more effectively than corruption so far. This, in our view, is a key task in the future and we must make every effort to carry out this task, including the provision of sufficient budgetary resources. In order to achieve this objective, we do not need such a commission as we have, which is called the Anti-Corruption Commission, because it is not in its content, but whether this committee is led by Kos or by anyone else. In this case, when the functions are found to be incompatible, we need a committee of the national assembly to identify and act in the event of infringements to determine the proposed law. And these provisions regulate the limitation of officials on the exercise of a gainful activity, on the acceptance of gifts in relation to their function, and at the same time oblige officials to report all relevant information to the Commission of the National Assembly. And in cases of detected infringements, action is envisaged, which is prescribed in this law substantially more specifically than it has been so far, and therefore the effectiveness of work, unlike the current regime, can in fact be achieved. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the new proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler, on behalf of the LDS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Today is an important day for democracy in Slovenia. It will be shown whether the parties to the government coalition have taken seriously when they have convinced voters that when they come to power, they will do everything they can to stop and prevent the spread of corruption. Corruption is supposed to break up beyond all limits. More likely today, however, it will be that the power blinded by its own power and deaf to arguments, both those based on postulated democratic constitutional arrangements at home and those coming from international institutions, is prepared to question all these arguments arrogantly and to enforce the law under consideration. She objected to the profession, domestic and international. The proposed Act of Jelinčič, I'm sorry, this is indeed a government proposal, and despite all the power and not the persuasiveness of the arguments, it will undoubtedly be arrogantly voted. The party of young Slovenia tried to collect enough signatures to carry out the previous legislative referendum, and unfortunately it failed. Public opinion polls have shown that, as long as the draft law was in the legislative procedure, public opinion opposes the abolition of the State anti-corruption commission. They did not fail to point out that it is unacceptable and politically unhygienic, that politics controls itself with regard to corruption, that it does not make sense to reinstate the system, that is, the Commission in the National Assembly, as we have already had and we have removed it precisely because it was not and could not be effective. It is a body which is politically acting on political principles and preferences, which cannot be impartial, even though it is led by an opposition member. Otherwise, from which the opposition is already, and which cannot be sufficiently professional, even though we attract additional professional colleagues to its work, preferably politically compatible. It does not matter to note that the law does not comply with the conventions and other acts of the Council of Europe which Slovenia has already adopted. It does not depend on the notice that the law does not comply with the United Nations Convention which Slovenia intends to ratify in a short time. There is no need for a warning about standards that apply to the OECD, where Slovenia is still trying to enter. No, no, no. Government logs explain that the United Nations Convention, which explicitly requires the establishment of a special, autonomous, professional, impartial and, in particular, independent body policy, does not, in fact, require that the United Nations Convention, which explicitly requires the establishment of a special, independent, impartial, and, in fact, that some legislative locksmiths can be achieved and argued that it is still a matter of respect for this Convention, even though one of the members of this body should be embroiled in the National Assembly, the other, professionally, in the Ministry of Justice, the third should visibly ensure respect for the principle of the division of power, namely in that part which is involved in the supervision and detection of possible corruption in the judiciary. In short, in principle, nothing can stop us. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The ruling set decided to abolish the current anti-corruption commission, the current political authority has decided not to be supervised by anyone else but itself, so that it will not leave things to chance, but will itself hold fast to exercise in its own hands. [[..]] Now they're strong, now they're in power, now they can afford it, now they can't miss it. Otherwise, because the government coalition only supports Jelinčič's law, because it did not make it up itself, it is only delicate, it has a hearing for good and constructive proposals by the opposition, there is no saying that there is no need for political corruption. The new Anti-Corruption Commission of the National Assembly, the president will be negligent from the opposition, will certainly immediately put a sharp stake in, for example, indemnities that the collection of signatures for the referendum on the reshaping of the Mutual was not free of charge. Today is an important day for democracy in Slovenia, very important if the law is not confirmed and even more important if the law is confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I have to do something to deny one fact and one lie at the beginning that we are also right for this speaker. In fact, I've heard a number of times that this commission spends 1,000 million a year or we translate 1 billion. This is a pure lie and has been repeatedly demented and continues to repeat itself, and today it has been respoken for this speaker. And second is the fact that five months have passed since the work of this Commission and there has already been a proposal in this National Assembly to abolish the Commission. This is a precedent in Slovenian politics, in the functioning of Slovenian politics, which happened in this case, as it happened. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the proposal for a law with all too many amendments, which the government has made in particular, which is a major step forward in the fight against corruption in Slovenia in the past more than a year's work in this National Assembly. This is one major mistake by the government and the government coalition, which abolishes the commission as a stand-alone state authority, which controls the assets of all officials, of all three branches of government. Again, the idea is that political elites are trying to re-establish the system when they control themselves, so in the Socialist Group of Members, it seems paradoxical to us when those political actors are trying to re-establish the current majority in the government and the government coalition, which are a large part of their rhetoric and political energy during the period when they were in opposition, have used the daily repetitive values of the style 'all are dirty, corrupt and corrupt, only we are not such, to end the independent control that they have taken in the past. Even more so, the Prime Minister himself, with WD 40 in these areas, tried to develop the heavy and rusty screws of corruption and corruption out there in Dolenjska. And in this way they have gained the great trust of people, the confidence of all those people, that they are the ones who will once and for all put an end to these atrocities, which are called theft, corruption, clientism and so forth. But it is these actors that are now shutting down, dismantling already exposed institutions that could be successful in doing so. Once again, they haven't even started to work. It only worked, whether it worked for five months. Of course, the question is in itself why. Also because clienteleism as a means of concentration of political and power is the most effective means of preserving this same power. And this phenomenon is far from immune to the current political majority in this country. On the contrary. Whole families with family extension control areas, both in the economy and in other areas that represent influence, money and status. In particular, economic and political unity in Slovenia has increased considerably over the past year. The new elites have joined. It's just that the human resources mills are spinning fast. Today you have also had the opportunity to see in the media how quickly the staff mills are spinning in the largest state-owned company in the new administration. Therefore, according to the Slovenian public, corruption is still a worrying and frequent phenomenon in Slovenia. Let's look at the last two cases, Assets and Mutual. That's it. And, of course, in such a context, an independent commission of this political and economic elite can only be an obstacle. Therefore, it is, of course, difficult to accept arguments and estimates that it is not a curtain dismantling of independent supervisory institutions. The arguments with financial savings are more than fog, it's a true polar night. Indeed, we have already had an office that has done a lot of work in the past, but it has always been the public and even in the present opposition, the current position, the issue of independence, because its work was directed by the government as a political body, there were arguments at the time. And that is why the current commission, as an independent, professional and independent state body, has been set up. Now we are going back to the starting point when these things are to be strategically planned and implemented by the government. The Parliamentary Commission would only be a forum for the legalisation of such work. In the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, no parliamentary commission can and cannot carry out such scope and content of work. At the same time, every parliamentary commission, which is 100% politically constituted, cannot in any way get rid of the party and political pressures, the conclusion of cows' trades - and this cow's trade is also a proposal of this law that we have before us today. On the other hand, only repressive corruption measures cannot be effectively suppressed. Therefore, in the Socialist Group of Members, we attach to the assessment that the most critical points currently in reducing corruption are certainly the poor quality of detection and prosecution of corruption and the prevailing absence of ethical standards in the public sector. And one of these most important ethical standards, which is abolished by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the help of the majority in this National Assembly, is the independence of such an anti-corruption commission. That is why, of course, we will not support this law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have strong reservations about this law, on the basis of some experience in the functioning or running of a commission and how this law has been mediated into the National Assembly, what has been happening to it and what is still going on around it. As the proponent of the Slovenian National Party, allow me to begin with a saying from our tradition, people say "a glib sum of garters". And it is no coincidence that the Talon opposition party found herself here as the one who paved the way for a law that is nothing more than a coalition desire to control a position that, before the 2004 elections, was divided, claimed to go with all means to fight corruption. Well, when we look at how it behaves in this fight, it is hard to believe that it has serious intentions if it is proposed in Article 3 of the law, which introduces a commission to watch over the implementation of the provisions of this law, which, in order not to be replaced by another body or body, we call it the State Assembly Commission. Well, it's supposed to work according to a principle that we also know by saying "the crows don't turn off their eyes". What's this all about? It is true that the Commission is supposed to be seven-member, that it should be led or led by an opposition Member or Member of Parliament. But I am also leading as an opposition member of the petition committee and for human rights and equal opportunities, and I cannot bring through the committee the most innocent decisions that would improve texts or at least raise doubts about the relevance of a legal text from the point of view of human rights protection. Of course, I am talking about the Asylum Act, I am talking about the fact that the coalition Members have readily accepted the conclusion that the law is very good, even if no amendment after them should be adopted to improve this bill. Therefore, I do not think that the national assembly commission, which is supposed to enforce the law, can replace an independent body that should take care of all the things that the law imposes on it, as well as the anti-corruption plan. If anyone has doubts that the Commission does not have sufficient powers, then the law should be amended in this direction and given more powers to the Commission. What this coalition thinks about independent supervisory authorities, but it is best to show a recent decision on the salaries of officials and that the state thinks or, excuse me, not the state, but the government coalition thinks that they are the people who do not deserve their salaries and therefore have to be paid down, to themselves and to the executive authorities to add something. Well, I can't vote for such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Mr Miro Friday, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it's important to say clearly and loudly that nothing is over; only one commission is replacing itself with another. That's how life is, the systems are changing, the countries are changing, and in time we're going to change the currency again. Life just goes on. The tendency is that it goes better, and I think that this law also means a change for the better, at least it tends to do so. Corruption is just like, you know, doctors say, cancer. Cancer can be cured at first, but it is difficult to recognize. But if you don't recognize the disease from the crime scene, it's hard to cure cancer, and that's the way it is with the phenomenon of corruption. If we quickly detect corruption, it can be remedied and cured in some way. However, if we do not recognize corruption or do not want to recognize what has been happening in the past, it will be very disruptive and difficult to heal because it is no longer the right aid. We talked about the prosecution law days ago, which also explicitly prosecutes corruption against a group of prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime. Prevention is needed to combat corruption, but there is also a need for curative action. Effective law enforcement bodies must be established, effective judiciary, which has not been so far. Corruption is closely linked to organised crime, as well as money laundering, and these are areas where so far there have been very few legal judgments in Slovenia. A little bit or almost nothing. However, once a legal conviction in the field of transit crime has occurred in this country, the President of the State of the Condemned Judge of Mercy has been convicted. This act of pardon could also be viewed in the final stage in the light of the corruption we are talking about today. In view of whether this pardon may also be a payment for past work, or whether it is a related trade, which is referred to in the criminal code as a corrupt act. We also have a lot to bet on civil society in the future, which is very weak in the fight against corruption, but there is also some change to be seen here if you look at the website, the record of corruption, you will find very interesting examples of Slovenian corruption practices, although the authors of these pages are not known, they probably know why. But there is also a good possibility that this year a Slovenian part of the organization transpers international will be established. In Berlin, they granted a mandate to a respected Slovenian economist and I think that this year this office will also start operating in Slovenia, which will certainly have a great deal of importance in the area of civil society action in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on non-compatibilities in the administration of a public function with a profitable activity has, in recent times, encountered a number of oppositions mainly in the opposition, and I must say that, last February, I raised a question to the minister concerning municipal councillors. If you remember, this official, a municipal councilman, was a member of the category of official, of course, such as the Prime Minister, the State, the Member of Parliament, etc., and that we have experienced in this year, which has followed us many percentages of excellent councillors, who were also entrepreneurs, the irreconcilability of a function which seemed to me to be a deep belief as a mayor and where we lost excellent saints after this, I would say, the ingenuity of this law, from this point of view, I think this correction of the bill that we are going to make with the amendment, I believe that the coalition [[?]] also supported that, however, the municipal councillor in the municipality where he works cannot run, but outside this municipality he can, which I think is perfectly clear, logical and reasonable, that the municipal councilor in the municipality of Sevnica cannot run for the municipality, and for the municipality of Maribor "comot" can run in small and public procurement. I find it completely pointless, especially because of the fact that a non-professional official and certainly an audience is this, it has no influence on decision-making in Maribor, Ljubljana or elsewhere. So I believe that from this point of view I think that the future local elections and, of course, for good people, the municipal councillor in Slovenia, this correction of the law from this point of view is positive, of course, in the fact that this amendment to Article 17 will also be corrected and also supported by the coalition and we will all get an open path for good people in the local elections in autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. To you, and to all of us who may even be following today's debate, let me say that we are talking about a law on the incompatibilities of public office management with a gainful activity, which has 24 members who are defined by the officials, who are, what they can't and what I'm surprised that none of the 90 colleagues are talking about Articles 1, 17, 23 or 24, because they all hanged themselves on Article 3, which is an integral part of the 24th of this law. First time. And it's not fair to popularize and raise yourself on this account. Why does no one say that this law clearly defines what officials should not receive, that they should not receive gifts, that they should not combine activities that are not comparable to their activities, that they should not involve their relatives and other people in business and so on and so forth? Why doesn't anyone talk about it? Everyone gets in or out of one article, that is, Article 3, which speaks of the anti-corruption commission. So will I. The saddest thing is, you know, my colleagues and I think we're one group that we've been living together for hours after our last experiences. I think that we are people who have the right to express different opinions, rights and duties, but I am most saddened when I hear the expression and the accusation that, given the proposal that there be a single commission to control corruption, the state-level commission, how you all talk about it. The commission can control itself. You know what, I didn't expect this to happen. We all have ourselves as thieves. Are we therefore setting up an anti-corruption commission solely and solely for the purpose of overseeing the work of 90 Members? I put my hand in the fire for you fellows and colleagues, all in order to do your work honestly, to be honest in your work and your life. And I won't let any of you say indirectly that this commission is for or cannot be for the sake of not being able to control itself. I've made a lot of mistakes in my life because I do a lot of work. Two things I don't do, I don't lie, I don't steal. And I don't steal, I don't have a house, I don't have a boat, I don't have a car, I don't have a weekend, I don't have any land. And I don't cry, I live honestly, and I'm glad I don't. And I don't let anyone say to me and my colleagues that the commission can't control itself. We make our own thieves in front of the public, shame it's not like that. A representative of one of the parliamentary groups said in the opinion of the parliamentary group that one commission alone cannot and cannot perform this work. Dear colleagues, I ask you, how could one state-level commission itself have been able to do so between 1992 and 2003. As one Commission of State is the 10th year of another government, I will not name whose, I can do it, and suddenly one cannot do it alone. What about the next question I am asking is, has there suddenly been a large group of people in the National Assembly since 2004, who need a special independent external commission to control their work and their dishonesty? I don't agree to that claim. Not for anyone among 90 people here, at least during this time and mandate. You're talking about who and how this committee is going to be made up. Above all, most of this committee is opposition. However, the President may, as far as I am concerned - even though my distinguished colleague is this moment the president of a commission, for which I do not know what powers at this time, given the situation that she is, at all, still has - anyone. Not to tell, not to go so low that you even read to my esteemed colleague, if you do, because she wants to be, she has to be. That won't be necessary. Any one of the opposition parties could be the president. But why wouldn't she be? Is there any doubt or doubt? Why is that? Is it evidenceable? I'm surprised -- I've personally experienced it, not me, but I've seen it, so I stand behind it, I'm telling the truth -- that the independent anti-corruption commission responds to an anonymous application that I can write right now and invent against anyone, and I won't afford it. But not to check it out! Without checking it without looking at it without putting it in the drawer and thinking about it. A direct anonymous complaint has been transmitted to the Ministry of the Interior, to the Department of Economic Crime - without scrutiny, anonymously! An anonymous one anyone can write! Unbalanced man, drunk man, angry man, evil man, whoever. Is this the work of an independent anti-corruption commission? On the other hand, the same commission has names and surnames that prove corruption does not. Is this an honest job? I can prove it to you all, to the public, to cases. Let every suspicion of a criminal act be investigated, everyone. I'll be the first to stand up to him, and I can't because I didn't do anything. And we'll be the first, I'm in - not the way. Besides, I'll give my colleagues a few more minutes. Let each one express his or her opinion and what he or she thinks. And once again, please, let's not insult ourselves, let's not think of ourselves as thieves. And think about 14 days or three weeks ago, or five years ago, what it was like. And don't talk, I ask you kindly that she can't and can't do something that's before, for the wonders of God, twelve years she's been able to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Well, everyone could probably swear that there's something good about this marriage and no one's ever objected to it before. But it would probably be an endless repetition of the fact that it is possible to find something good, meaningless. It is wiser to focus on what we may not all accept in the same way, and some are not willing to just keep quiet and silence what we do not like. In the DeSUS Group so far, and even in the future, we did not bring fire to this law, although we knew that there would be strong controversy and that there would also be different responses in the public. We have tried to do as we did in the coalition contract to open up, above all, the topics that people are supposed to bring together, which are supposed to solve some problems, not by trying to separate people from each other first. Well, especially a lot of this in this bill cannot be found, namely, what would unite. It also shows that Members and Members have a very different attitude towards the same terms and that we do not understand the terms as if any logical analysis showed what they carry in their content, but rather what kind of political colour they have. The fact that we are not too excited about drawing on the proposed law is at least two. We know that corruption practices in Slovenia are considerable, not only that there are opportunities, but it is, and we know, that something has to be done in this regard, so that we will give those involved in preventive action, analysis, monitoring, creating initiatives more power than they have had so far, and that at the same time we will strengthen the responsibility of those who are called law enforcement authorities. However, we have never been in favour of one part of this field, leaving this duality simply to forget the prevention that is still necessary for the formation of a culture in which social reality will happen so that there will be as few reasons as possible for the law enforcement authorities to have much work to do. We are also following in this the UN resolution, which reminds us of this, even if we have not signed it. So one part of our challenge goes in a direction that refuses to let go of independence. In the amendment that we have today under consideration, even, I believe that this is some benevolent candidate of the amendment, this independence has somehow been abandoned and replaced by the notion of autonomy, so that it might not be in the eyes of this concept. So we reject abandonment of independence and we are glad that there is also a large majority of such opinions in the public. We also cannot agree with the way this treatment has been handled today. In view of the way in which the reserve bench was called, that it prepared something that then the coalition tried to repair, on each article, so to speak, was an amendment, not to refer to which side, coalition or opposition. We belong to the DeSUS Group of Members that we cannot agree that when we do not support the government proposal, others will jump in instead of us. So that's what we're rejecting. And when we reject it, we do not simply reject the law by ourselves if the marriage is bad. No, the law is still worth discussing, and the law could still be amended and a fundamental correction would be if the amendment were adopted and the others could then follow, the amendment that would not eliminate the commission or its independence. Therefore, for these reasons, because of these concerns, we will not support this proposal for a law. Not only are we not going to back him up, we're going to challenge him. By the way, let me take a look at the thought that's been expressed, how to give the "gly hip a set of stitches". He doesn't hold on to all this. If it was thought that the coalition as a whole supported what one part of the opposition had proposed, then it must be made very clear that those of us who have a reserve bench do not therefore strike together, as has now been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I also believe that it is not good that one so-called opposition party is united in common interests, which in this case is certainly not, can in any other, both the government and the government coalition and that they are trying to convince the public as a whole that they are doing well for anti-corruption activities in Slovenia. I'm sure that's not true. They're doing damage to anti-corruption, maybe that's their purpose. What's this all about? Let us look at and tell gentlemen once and for all what is the same in the existing solutions to the anti-corruption law and in the new solutions and what is different about what we are talking about. It is the same as before that we have defined officials who have to declare assets, the same as with regard to the prohibition of gifts, the same as with regard to the incompatibilities of the performance of the function, the same as with the possibility of punishment, which we have also regulated in the law so far. If it was any worse, we could fix it. But the present law still had certain tasks that you consciously do not keep talking about and letting go. It is simply that there have been some chapters in this chapter, in this existing law, which have otherwise regulated the operation and fight against corruption. First time. The Commission, which we are suspending today, has had its own control, has had control in the parliamentary committee, which you raise as the only objective. Even now this surveillance has been and such a commission has worked, and now you think that the parliamentary commission will act better on its own without supervision. I just don't believe it, and it's not a good solution. The current commission you're suspending has been tasked with monitoring the state of corruption in the country. No one has this authority under the new jurisdiction. To cooperate with national authorities in the preparation and coordination of anti-corruption rules. No one has that authority. To cooperate with similar authorities of other countries in assessing the situation and seeking the best solutions to fight corruption. Nobody else has that authority. To give principled opinions and explanations of incompatibilities, gifts and other issues that may constitute corruption. No one has that kind of authority. And say this, we are simply removing the type of tasks and responsibilities, because we do not think they are necessary, but they meant organised preventive action and the creation of a social climate for more anti-corruption, and I, Sir Barovic, deeply agree with myself that there is no point in putting all anti-corruption action on officials and assuming that all the officials are corrupt, villains, thieves and bribes. Right, you're the only one who's doing this with your bill because you're reducing the entire content of anti-corruption action to some commission that's going to check the assets of the officials, the salaries of the officials, or have, as you said, a house, a boat, a weekend and similar things, but it's not going to provide preventive anti-corruption action, and that's what's bad and that's what needs to be stressed. And let me put it another way, which is unobjectively and falsely spoken in public, that so far this commission, which we're abolishing, has done nothing. Gentlemen, on 1 January 2004, the law entered into force, for five months the Commission acted, good or bad, but five months and five months after it was established and put into effect, you proposed its termination. Certainly with the aim of not working anymore, not with the aim of doing bad things in the past. Please state that it was independent because it was placed under the influence of the previous policy. At least say that. Indeed, he appointed members of the National Assembly, but one was proposed by the President of the Republic, one Council of Justice, one Council of State and one Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and you assign to all these bodies that they represent only unilateral political action, and that the composition of the Commission was subject to the previous coalition in the new term. Like the next one. You do not want to admit that the abolition is an independent, independent investigative or anti-corruption commission contrary to the views of international organisations. I'm not going to list them because I know you know them, but you don't want to say that. First of all, I don't blame you, I resent the government. I resent the government, which does not have the right to say that all international institutions dealing with anti-corruption oppose and warn and say that they will require detailed reports and that this decision today, if taken by the majority, will be bad for anti-corruption activities in Slovenia. And to finish, all these are reasons that we do not want to speak honestly and that show that the decision that will be taken today - and I believe that the Slovenian National Party and the government coalition, which have common interests this time, is not to reveal anti-corruption action, not to prevent us from having a majority, but to the detriment of Slovenia, not to its benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the time of the transition, some have succeeded in gaining enormous wealth, which we ordinary citizens will probably not be able to access even if we lived more lives together. Certainly, some of this wealth was obtained even in a legal way because the laws were such that it was possible. Surely, though, some of the wealth was also obtained by means of corruption. And those who made such a situation possible, this is the former ruling coalition led by the LDS, to cover the trails to fall with the ashes, to set up a so-called independent Kosovo commission that will pursue alleged corruption and all those non-controversies that, at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers, have become rich and consolidate their position. Emphasis is placed on an independent commission — a commission that was designated as a wish — to the extent of the then ruling coalition. And this is an independent commission that is supposed to prosecute alleged, potential and also actual people who took advantage of corruption. Any association on the previously pronounced river "the crow does not rule out the eyes" can only be accidental. If we look again at who appointed someone to this committee and what interest, who could have been involved in the work of this commission. What were the interests of those who set up this commission and appointed it, and I can use the already twice-spoken river to "shut up" about it. The new Commission, which, according to some, is independent, not independent, but dependent, but not good, is not good, because it will be attended by representatives of all the parties represented in this Parliament, where it will be able to hear the voice of anyone, including the opposition, and where it will also be possible to publicly verify the work of this Commission. And this very presence of the opposition, the public working, this is the best control, this, not in some narrow circle, elected commission that acts in the interest of I don't know who. We have previously heard that it is not true that this existing, so-called independent Kosovo Commission uses 1 billion a year to make it not a real number. I don't think it's real, but even if this number is much smaller, it's always necessary to ask whether the money that was used is justifiably spent, whether the purpose for which this Commission was financed, what the results were, is a question. And even if ineffectively, without any results, they spent only 1 tolar of the taxpayer's money, it's too much. And in the case of this so-called independent commission, there were no practical results, and I think all that was spent was throwing money away. Mrs Shirca, please, I have the floor, if I am not mistaken, and I will leave you alone when you have the floor. As a result, I have no doubts or objections as to this law. I think we will get one effective, cheap institution that will successfully carry out the task for which it was established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Some facts need to be answered. Of course, hello to our visitors as well. See, six employees and six administrative workers probably more at the end of last year were employed by the so-called Kosovo Commission, so if we quickly recalculate the costs, very expensive mail, and wages, Mr Kumer, are not folded data. Value judgements to give about who was essentially honest and who was not, let's look back and we will see, I do not want to warm up the old'minester' but also the biggest affairs today, let's say the city mayor, the Red Cross, but not to mention the overpaid salaries of some of your, current and active politicians. All of these are corrupt acts that the system has essentially proved and confirmed. I have limited myself to your moral prejudices and to your statements "to the deaf assembly of the roosts." And I would like to say that this is precisely the purpose of exploring some of the consequences that we have today, that there are 100,000 unemployed, the Red Cross, we know that this is even your official, who has run for office on your list, the United Letters, then the Social Democratic, and Elan, in fact the SIB Bank, but not about Zbiljska Gaju, but about the Insurance Society Triglav. Listen, the principal buys the shares essentially, and gives them as a guarantee to the bank's unpurchased stock. Today it has the largest market share in this establishment. That's outrageous. Thus others also bought and came to an enormous wealth. And the fact that we can also talk about Falcone is about, in fact, Elan, who is, in fact, our main company, which bears the Slovenian name. Who's here? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Mr. Friend!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	No, it's corruption. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	but we are talking and discussing the bill. [[...]] Please remain within these limits.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I want to say. These are unexplored cases, and no one has actually said anything about it. These people walk freely on the streets, yet they stole Slovenian society. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Mr. Friend, one more time. We're not the commission investigating this. We are now discussing the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	We are talking about a commission that has done nothing in this area, Mr President-in-Office. [[...]] Of course, no one thinks about the consequences of corruption in Slovenia. 100,000 unemployed people are in Slovenia. Did we have a number like that before? We didn't. There's a parking space out there and go check out how many bums there are today asking for money. This has never happened. I've been talking before. You who so defend honesty. Today, people in successful companies that are locked up today are on the road. And that's it. We don't need such an anti-corruption commission. Yes, and how many successful cases have this commission brought to court in order to bring these cases to justice. Let's talk about this. Does it make sense to give such money, budgetaryly, to such a committee that has done nothing? In my profound belief, I'm sorry, this is an act of throwing money through an open window. And it's true if we look at it, look at the duality. I will read, I do not want to read, in Finance it says, as the main reason for the failure to collect signatures were stated in the Young People's Party, the reluctance of opposition LDS parties and SD to their action. Both parties were vocal opponents in Parliament of the abolition of the said Commission, but the Youth Parties did not support the signing of signatures. That's what it says in Finance. And today, you are broad-minded as to how you would like to have this commission, which you just set up at the end of 2004, to continue. Until then, only one piece of what the then Secretary of State, Mr Rop, said was well said that, in fact, corruption in Slovenia is not enough to require a law on the prevention of corruption. That is what Mr Tone Rop, then privatising secretary, said. That's been said many times, and there's something else. We also have a vote sheet, our initiatives from years ago when we were 31.5. 2004 called for an extraordinary session to essentially talk about corruption and customerism. And who objected? United List and LDS. In this session, you're all moral today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Mr. Kumer, I missed you earlier. I'm sorry. What did you want? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Now I have such a duplicated replica because I, no, because I was also now named, I used to be indirect, and now directly with my last name, so I can replicate. I'll start with that. I trust Minister Virant here, and this sum you're talking about is, of course, four times smaller than Minister Virant's figures when we're talking about the annual sum. That's why he just doesn't hold that number. And second. Once and for all, I will now present numbers, which of these in the last 15 years, how long has he been in power to not only talk about one party or one coalition. LDS and SLS 11 and a half years, Desus 9 years, SKD, NSI, ZLSD, SD 7 and a half years and SD 5 years and SNS no years. By reminding all those who always speak back about these coalitions that you have been more or less in coalitions or governments or authorities besides the SNS. And today, when you talk about corruption, about the past 12 years, you will find your period in this period of time, when you were in power and when this corruption was the most transitional, since 1991 it has been a problem that we have been experiencing intensely. Let each man find his own place and place.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Mr. Run, please. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	I repeat to Mr. Friend, too. The first thing I would like to say is that the Commission has not done anything, Mr Friend, comes from the assumption that you do not know the law, because the commission did not have one, perhaps even Mr Virant will confirm it, although it confirms mainly what corresponds to it as a political concept, it did not have a mandate to file complaints. She had other tasks, Mr. Virant, not to press charges. And so to say how few complaints she has filed is nonsense, just as I would have asked you how many complaints have been filed by a parliamentary commission that has worked for 12 years. None. But it wasn't her job either, so don't mix the fog where it can't be. And second. You've told us, my clients, that we haven't signed for the referendum. True, we gave them to individuals, as a party we did not organize them. Why not? Because we do not want to again have the opportunity, as today in Parliament, to spread two months of falsehoods, lies, accusations against one another, to deceive people, and on this basis try to take responsibility for the abolition of this commission to citizens and citizens who have already publicly said that this is a bad decision for them. Working a referendum on this subject, which will be no more than an untruth and a lie, makes no sense. However, the government and your client have already decided that anti-corruption commissions and preventive action are not needed because the prosecution, the police and others know that they are doing something else. Even if the referendum were successful, it would find another way to shut down this commission or disable the work, so this referendum makes no sense to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Slovenia had, the anti-corruption commission and will have, from now on, a different composition and a different composition. I claim that it will be political, that there is no talk about it, as it has been so far. Even so far, it has been political, although it has been appointed or elected by other authorities and representatives of the authorities. But to say she wasn't political is ridiculous to me. This commission, which will be a national constituency, will be made up of much more democratically. Here the representatives of the various parties will look clearly at each other. The existing commission was a 'paper tiger', we have already talked about this, if I recall also in this National Assembly, which was carrying papers from its desk to the tables of municipal mayors, municipal councils. And they answered back. In short, these papers have been circulated here and there without any effects that would mean a reduction or detection of corruption. The great anachronism that was done was that the councillors had to declare their assets, as I will say, the largest, highest organs or people or we who are in Parliament. Since they attended a congregation meeting once a month, perhaps even one of the municipal bodies they participated in, they were treated the same way as all of us who obtained significantly more from the meetings than from the meetings, and we are significantly more involved in the system itself. This anachronism has caused even major problems in some municipal councils. Usually, those who were the most capable and most working and competent saints were simply saying, "We've had enough of you." And they stepped out and caused problems for mayors and municipal councils. This happened in several congregations. There have also been rumors here in Parliament today that public opinion does not support the abolition of the so-called Kosovo Commission. Look, if that were true, I mean, and I'm sure you'd just get enough signatures and we'd have a referendum today. This was not the case, and I say that the public opinion was not as it was said that the public opinion fully supports it. It didn't support, it didn't. A public opinion that supports one thing makes it easy to win 40,000 votes and demand a referendum. That's what I think you can all make public. The National Assembly Commission will carry out those administrative tasks, I say that it is as responsible and as correct as this Commission. But the prosecutors and the judiciary should do their job. Let's let them work to detect crime, and I think the effect will be significantly better than it was now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll continue where my colleague Veršnik ended up. Today we have two committees, one is a parliamentary committee, one with its powers, one is independent, which has as much to do with us as we then call it and report to us. Not anymore. The Commission, which we have in Parliament, is composed of us, Parliamentary parties form it and it has its tasks, which we have known for 12 years. And when you say that one commission is simply enough to give us two, I heard my colleague Kovacic say this thesis. Let me tell him that I would gladly and more easily support the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, by which we would abolish our commission, which is one of those committees that, like many others with the task of investigating, overseeing and so on, what are not very successful in revealing how many things are happening here in the house. If we went the other way, it would probably be easier to reach my personal support. See, despite efforts to explain, to justify, to apologize by the proposer of this marriage novel, it is impossible to mask the smell of a strong political "deal" between the proposer and the coalition. And this "deal", at least in politics, is elsewhere called, in the economy, can also be corruption. It's a deal, you've agreed to terminate a commission that you don't like, which is your jurisdiction, which has already given this authority some signals about its power to detect and detect cases of corruption. When I listen to one of the candidates accuse the Commission of being guilty of having 100,000 unemployed people, of being out here homeless, of having some affairs undiscovered, I wonder if the parliamentary commission will find jobs for 100,000 people with new powers to detect undiscovered affairs. I place my trust on their souls and on their responsibility to do so, because you have decided to abolish the so-called Kosovo Commission. Today we were visited by the European Enlargement Commissioner, Mr Ollie Rehn. As you know, the European Commission has given quite a bit of attention to the enlargement process of the European Union and to the bids in the Western Balkans to fight corruption. And Mr Rehn has made it clear that they expect candidates to be set up by the government, politics, the economic powers of an independent commission, as we have formally today. This is exactly what they expect of all candidates starting accession negotiations with the European Union. And I wonder whether we no longer need this commission by entering the European Union. I almost asked him about it, but I was embarrassed. As I said, you have a majority, you will decide to terminate this commission, despite the contrary public opinion. At the time when the signatures for the invitation to tender for the previous legislative referendum were being collected, I also gave my signature. I don't know if I'm going to do it again on a possible legislative referendum initiative, because sooner or later we're going to have to set up this committee. If we abolish it today, after we sign the convention, we will have to re-establish an independent commission on the pressure of other international institutions, I repeat, from the government, from political, economic and other power centres. If this mandate does not exist, if this majority does not exist, we can, of course, inform the public that if our party takes office next time and leads the government, this will bring the Commission back to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	Mr. Friend, would you like to? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! There's only one sentence to his forerunner. Don't judge people by yourself. If you're talking about "political dilemmas," you have experience with them and practice. That's all. Last but not least, corruption was the most discussed at a time when you were sitting in the same place, but in a second position, the position of a government representative. And I'm only going to mention two people flying directly to your client, the Red Cross, and 100,000 jobs. Proven corruption. At least it's media. You will find it difficult to convince people that in these cases it was not corruption. In the Slovenian National Party, we are by no means in favour of setting up commissions on the Commission. This was the practice of the previous term because you wanted to cover with one committee some speculations that were happening and you didn't want to reveal yourself. As for the non-political activity of the current Kosovo Commission, which has been so much talk, I must say that it was very worrying when Mr Kos raced through Parliament up, down, of course, only one party, not all, and then tried hard not to get into the procedure at all. And he even called press conferences. The question whether at that time he feared for the welfare of the State and for the existence of a commission to prevent corruption, whether he was afraid for the well-paid chairmanship of the Commission. As I have already said, practice and experience bring about the possibility of talking about corruption. I have heard this today in some debates. I don't have them myself, and it's gonna be very hard to talk about corruption. Someone also mentioned that the Commission had the task of monitoring corruption in this country. We agree, corruption, I will say, according to the Member's duty, we must also be accompanied by the government. We can talk about this, because of me, three Members of Parliament, and we will do this, and we do not need to get any of the compensations that this committee has received for its monitoring of corruption in this country. True, the hand on the heart began to work in 2004, when the time came when fighting was already few things to follow, because the main things were happening by 2004. And then you know that this commission hasn't been there, and since 2004, this commission hasn't really had much to follow, except for some very skilled anonymities coming to this commission. That's more or less. As far as the trial of the referendum is concerned, as someone has already mentioned. You know, in my opinion, it was more of a lag in the fog of a parliamentary party or a satellite to show up a little in public and maybe try to get into a political scene that failed. I think that all of you who oppose this law at the time have found that public opinion is not on your side, but on the part of those who propose the law. For assembling 40,000 signatures at such a level of public affection as you have shown, it should be a cough, not a torture of one month, and an attempt by one satellite to appear in two media outlets, and even then, because of your lack of support, these satellites have made you blacker than they have praised you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! Corruption and economic crime, if we look at it a little bit wider, is certainly one of the worst problems facing Slovenian society. Corruption has also fallen apart in Slovenia during the transition, because it has not been fought against. The former authorities did not establish a mechanism to combat corruption, the Crime Commission's department to combat economic crime and corruption was practically decommissioned and there was no political will in the country. And the fight against corruption depends in particular on political will in politics, as well as on the Commission itself, which was now established at the end of the mandate only as a "blef" for the people, as a smoke screen for which the transitional February could continue. And since this political will was not there, I strongly agree with one speaker who spoke about common interests, and I must conclude that there is an extraordinary common interest between the so-called Kosovo independent commission and, say, your party after the selective persecution of corruption or the apparent persecution of corruption. And for that reason, such a strong interest in maintaining such a commission. I firmly believe that the Commission, given what we know, can be in the future when it is significantly more independent in Parliament. At the very least, every single election, every time we make up a democratic parliament, we provide a much more independent commission. And see, when you talk about the independence of the Commission so far, I must say that it is my personal opinion that it has been more created in synergy with the previous authority than the commission to promote corruption and conceal corruption than to pursue corruption. Also because of the past and the functions of some members, I do not say all of them, but some of them, in their activities and other possibilities of persecuting corruption in other functions in advance. But no, some preferred to deal with human rights violations. And again talking about independence. Faced with the messages of the previous week, when the pardon was given, which is a terrible blow to the fight against corruption and economic crime, an unheard-of blow to this. And to speak also in this connection, see, as I know it, I have information, between that well-funded committee for the collection of support for pardons, Mr Ferrari, I think, and the member of this so-called independent commission, which is a spouse. At least so much should be done to eliminate them and not be the most active in these efforts. Those weren't random mannings. Even in view of the connections and hunters of some of the people around the President, I must say that it is clear to me that some of the centres of power, which are extremely powerful in this country, who have also worked very hard in the past not to prosecute corruption and economic crime, have played an extraordinary role here. Even though we were able to convince ourselves on television this week that the President of the country does not know what he is signing, which pardon. That turned out to be true. One pardon was clearly shown not to know. And that so-called independent people, who also have rich connections with the past, can make a lot of decisions, a lot of things. Once again, this message last week is a monster to fight corruption. And I think that this week's message, if this law is adopted, is significantly better. I'm aware that there won't be any brilliant results overnight, but we'll get a more independent commission. Also, this Kosovo Commission so far, tell me when other cases have already been cited, but what has Lip learned about officials in this case. We are all aware that 60 million unpaid fines are not possible without some generously mending it to make inspectors disappear and all that. Has the Kosovo Commission found out anything about why this was possible, why three young people's lives have gone as a result? It was not effective, it worked selectively, it worked very politically and, of course, there is a common interest between those who set it up, or wider politically, and its functioning. And I also agree with Mrs Potrate's opinion on Kosovo that the crows do not exclude their eyes. I agree with this, but I am not personally referring to these Members, but to the political backdrops and the political power centres behind this. She said the right thing here. Actually, I'm grateful for that. Well, one more time. By adopting this law by setting up a parliamentary, substantially more independent commission, I think that we can do much more against corruption and also that corruption on parliamentary debates will be present every day. This could be the best fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would ask those who talk about corruption or the corruption of the former authorities to stop the flat-rate accusations and to complain about it because, as a party to the former authorities, we feel completely unharmed in this regard. This probably applies to any other client, but I wouldn't start the interests of others. In principle, I agree that our party strongly supports any attempt to combat corruption. But in one year nothing has happened yet. If we are referring to the anti-corruption commission, which is supposed to be completely ineffective, then it should be noted that, while some have access to corruption assessments and clearly to data on this and evidence that they could be assessed as completely ineffective and abolished by the police, this would be in line with the Coalition Treaty, where we have written that we will abolish ineffective anti-corruption institutions. This is written on the upper half of one side of the coalition contract. That is why I think that this debate is in the sense of ineffective anyone too easily taking place and having my own fun if it is not a serious matter. As for the Commission itself, which is now supposed to be formed under this law in Parliament, we have another problem in our parliamentary group. We are already burdened with 5, 6 commissions and committees, we are running out of time to seriously read and prepare for the debate on legislation. Given that this Commission is supposed to work more seriously, I think that the Members who will be there should abandon all other work and probably not be able to carry out their functions effectively in the work of this Commission, which means, of course, that I do not see through this prism the possibility of effective work of this Commission, which within Parliament will assume the role of an existing commission. In doing so, I do not want to go into the area of the reasons for the abolition of the existing commission, where I think it was more about the fact that the President was in the stomach of many people than the Commission as an institution. Our problem is also that we would in no way want and support the abolition of the institution simply because it has unacceptable leadership for someone. That's what I think is wrong with that. Of course it can be fixed with these amendments. If they do, we'll back this thing up, or unfortunately we won't be able to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I don't know what 100,000 jobs, which was one of the passwords in one of the pre-election campaigns, have to do with corruption. This is fraught with common sense. The dismantling of an institution recommended by international organisations as one of the forms of fighting corruption is, in my opinion, contrary to the rule of law. In addition, I witnessed yesterday the mockery of some municipal councillors at a meeting of the municipal council, when a letter from the municipal administration was also attached to the material so that the saints would give their information so that the commission, which still exists, could have an insight into the income forecast. They were making fun of each other. With this disassembly of a legal commission that has been recognised so far, you have also made a reverse effect among local officials. They may ridicule even when the National Assembly Commission asks municipal councillors to give their information so that they can have an insight into the income forecast for the past year. It is obvious that the Slovenian National Party has written a law following the dictatorship of the ruling coalition, so that it does not stain its hands. In any case, it will remain a stain on her hands that will be difficult to erase. What Mr Jerovšek told us, when he told the Social Democrats that we were violating human rights, was that when the government coalition adopted such a text of the Asylum Act, it was simple to transpose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	Please, Mr. Bajc has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	I'm a friend of Sam's. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	A replica of what?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	On incorrect terms, Comrade Bevko. He does not need to mention anyone, but if we read article 14 of the bill under consideration and article 20, it will not be true, my colleague, only that municipal councilors will be ridiculed when they receive a call from the National Assembly Commission, which we are establishing, but can be punished with a fine of between 50,000 and 300 thousand. I don't know if they'll laugh when they see it and read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Do I have a word or something? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	No, because I didn't know what he wanted because he was walking around. Please, Mr. Kovacich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague, opposition Member, was raised in the opening presentation of the opinions of the parliamentary groups, as some Slovenian La Passionaria exclaimed "Non Pasaran!" This is probably what she wanted to say to La Passionaria Dolores Ibaruri, which is in some ways also indicative of her position. The fact is that by doing so, she wanted to say - or her parliamentary group - that she would try with all her power to stop the breach or passage of this law through the parliamentary procedure and its implementation. The main motive is probably the Commission, or the main motive, probably to maintain the existing anti-corruption commission. Why is this commission so necessary from its point of view or from the LDS Group of Members? I can only imagine this because the commission that this party, which was a ruling party in the previous term, had some political influence. For the Commission was also appointed by the majority in the previous term, while the other was a poor half, that is, a minority, opposed this composition. Which means that this commission, which is so widely spoken of as being independent, was, of course, still kind of independent, but we have to ask ourselves who she was independent of. I'm sure she was independent of the opposition back then. Surely the opposition of that time did not have any political influence. But apparently because of the appointment method, the then ruling coalition had some kind of influence. And that is why it is necessary, with all the means, to try to maintain this committee with all the power. That is why there is also such a fear of the parliamentary commission, which is certainly political, and in some ways each individual will be politically dependent on certain policies, but the Commission as a whole will certainly be independent of individual policies. And it is likely in this that this fear - that is, to keep the Commission, which will in some way be the transmission of certain policies in this Parliament, which was a pre-ruled policy. And, of course, in this mandate, it is also desirable to maintain this effect that this commission will still be a transmission of a certain policy, which is now in opposition, while at the same time preventing a parliamentary commission that would be composed so that all political parties will participate in this commission and, of course, when the opposition has a majority in this commission and even the President, it would certainly be ensured that there is a significant measure of independence, certainly more significantly than before. This, in my opinion, says enough about what is the real purpose of this resistance to the proposed law. This is exactly what it means to continue to have an impact on the existing Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I am sure that my colleague Bevko and I have known so well for 10 years that it is impossible not to understand what I was going to say, but that this statement was that I condemned their client or those Members of Parliament for violating human rights, manipulation. Of course it was manipulation. I was talking about that the bad news was that the previous commission and the previous authorities had put a man at the head of the commission who had proven to have violated human rights in the case of journalist Ranc. And that was also a bad message for the fight against corruption, for corruption is also an attack on human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. It is amazing what we have heard when this law is being discussed in this national assembly, and it is even more amazing what we have read in this connection in the media. Surely this is also a reflection of our reality and of our uniqueness, because it is the media who, at this point in particular, could have discovered through a different yellow press significantly more than the so-called commission in charge of this and the law. But we in Slovenia have a specific arrangement in this area as well, and we are likely to witness to this refugee for some time when some will resent that we are changing the bad order. For, beloved, go away from this hall a little, especially those who may have been in it for a little longer, or say too long, and listen to what people say. And if you find that they are satisfied with the fight against corruption in our country, then I think you're right. But I'm afraid you'll hear 99.9% the other way around. People will tell you that this attempt by the previous authorities was merely a deception by the European and the rest of the public. It was just necessary to show before Europe that we are also fighting corruption in Slovenia, and therefore it was necessary to do something to the Commission, which was already known at the start that it would be done in such a way that it would not be able to do anything at all. And that's the problem with the system that needs to be solved. It's very uncomfortable to say "ad personam" in this connection. And it's also wrong because I don't think this topic is a debate "ad personam" but "ad rem". And if we are talking about things, then we will all agree, and I firmly believe that everyone in this national assembly, that this arrangement is not good, this arrangement that we now have is not good. And all of this momentum is pumping around the referendum and all of these things that were connected, is a simple manipulation on one side with a public opinion, and on the other hand perhaps even an attempt to preserve a bad, distorted state. That's a fact. And if we look deep into ourselves, we will attach this fact to it. I am not saying that the solution to what this change is supposed to solve will be given by the law itself. That's not what I'm saying. But all that will be better than what we now have is a step towards starting processes differently. It was already mentioned that all kinds of stupidity happened in connection with this so-called anti-corruption law. And I ask you whether it is normal that not dozens, not hundreds, of thousands of municipal councillors, who are all unprofessional, collect some paper, some forms, all of which is a document with which the official authorities already have an authority and who is peer-reviewed, on the other hand is released one whole segment of those entities that actually have an influence and opportunity and which, in fact, are subject to such or other temptations because of the nature of the matter and their operation. It's as if they're not there or we don't want to see them. I think it was just the action that was put in the wrong place. We do not need an authority to seek support for its public activities and to throw each of them one case, which will be estimated to be slightly more popular in the media. Then it is found that everything is nothing like this case in Radovljica, gentlemen, I think Kapus, who was 21% owner of a company operating with a municipality under a contract before the anti-corruption law. That's wrong. I think we need a body that will look for its confirmation in real work to detect things that are actually problematic and will not seek some cheap popularity, media support and so on. That's why I think the system needs to be changed. I'm sure whatever we do will be better than what we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	Mr. Rezman, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	When some mention the public's attitude towards this commission, let me just say empirical information. One of the discussions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	65% of us think it's useful. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	Mr. Ivan Grill, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! If there is a saying that in the event that you do not want anything to be investigated or ascertained, then this is certainly the case with the so-called Kosovo Commission. It is funny to attribute to this committee the so-called preventive effects and also some of the results, as previously mentioned by colleague Potrč, as many examples of practice show the opposite. I have already accepted several clients in my office who have tried to convince me with paper evidence that this is a number of corruption cases. It is funny, however, that all these evidences have also been transmitted to the anti-corruption commission and nothing has happened. Now you're gonna ask me what I could've done here. Just as much as I advised the client to turn to the prosecution on her own account, the prosecution must also examine the cases through its official function without any intervention from the commission itself. Now I'm going to touch on a few more experiences that I have myself as an official with this committee. This experience certainly was not unpleasant, but neither was pleasant. I had, if not something else, something lost and needlessly spent time in last year, when I had to fill out quite extensive forms. And the absurdity of all of this is that all the information I had to obtain and provide is practically accessible to every institution responsible for it. So it was for me, as well as for many municipal councillors, or thousands of such ones, who had to collect such data needlessly, but the Commission itself could operate on these data without having to provide them with the data itself. This year too, we have to send the change to the Commission again, but I, as an official or an MP and a municipal councillor, have no other income than pay and meeting. This means that there will be again thousands of unnecessary executions and referrals to the Commission. The Commission then collects this data, processes it, and all of this is barren work. However, I firmly believe that anyone who deals with or is involved in corruption in any way will find ways that the Commission will certainly not discover under its authority. Perhaps even the police or the prosecutor’s office has a great deal of effort and activity to investigate such a case. None of those corrupt persons will be entitled to any income obtained through corruption, to their transaction account or to purchase any assets in movable or immovable form. As far as the preventive action of this Commission is concerned, I firmly believe that there is no such preventive action. I believe that the most preventive cases can only work in public published cases that must be investigated by the police, the prosecution and that they end up with a judicial epilogue. Not as we have been faced with the case of Kovacic, which Mr President of the State pardoned. We know that corruption is certainly also linked to political corruption, which has been present and I believe that it is still today, particularly in LDS and Social Democrats. Once we have overcome this, both the police and the prosecution and the judiciary will be able to do their work in the way citizens and citizens of Slovenia deserve it. I firmly believe that the inefficiency of these institutions has been linked mainly due to the presence of political corruption. In my opinion and belief, this government has set a path that will follow measures that will prevent or limit political corruption to a minimum and thus increase the efficiency of those institutions that will practically guarantee the rule of law and also non-corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The problems you are talking about have been addressed for 12 years by the parliamentary commission, whose results and effects have been zero. That is why I do not believe now that the new parliamentary commission will suddenly start to look at the topic of modern customerism: the father of the university [[End warning sign]] Son of a movie theater, mother of a state administration and daughter of television. Or: father of a large state company and mother of property of the state. I don't believe this committee will [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	The list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been tabled for the debate has been exhausted. A proposaler or a government representative shall be available for 5 minutes. If there are no applications, I conclude the discussion on the proposal [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me? I didn't know, I'm sorry, Mr. Friend, whether you're wearing your jacket or raising your hand. Please raise your hand next time, and you will have your word. Let's do it again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. It's too bad you didn't ask me to take my clothes off again and put them back on. Your Honor! It is interesting to listen to these discussions in this hall when some answer only some marginal facts but do not respond to burdensome facts. Why you still support corruption in Social Democracy was my question. See, the mayor is labeled a notorious liar, she has done a lot of things wrong, and you still support her and she is the mayor of the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, one commission is not enough, we need two, it was said from your side. When did you set up another commission? In 2004, when everything was already privatised or the Balkans would say 'accepted' when no one else could be estranged. And then all the good businesses in private and some of them were enormously rich ten and a half years ago. However, it is also a European norm that, in fact, the wallets look at those who are essentially illegally enriched in a beautiful, simple way to prove the origin of their assets. How many Slovenians were before this fact that they had to prove today, yesterday, the pre-existing origin of their assets. I don't know any. However, not some of them have, in fact, become very wealthy citizens of the Republic of Slovenia during this period of transition at the expense of the citizens and citizens who are unemployed today. That's a fact. 100,000 jobs are due, in fact 100,000 unemployed or 100,000 jobs that you have promised and never, in fact, given to Slovenes and Slovenes, 100,000 jobs today unemployed in the institution, and this is due to corruption. That's a fact. And if we continue to have such a commission dealing solely with marginal matters, collecting data, how did someone from Upper Kungota actually submit or not submit a property report, and if he did not turn it in, of course, we will start shouting and screaming, as we know, or the Lower Leskovec, this commission will, of course, be for its own benefit. I don't know any legal convictions of the one who made use of social property so far. I'm sorry, if I'm wrong, let me fix this. That's why I don't think this commission is really doing anything other than reacting to anonymous reports and stalking people with disabilities. That's proved. And that's why the lawsuits are being filed by essentially affected by the President of the Commission, and he will probably have to defend himself even after this commission has been resolved, for the untrue facts that he referred to in public. I would also like to point out that, in fact, from 2004 to today, you are assessing that this commission has done something terribly good. No one in this room has said what these facts are, what these events are, which could have recorded so successfully the work of this commission. Except for those who have read the report that we had in reception this year, other than those that are not of course, we can understand from this report that the Commission has dealt more or less with itself: providing administrative and technical conditions, how they have too few employees, how they have too little money for their work, how they do not have sufficient authority to act in a qualitative way. And last but not least, this is essential, the Constitutional Court has found that the Commission does not act in accordance with constitutional law. That is the essence of which not one here today has pointed out and has not made a substantively qualitative comment on it. Why, then, do we have a constitutional court if the decisions of the Constitutional Court are null and void for you, ladies and gentlemen? The Constitutional Court has warned that the Kosovo Commission does not act in accordance with the Constitution and constitutional law. These are the facts which suggest that it is necessary to amend or abolish this commission and give jurisdiction to the so-called National Assembly Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I warn you that you have spent your time as proponents and that you have no further opportunity. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 9.2.2006. We move on to Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the related amendments of the same Group of Members to Article 21. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. The amendment of the LDS Group to this Article has been discussed within the framework of the related amendment to Article 3 or has been mentioned. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now I have to ask purely procedurally, did I apply to discuss the amendment to Article 3?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. So it's an amendment that [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Just a moment, Mr. Secretary. Please. True, we have concluded the debate on Article 3. You really signed up?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	He did apply, and if you have any comments, he did sign up, but we said we would wish he could eventually, but Mr Minister, that everything would be okay, please step aside from your debate. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The vote on the amendments will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 27th item of the agenda or at the latest at 15.55 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AVENTATIVE EXPOSURE OF THE SECOND PARAGRAPH 187. THE MEMBER AND OTHER PARAGRAPH 188. Member of the Environmental Protection Act. The proposal for the acceptance of an authentic interpretation for consideration by the Council was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal. I find that there are no ministers or representatives of the government, but I am informed that the Minister is on his way. Given that it is correct for a government representative to explain his proposal, I propose a five-minute recess and wait for the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Dear Members and Members! I shall proceed with the adjourned session of the 27th item on the agenda. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act. Hello, Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. You surprised me a little, and since there's a traffic problem outside, I apologize for this delay. Allow me to give briefly the reasons for the government to propose the proposed mandatory explanation. The Environmental Protection Act, which entered into force on 7 May 2004, provided that the chimney public service was no longer carried out by the local public service and had become a compulsory public service by the application of this Act. The Environmental Protection Act is set out in two articles, Articles 187 and 188, governing the transition of concessional and other contractual relations between municipalities with the public service providers to the State. After this arrangement, the first concession shall be awarded without invitation to tender to a person who, on the date of the entry into force of the regulation on the manner in which the chimney public service is carried out, is 18 December 2004, with the municipality concluded a valid concession contract or another contract for the execution of the chimney service if that person shows interest. On the basis of these rules, the Ministry of Environment and Space issued a public invitation in December 2004 to submit applications for interest in the implementation of the chimney public service. Following an examination of the applications, the Ministry of Environment and Space prepared a proposal in June 2005 for the award of the first concessions for the implementation of the chimney public service for those areas for which individual applicants of applications for interest submitted timely and complete applications. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed this material on 23 June 2005 and adopted a proposal for decisions for 94 chimney areas by imposing on the Ministry of Environment and Space to correct the decisions accordingly by shortening the period for which the first concessions are granted. On this subject, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia later adopted two other decisions which first set the period for which the first concessions for the performance of the chimney public service were to be awarded. It subsequently adopted a decision suspending the implementation of the cited decisions of 23 June 2005 pending the adoption of amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, which would fully regulate the implementation of the chimney public service. It was now a short chronology. Since this relatively complicated procedure has shown that the meaning of the concept of the current contract needs to be defined more precisely, the Government therefore proposes the adoption of an authentic interpretation in such a way that, within the meaning of Article 187(2) and Article 188(2) of the Environmental Protection Act, only that contract concluded in accordance with Article 36 of the Economic Services Act is valid. This Article provides that the concessionaire municipality shall choose on a public invitation to tender, unless the municipality’s decree in Articles 3 and 7 of this Act provides that the concession shall be awarded without a call for tender. This should apply both to those contracts which are expressly referred to as the concession contract and which are dealt with by the Environmental Protection Act in Article 187, rather than to any other contract of which the public service is subject. Such contracts, irrespective of their designation, have also been established between the municipality and the smoker service provider following the content of the concessional relationship and should therefore be subject to the rules of that Article of the Law on Economic Public Services in order to conclude them. This does not, of course, mean that these contracts do not apply in terms of bonds, i.e. between the municipality and the other contracting party, particularly when it comes to contractual liability for damages. Ladies and gentlemen, on this basis, including short chronology and relatively complex stories themselves, the Government proposes that the State Assembly, after discussion today, adopt the proposed authentic interpretation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was addressed by the Committee on Environment and Space as the parent working body. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolph Petan, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Environment and Space has considered a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act, which has been submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The committee was attended by representatives of the proposer, the President of the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council, the representative of the chimney section within the framework of the Association for Environmental Protection at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The representative of the applicant, Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, explained in the introductory explanation of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation that the purpose of adopting an authentic interpretation was to define the meaning of the term 'existing concession contract' in the second paragraph of Article 187 and the term 'existing contract' in the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment in deciding on the first award of a concession for the execution of the economic public service referred to in Article 148 of the Law. This is the contract which, irrespective of its designation, was concluded in accordance with Article 36 of the Law on the Economic Service, meaning that it was concluded on the basis of a prior invitation to tender and on the basis of a decision of the Community on the manner in which economic public services are carried out. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then explained that it was in the written opinion of the Service that the authentic interpretation of Articles 187 and 188 of the Law was not necessary or even meant the establishment of additional criteria which could only be incorporated into the law by means of a new law. In doing so, the Service points out that, on the basis of the provisions in force, interested persons have already acquired certain rights and that a change in the direction of authentic interpretation could constitute an infringement of the rights already acquired and a violation of the constitutional principle of trust in law. It explained that it was in fact the basis of Articles 187 and 188 that both the drafter of the law, who was also the proposer of the examination of the authentic interpretation as well as the legislator, was aware that the smokers' activities which had been carried out on the basis of contracts concluded in different ways prior to the entry into force of the law of the compulsory local public service were therefore duly regulated. This purpose of the bill-maker and the legislator is also based on the explanation given to both articles. The debate raised the question of what changes to the interpretation of the articles of the Environmental Protection Act in question meant for municipalities that had entered into contracts for the performance of the chimney service in their territory only recently with a person who had carried out this activity for years. These contracts have settled the status quo and are in force. The representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space explained that a number of complaints were addressed to the Ministry because of the lack of competition and disloyalty and the poor performance of the chimney service, both by citizens and by chimneys. It agreed that the implementation of local public environmental protection services under the Environmental Protection Act and the Economic Public Services Act by reforming local self-government was not adequately controlled by the State. They therefore argued at the Ministry that, in addition to the regulation on the manner and conditions of implementation of the compulsory public service, it was necessary to regulate the tariff rule, which would set a ceiling on the price of services, and to adopt an authentic interpretation, which would also allow the contract to verify that they were concluded in accordance with the statute of the municipality, the Law on Economic Services and the Law on Environmental Protection and, lastly, the Act on Smoking Activities, which was in force until 2004, so until the adoption of the new law on environmental protection. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act be adopted together with the proposed amendment of the Committee." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is not available to Mr. Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Presidents, colleagues, colleagues, ministers, government representatives. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act is an important content of today's session. I also note this because, at the initiative of citizens and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I am obliged to submit questions which have addressed to me a number of questions which, of course, I have also referred through the Institute of the written question to the competent ministry and to the Minister who is with us today, and I have also received an answer to them. Certainly, an authentic explanation is probably the shortest and fastest solution to the current problems, given all the comments we have heard from Mr Petan's position on the working body. However, in the Slovenian National Party we ask ourselves again and again, for a short time we were there when we talked about the authentic interpretation and the concept of the authentic interpretation was a double sword, and we are a little concerned and I hope that I will get an answer, around the opinion of the legislative and legal service, that in this case it is not an authentic explanation, but that it is, I am speaking indirectly, an amendment to the law. Of course, this is important if not for the other reason, because the authentic interpretation, if adopted, applies back, I get the amendment of the law - given how this is governed by the rules of procedure - and from the day this law is passed forward. So, Minister, a little later, I expect an answer whether this is consistent with the legislative and legal service, whether this is an authentic explanation of whether it is actually a talk about the amendment of the law. However, as far as the content is concerned, I must admit that it is complex and many comments on the Committee on the Environment and Space have been justified. One of the questions I have been asked by Slovenians and Slovenians is that concessions have been promised or already granted for 15 years, and all of a sudden all those who carry out this activity have been given a decision that the concession - this happened after a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, July - to grant them a concession only for six months. The answer I received from the government, although very broad, is on a few pages, but I must admit that he did not answer me exactly what and how. On the one hand, concessions should be eligible for a period of 15 years and, on the other hand, entitlement for six months, as I understand it, is justified by the Ministry's finding that there is a need to rewind the content well and prepare new relevant legislation. Given that, since today's decision to adopt the authentic interpretation we are talking about, probably already depends on good and bad will and a large number of people who are engaged in chimney activity, we have concluded in the Slovenian National Party that we will listen to the opinions of the professions, we will listen to the opinions of others and that it will be authentic in the event that it is not a violation, so that it is not an authentic interpretation, but a new law that we will also support this authentic interpretation with a single objective that, as far as I am able to understand, we will actually enable everyone or almost everyone to do so, on the assumption that, in view of the transfer from local community to the country, this concession will be legally regulated and very precise as possible. Once again, if the answer to the question can also be found, what should be the answer to the legislative and legal service which assesses in its opinion that it is essentially a amendment to the law, not an authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman, DeSUS Group of Members, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. In the DeSUS Group, we are determined to support the proposal proposed by the government to adopt an authentic interpretation of the law on environmental protection or individual articles. Earlier this chimney service was a compulsory service and now it will be a compulsory service. Previously, it was an economic public service, and now it will be an economic public service, and the important difference is that it was formerly a local service, and now it is a state service. We believe that there will be no major concerns on the part of municipalities, mayors and mayors, who have thus put aside one part of the problems with their shoulders, taken over by the state and these problems have been very often caused by conflicts, opposition and it is right that this country takes over and throughout Slovenia in a uniform manner. In order to manage this uniformly, there is probably a reason enough that these services are very important, including as regards the protection of our environment, and the influences that we as individuals cause with our combustion plants, of course not only on our own place, not only on our own village, on our place or the congregation, but they are global influences after they accumulate, so it is also right that this is all regulated. So far, this area has been rather unevenly regulated, and according to the information available to me, and it comes from the report provided by the individual services that have run for the first concession, so that, for example, where these concession services have been awarded - mainly for Styria and for Pomurska - where this is said to be substantially better than otherwise, the coverage of this protection has already reached 80% of the territories. Where these services were rendered in some way by individual contracts, it is said that coverage reached only half. This is said to be a large part of these releases, the hens and so on uncontrolled. And such a situation, so indistinguishable, even a bad one, we may not be able to afford it in the long run. We therefore support the fact that, in particular, those who have performed these services with concession contracts so far have this opportunity to carry out them in the future, many have not yet completed the concession contract, but if they were doing their job poorly, the concessional community would still have the opportunity to break these concession contracts. At the same time, those who run again will have the opportunity to run under the same conditions; therefore, the price will no longer be the first prerequisite for signing a concession, but at the same time at the same price, at the same time, at the same price, those who will be better equipped will have better technology, those who will have better equipment. This could therefore mean that we will also have better or less negative environmental impacts. The impacts on energy use should also be improved in this way. So, if we can promise these improvements, this unity across the country and this relatively good coverage of our territory with these services, then it is probably also justified to support the government proposal for the authentic reasons of this Article 187 and Article 188. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Franz Jazbec has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In Article 148 of the Environmental Protection Act, the Economic Public Service provides that the implementation of the measurement, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke pipes and air ducts for the protection of the environment and the efficient use of energy, the protection of human health and, last but not least, the protection against fire, this, so-called smoker service, is a compulsory public economic service, which was a mandatory public service until the application of this Decision, i.e. by 18.12.2004, this is referred to in Article 185 of the Environmental Protection Act, a local economic public service. The Environmental Protection Act, in its 187th and 188th Articles, regulated the way in which the concessional and other contractual relations of municipalities with the public service providers are to be transferred to the State. Under this Regulation, the first concession shall be awarded without a public invitation to tender to a person who has the date of application, i.e. 18.12.2004, a regulation on the manner, subject and conditions of implementation of the compulsory State economic and public service, the implementation of measurements, the examination and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke pipes and air ducts, the protection of the environment and the efficient use of energy, the protection of health and fire protection by the municipality of a valid concession contract or other valid contract for the execution of a chimney service, of course if that person has an interest. The substance of this Regulation and the award of concessions without invitation to tender shall be that the applicant interested in the concession shall, on the date of the entry into force of the contract with the municipality, have a valid contract or other contract to which the chimney service is subject. However, for this condition without a call for tender, a contract must be signed and valid between the municipality and the operator of the chimney public service before the date of 18.12.2004. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr President. The delegation of the Social Democrats will not support the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act. Not for substantive reasons, but for purely formal reasons, because this authentic interpretation goes beyond what the authentic interpretation is supposed to mean, namely, simply an explanation of what the national assembly and the bill-maker thought when adopting the law, meant what it meant, but changed the content of the law. We believe that a special warning from the legislature of the National Assembly is serious enough and weighty enough to allow the entire national assembly to think in such a way and to put the authentic interpretation not on the agenda of this meeting at all, but to reject it already on the Committee. We believe that it is particularly unusual for us to adopt at the same meeting amendments to the environmental law that have already been adopted and that at this meeting, rather than modifying what this authentic interpretation actually does, the law on environmental protection in order to do so in the same changes and additions that the National Assembly has already adopted. In particular, because part of these changes also talk specifically about emissions into the atmosphere, it is said that what is in fact one of the main tasks of chimney services, namely that regular monitoring, measurements and verification of the operation of combustion plants also ensure that emissions into the atmosphere are becoming smaller and smaller. So the second purpose of the chimney service is also to prevent fires, smoke fires, of course. In view of all this, because it is also in the very explanation of the individual presence on the Committee on the Environment and Space, where it was specifically stated that the Ministry of Environment and Space as the competent authority for the enforcement of legislation, it is said that the preparation of the regulations on the concession for the chimney service, which should be adopted in all 193 municipalities, after the law on environmental protection introduced the chimney service as a compulsory economic service at local level, resulted in the failure to control the work of the municipalities themselves, as well as the work of the chimney service, and the fact that in Slovenia, from 193 municipalities the concession boards, the correct concession contracts in a substantially smaller number were concluded than any other or not at all. 60 municipalities have all the right concession contract, which is based on the adopted concession act and on the tender issued. It is said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Environment and Space, and in particular officials at the Ministry of Environment and Space - those who were employed at the Ministry when this economic service was transferred to the local level or introduced as a compulsory public service in the municipalities, and the same official structure that worked at the Ministry of Environment and Space when the law was amended in 2004 and the same official structure, which did not ensure that the relationship or concessional relationship with the operators of the chimney service in Slovenia - given that the compulsory economic service was transferred to the state level - was regulated as is appropriate. Thus, if the municipalities have not carried out and done what they should have done in the past years, then a year's time for the country, for the state level, with all the apparatus the Ministry of Environment and Space has, could have been arranged as necessary. However, it is not that we are making bends and some circuits instead of amending the law, if we see that the law, as it is, does not correspond to the actual state or does not regulate the situation in such a way as to be satisfactory for all levels, but, of course, for users at local level, then it is necessary to make it clear that the mandatory interpretation does not regulate such things, but that, by amending the law, the errors made at the time of adoption of the law should be corrected, as I hear from many lobbyists, both on the one hand and on the other, that Article 187 came into law on the basis of a very strong integration of the work of smokers at the local level in 2004, and that others who have "better" substantially better conditions for carrying out this activity, are dissatisfied and are looking for a solution to the problem through a mandatory interpretation. Here is actually the need to express all criticism to those responsible who are not prepared to admit the fact that in the past they have not been able to prepare a law such as is necessary, but have given in to various pressures, and now that the situation has come to light when there is a threat to lawsuits not only on the constitutional level but also on the administrative and civil courts both on the one hand and on the other, to let go and to go with illegal procedure to the National Assembly and thus, of course, to transfer all responsibility to Members. We will assume responsibility for adopting an illegal act, which I call an authentic explanation, in order to satisfy the pressure of some groups in this country. I think it's pointless, colleagues and colleagues, that we take responsibility instead of those who are things, if you say more domestically, "screw". Therefore, our Group, as has already been said, will not support this authentic explanation, but at the same time we call on the Ministry of the Environment and Space and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do so as soon as possible - because the fact is that this authentic interpretation, according to the opinion of many legal experts, will not pass judgment or verification before the Constitutional Court - to immediately prepare amendments to the law that will allow for the implementation of what has been envisaged by the adoption of the Environmental Protection Act itself, namely that concessions for the execution of the chimney service will be granted at the level of the State. If the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered that the chimney service could be performed significantly better if it was centralised, then please prove it. Just one small comment about the explanation that was on the committee. Indeed, it is true that the chimney service is substantially better regulated in north-eastern Slovenia than elsewhere in Slovenia, mainly because the only chimney school in Maribor, and it is poorly visited or poorly registered in it, while it states explicitly that it is catastrophic in Primorska. So, in Primorska we have implemented, adopted concession decisions, granted concessions, concluded concession contracts, and I can also say that since these concession contracts were concluded, with all the problems we have and which we now have many more than before, the number of chimney fires, which is perhaps a side effect, but very important, has started to decline significantly since we came back into this chaotic state in the last year, the number of smoke fires began to rise again in 2004 and 2005. This can only say that the unregulated smoker service has not only consequences for air pollution but also for the general safety of property and the lives of people. And that is why I think that the Ministry of Environment and Space and the government that runs it should take matters seriously and get the law right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr President, for your kind greeting to fellow Members and Members and to the Minister with fellow Members. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we are convinced that the chimney public service needs to be regulated, and this should be arranged in a uniform manner throughout the country. This makes it possible for us to have a law on environmental protection that has moved this service to the state level. It is obvious, however, that this service was very different in Slovenia as long as it was a local economic service. And even because of this different arrangement, you might say, perhaps even poor arrangements in a number of congregations are now the Ministry in one way or another to make this transition possible, or how to grant this first concession to these chimney public services. The proposed authentic interpretation only clearly sets out the meaning of the term valid concession contract or valid contract, so that, within the meaning of those provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, only that contract which was concluded in accordance with Article 37 of the Law on Economic Public Services is valid, meaning that it was concluded on the basis of a previously published invitation to tender or on the basis of provisions in the Community Decision. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we initially felt that authentic explanations were not necessary. After finding that the legal profession in this regard is divided, so to speak on two opposite coasts, we find that the authentic interpretation is very necessary, so the Members of New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party will also support this authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Root. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the amendment to the Committee on Environment and Space and the text of an authentic interpretation. First, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Allow me to give a brief answer to some of the questions raised in your debate after the presentation of the groups. I'll be very honest with you. What Mr Koren said in the end is true. The government's in trouble here. We're in trouble. I was also in my introduction, in my chronology entirely, I would say, open. I've told you all the procedures that the government adopted on this subject last year. I went to the government three times last year on this subject three times. It's rare for you to go back to the government for one topic. I must also say that there was also a dilemma as to whether the instrument of compulsory interpretation was right or wrong - and we have consulted legal experts and I must admit here that the opinions were not uniform, but I must say that after more deliberation I have taken a solution which I think is correct. As Minister, I would say that today's path and act are legitimate in the fact that we are exploiting the Institute and clarifying the individual provisions of the law because of the insufficiently clearly recorded legislator. There's our argument. In our view, this is the right way to define, through the instrument of compulsory interpretation, the meaning of the concept of the treaty in force. I have something else to say, and here I am also answering Mr Barovic's question. The government's legal service weighed, and eventually it kind of backed us up this way. Now there's another question: why didn't we go along the road that was at this meeting, the law on environmental protection? It's really complicated. In fact, if we were to go this way, we would have had another paradox - to place this amendment of the law in a different position for the parties who applied for this invitation. And that's why the lawyers counseled us this way. And we are in a very difficult situation: at the same meeting of the National Assembly, we have a law governing this area and a mandatory explanation. However, I must say that I have taken this very seriously and we have yet another obligation, which I think will also be the legal framework for dealing with this complex situation properly. We have an obligation to transpose the Energy Efficiency Directive into Slovenia's legal order and we decide to fully address this issue - not least, this is also the topic that Mr Rezman was talking about - in order to try to regulate this area in one single regulation, all that relates to this issue, and we would exclude this topic from the law on environmental protection and certain other laws and would soon come to the State Assembly with a separate legal text. Perhaps this will be the most correct and clean European path in the end. Now let me have a few more answers to your questions or concerns. First, I would like to tell you that the situation on the ground is very different; I would not like to use the word chaotic, but it is worrying in this area. Each congregation has its own standards and criteria. And these criteria and criteria are sometimes impugned or no longer formally based in a substantive sense in the regulations governing the public smoker service. We also have a lot of complaints from our citizens. They talk about unquality work, sometimes they talk about non-professional implementation of smoke gas measurements, and they also talk about blackmailing with the overcrowding of the public service. There are a lot of complaints at high prices. They also talk about an arrogant attitude towards service users, as well as other complaints. However, that there is no misunderstanding, but there are also some chimney systems, which are generally smaller, but also larger, very correctly, under the applicable conditions, they can do their work. However, the fact is that current public service operators must carry out their work in accordance with the contracts concluded in the past, both with the municipalities and according to the programme and price approved by the municipality, the signatory to the contract. However, at the time of the procedure when we awarded our first concessions, contractual relations with municipalities and contractors proved to be very different, in most cases they were poorly defined. And here we see in an authentic explanation, in fact, in a given situation, the most correct legal basis for the award of the first concessions, in fact only to those public service providers who had a concession contract in accordance with the Law on Economic Public Services or in the way that it was awarded, as stipulated by the law, prior to the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act. But there's something else I have to say. We are preparing, even on the basis of this mandatory interpretation [[We expect that, despite the concerns, it will be adopted]] the amendment of the Regulation and the tariff rule for the implementation of the compulsory public service. In particular, the content of the new public service regulation is important, as the current regulation no longer complies with the current regulation, especially the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive. As Minister, I have also met with some colleagues in other countries, particularly Austria and Germany in this area. On the basis of the calculations provided in the draft tariff rule and taking into account the amended rules, it will be our assessment that the issue of the cost is important for citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens, for households, according to this first assessment, the annual cost of the average one-bedroom house, which for heating still, say, uses the fuel oil in combination with solid fuels, if this is the average Slovenian household, should be about 10,000 Slovenian tolars. That's our first grade. In Slovenia, the current situation is very different in terms of price issues. Of course, I have to say one more thing, we have talked a lot about the environment and space. When we go to the public tender, we are talking about those who will then run for the new public tender, I would like to stress the following: we will take into account such criteria and criteria for the award of these so-called new concessions, which will also take into account the criteria of the existing activity with the other criteria. So this will also be one of the criteria. This seems to me like a life-formed approach, and beyond this path, it will not happen to anyone who is somehow exempt. And there's something else I'd like to say. When we went into the instrument of compulsory interpretation and when we tried to build on the concept of the treaty in force, we were also based on the principle of competitiveness, this is a European principle. The issue of compensation for unlawful conduct was also mentioned today. Of course, first of all, someone has to prove such illegal behaviour in the process and now I can tell two potential situations. One is the situation before adoption, let's say that a mandatory explanation will be adopted today, or after the adoption of an authentic explanation. If we were to go into this procedure with regard to compensation before the adoption of an authentic interpretation, then the applicable principle of competition and European Union law require that the solutions provided for in the law that do not allow competition be disregarded. And let's face it, the law in force here is very problematic. If we are now on the road to supporting the National Assembly in all its complexity today, it is understood that only those operators who have contracts in force under a competition procedure have the right to concession on its basis. Everyone else will run for the new public tender. I also highlighted the important element that will be taken into account in the new call for proposals. In this case, in our opinion, there will also be no harm and there will be no argument to apply for compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you, Minister. Mr Christian Janc has the floor to prepare Mr Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, the distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, I would say that this story will also be in this place today, I believe that with this mandatory explanation, even cut out, because it has been going on for too long. The cause is certainly different. Many local communities had this story quite nicely arranged, on a local level with a concession contract, when the concessionaire received this deal and the matter was successfully running and there were no problems. However, I know that many local communities have had this area unregulated, abandoned, more than free, and I think that the consequence was probably the decision to transfer this story from local level to the country. The state faced this, certainly faced a number of problems, both chimneys and operators of this service, and probably something else, and this time, which the minister himself explained: a lot of problems, a dilemma in government, real opinions, legal, chimneys, if you like. And I believe that, with this story in one place, we will try to simplify for the whole of Slovenia and that, however, this service, which I think is very important in the context of environmental protection, will get one transparency of work, so that every local community and, finally, every household that has to have this service can also perform. Of course, every central story is not always the best. We locals also had some concessions, as they say, for the municipal budget. This will no longer be the case today, and at the expense of those poor, unorganized local communities, we have also lost this. Okay, that's the decision. Now here's the thing, I know that there's been a lot of debate at different levels, both with the chimneys of this service and with the Ministry and with the others. I hope, therefore, that this interpretation is confirmed by this legal opinion and that, however, this will cross one state, annually and more, and that it will finally allow this to be unified at the level of all local communities in Slovenia and that we will all have this service regulated as we want it to work in every local community. By doing so, we will lose something, but good, for the sake of other congregations, we will somehow be able to “eat. ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Ziherl has the floor to prepare Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the Minister with the co-workers! I myself will support the authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 180 of the Environmental Protection Act. Above all, I am drawn to this by all these developments that have led to this and, above all, to the fact that, in large cases, the whole area has been plagued by irregular conditions. In our area, I know, for example, dear smoke gas metering services. I could react to that, because I was in the factory myself, in Terme, working on the measurement of smoke gases, and I know how the matter can flow professionally, but how we can quickly fold something together and put a big bill. This must certainly be reacted to, for irregularities, poor setting of chimneys are dangerous, can cause fires, and from a safety point of view it is certainly necessary to introduce greater order, discipline. Competitiveness that services will be increasingly quality, that they will not happen what has happened in the past, when in some areas, as has already been said, poor services have been cost-accounted for, but nothing has been done in terms of security, in terms of better setting of smokers, chimneys and, in particular, in large areas of Slovenia, there has also been a lot of dissatisfaction in people because they have received in fact nothing for a lot of money. So, of course, as I said before, I'm going to back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Petan has given up. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I will be brief, although I could explain for a long time also, but I don't think it's necessary for most of us in this national council to know what it's like. But I'm going to tell you a little bit about my thoughts, and I'm going to say, after a year of all kinds of attachment. Much has already been said here today about the orderliness and regulation of the chimney service, which employees are also supposed to bring happiness not only to some high bill for their services. I can say that after one year, I already know the situation in this service quite well, so that I have in my office a full drawer of documentation that has accumulated at that time, and today we are here before a single sentence: what is a valid contract. And so it begins, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Law on Economic Public Services, the Bond Code, the Ministry's interpretation, the interpretation of the Faculty for Postgraduate Studies, the interpretation of Dr. Pirnat, the opinion of the Government's legislative services, the opinion of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly, and finally the opinion of us, individuals who also decide and do so. Your Honor, sometimes I really wonder if it has anything to do with justice. You know, for example, if I signed a contract here with Mr. Lovr Loncar to buy this national council, I don't think we could go in here without us. Thus came a number of similar contracts, which were signed by someone without taking into account laws, municipal decrees, laws, and other regulations. Today we will therefore decide here whether such contracts will still be the basis for granting concessions for 15 years to come. Of course, if anyone is deprived of what might happen, they will still be able to seek justice in court, but I don't think that much will happen. But there'll be a lot more if we don't accept these explanations here today, believe me. It is clear that there cannot and cannot be any other valid contracts for the performance of a chimney service, such as contracts made in accordance with law, municipal decrees and other regulations. I think it's clear that these are the mandatory rules that set things out, someone can't do things his own way, not in this country if we want to be a real state of law. Example. If the municipal decree for the award of this chimney service has required a public invitation to tender, the invitation to tender must also be made, not to sign contracts with individuals, while others who also wanted to carry out the service and apply for the invitation to tender remained with a long nose. I don't think that's right, and they can't burn contracts like that to the Ministry. Unfortunately not, because they're a bad journey forward. So I think that in Slovenia there will be plenty of room for all chimneys on the call, we have too few, they will have to educate themselves because there are not enough qualified chimneys, and there is no fear that any of these chimneys will be out of work in Slovenia. But it is right that things go to the public tender; they get the most favourable work there, and that is good for all of us. If we really want the situation in this area to be resolved once, I really ask that this proposal, which the Ministry of Environment and Space has sent to the National Assembly after a really long time of preparation and good study, is confirmed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	I must say that it is unusual to say that in this authentic explanation - I must say that I prefer the Slovenian term to be a mandatory interpretation, regardless of what it actually means - that in this mandatory interpretation we all go together mainly into content, but we must be careful that when a national assembly decides to decide on something in accordance with the Constitution and legislation; in this case it is a law that is in charge of this compulsory interpretation. But since we're talking about it, I would just like to remind you that there are many different opinions, initiatives, and, in particular, lobbyist interventions. [[Very gentle expression]] was also the opinion of Dr. Jambreka - Sorry, Jerovska - who runs the European Faculty of Law. And as it all appears, the European Faculty of Law explains things so that it is not possible in Europe to make illegal decisions, which will be the adoption of this mandatory interpretation today. I have no doubt that it will be adopted, but it will be easier for me to be at heart because I will know that I will not participate in such illegal decisions alone. And there's something else I'd like to say. If it has been difficult for the government and the Ministry to enforce the law - that is, those who know what has happened away from the public outside the soybeans of the public, we know that since the former government or the Ministry of Environment and Space - I have been stressing the role of officials in this ministry. Officials in this Ministry have drawn up a regulation, officials in this Ministry have drawn up a regulation, officials in this Ministry have prepared a call or call for those implementing the existing contracts to make themselves known to concessions or others in order to make themselves known for the performance of the chimney service in individual areas in Slovenia. From the outset, the pressure from chimneys, both from the Chamber of Commerce and from the Chamber of Commerce and also from those chimneys which did not cooperate through these two institutions, but wanted to participate in the drafting of a regulation which is either the basic implementing act of the law in order to achieve either one or the other. The fact is, in Slovenia there is a terrible shortage of chimneys, without being too few, without having to be educated. We don't have educated, qualified chimneys that could normally cover all of Slovenia, we don't have them. And here, for example, cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education is a secret. We are constantly hearing about how we do not educate technical professions, that they do not report that children are not enrolled in vocational schools, but we have a profession that has a significant impact on the security of people and property in our country, which is completely neglected, as regards the promotion of entry and training for this profession. The fact is that in the field in Slovenia people are doing chimney work, who have done some "shnelzider" courses and who are doing what they do. The Ministry, which has taken responsibility for this area, I think that the Ministry of Defence should also be linked to this for reasons of fire safety, has not done its job and is now giving us a mandatory explanation, which is illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you. A representative of the government also has the floor. Mr. Secretary, would you like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that, as Minister, I have had quite a few formal and informal meetings on the subject of compulsory education for chimneys. I would like to say that I have contacted a high school of construction in Maribor, which has one particular direction, but it is true that there is very little interest in entry. At the same time, when I proposed a regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the modalities, subject and conditions for the implementation of the mandatory State Economic Service for the implementation of measurements - the long title is - to inspect and clean combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts for the protection of the environment and for the efficient use of energy, for the protection of human health and for the protection against fire. I have covered all the topics previously mentioned in the debate, and I would like to say that I have received a very positive response from Dr. Jureta Zupan from the point of view of education and professional approach to this topic. I was aware of the issue relating to the professional aspect and of the fact that there is little interest in this activity in the Slovenian population. Now, however, I would respond to the second challenge of the distinguished Mrs Pecanova. It's a question of interegnum. In my performance, if you've been paying attention, I underlined when a public call was issued in December 2004. When did this government swear? In the first days of December 2004. So when was the public call given? I think one day before the government took an oath here before the National Assembly. However, some other moves were made at a time when, in my view, from a principle of correctness, political and other procedural practice is not the time when the government, which sends such sensitive matters into proceedings. And that's why we're in trouble because we're the heirs of these solutions that were under-thinking. There are three of us sitting here who had nothing to do with this procedure. Also on a symbolic level, I invited those of us here to turn over a new sheet of paper in this area. And I want to make more order here. And that is why I think that - here I have a different opinion than Mrs Pečanova - this mandatory interpretation, the term "authentic", although it is not "obligatory" in the translation, but in this case lawyers say "obligatory interpretation", is a legitimate act of the National Assembly and will allow me, as Minister, to carry out certain procedures in such a way that in the near future, you may be able to say in response to a question of the Member State that the Minister has fulfilled all the tasks he has in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, an amendment and an authentic interpretation will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote, that is at 2:15 p.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I understand that the voting devices are working. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda. This is by the third reading of the proposal of the Incompatibilities Act performing public functions with a gainful activity. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3 of the Act. First, an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! We propose that you support the amendment to Article 3, because this amendment guarantees what is normal and normal practice within the European Union. Several Members met this morning with Mr Olli Rehn, European Commissioner for Enlargement, who said that the neighbouring Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia, Romania and Bulgaria are considered to be a critical condition for their membership in the independence of the Independent Anti-Corruption Commission. This was also a condition for Slovenia's membership in the European Union. With the amendment to Article 3, we guarantee that Slovenia will still be among those European countries where, by means of an independent, independent anti-corruption commission, we ensure that European standards are met. Everything else that is being tried today is not in line with European practice. We regret, of course, that the drafters of the law were not able to write in the drafting of the law "in accordance with European directives", so we propose this amendment, which would ensure that in Slovenia they would ensure the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity and that, of course, they would have an independent and independent anti-corruption commission. On behalf of the Group of Members, I therefore ask you to support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] Who in the name of soy personal? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Unless the amendment is adopted, the amendment to Article 21 of the same proposal becomes irrelevant. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 75 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I also note that the amendment to the 21st Article of the same Group of Members is irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 17. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 67 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to the same article proposed by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 73 Members present and 51 votes against 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] [[...]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 21. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Tanko, please. No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. First of all, explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Portch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote against the law. We are convinced that the adoption of the law, as proposed, would constitute an important step back in Slovenia's efforts to fight corruption. It would not only mention the abolition of a self-sustaining and independent anti-corruption commission, it would also put an end to a series of activities that are necessary in a preventive sense and necessary to create an anti-corruption situation in every country, which is a condition for less corruption to be created and that those to which it occurs are then more effectively prosecuted before the judicial authorities and law enforcement authorities. There was never any point in the anti-corruption law that the anti-corruption commission should be responsible for writing criminal charges or perhaps even for direct prosecution and detection of such crimes. Other authorities, police, prosecutors and the judiciary are responsible for this. However, the Anti-Corruption Commission, acting by influencing and drawing attention to the content of the laws, with the fact that measures should be put in place in every state body to prevent the possibility of corruption by cooperating with international organisations and bodies of a similar nature, create the necessary anti-corruption mood. In cooperation with the national party, the government has decided that our country does not need such a self-sustaining and independent anti-corruption commission and preventive anti-corruption action. This is an irresponsible decision and we will take our vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On behalf of the LDS Member Club, I would like to report the following. From what we said earlier this morning in the opening presentation of the views of the LDS Club, also from what the speaker has just said, I predict that the LDS Club of Members of the LDS will not and cannot vote in favour of such a law. Because we're sure it's a disgrace to our country. Because we are convinced that it is inappropriate, unacceptable and harmful, for Slovenia, for democracy in Slovenia and for the reputation of Slovenia in the international public. So, no and no, as far as the LDS Club is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] In your personal name? Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you, President. Just two things to justify my determination not to this law. First of all, let us make it clear to the public that we are abolishing the only commission that is as much a part of the task as it has. What we have passed on to our parliamentary commission by this law, despite the best wishes and best intentions, of course this commission will not be able to detect and prosecute corruption. We know what our commissions can do and what we Members, a few amendments, a few initiatives, a few debates, a few questions, but we do not have the knowledge to deal with this phenomenon, so that the public can understand what the parliamentary commission will be able to do with the burdens we have with other bodies. And the other one. Earlier, Cvikl mentioned Mr Olli Rehn, Commissioner for Enlargement, he is leaving today, expressed his wish on our foreign policy committee that Slovenia would, of course, help with its model for the enlargement process. I think that the message we are sending to candidates today, who are charged with establishing independent, I repeat from the government and political and economic centres the power of an independent commission, is bad. We also have the commission that we still have today, we are still in office, we are putting an end to it. I don't know if this message will help the Commissioner for Enlargement and the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. I am particularly pleased that, with the confirmation of this law, I will finally help to make something happen in the area of corruption in this country. Sitting in a nest and waiting for something to get attached to it, it really got out of bounds. A piece will fly to other places with a nest. I'm only that much. If anyone thinks that Slovenia has become an equal member of the EU because of this, he is wrong. I have not heard that today there would be a panic in Brussels to call Parliament and Slovenia out of the EU, because there is no commission from this day forward. So the fear that you now wish to bring to other nations through this meeting is, in fact, pointless. By advocating such behaviour and with such a commission as we have now, expect Mr Drnovšek to invite someone else from LDS to his side or he will get many more volunteers than he did in the first round, which is why everyone likes the performance I heard before is actually welcome, because those who join him actually want to make a difference in this country at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	Respectable and respected. Mr President! I will vote against this law because, of course, in today's debate, everything has been mixed up, from what we call a place to bribery to a normal payment, it is clear that everything was wrong. This commission has been disabled, that's for sure. After a month of operation, she had to actually start fighting this and proving the meaning of her existence by making everything she did seem to be a surplus, because most of the time she went just to say that she was. In order for law enforcement authorities to replace prevention, it makes no sense. Even in traffic, we have a commission for prevention, and we know it works a lot better than all that curate out there on the road. And elsewhere, preventive action is far more effective and important. It's only been more than a month, two times. I believe that this law will be passed, as usual, to raise a finger, not to justify a voice, but to know how to vote. But something else is true. Voting this law will be a major step forward, towards corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, so far in this country, we have not actually had an institution to really watch over corruption. We've had since the independence of clientism and the theft of social property. Colleagues and colleagues! To this day, no man has sat down for all of this. But those who were condemned are forgiven, and those who were condemned are the ones who warned. Ivo Praises, for example. Convicted for pointing out clientism and corruption. Remember in 1994, when you were in this House - I was not yet there - you changed the penal code and the law on criminal proceedings. At that time, you were some of the crimes that were worse in nature and for which 10 years of punishments were threatened, etc., then expired the next day, in 1995. With this, the tombstones of Elan have been washed clean. The chairman of the commission of inquiry, who led it, was convicted and paid a million and a half fine for warning of irregularities. Remember, colleagues and colleagues, when this investigative commission brought charges against Judge Šubic and Prosecutor Bicl of New City wrote that he would not deal with it because he would come on thin ice. So, the whore thief’s municipal councillors would hunt, and of course nothing else happened. That is why I will support this law, and I hope that this parliamentary commission will do something about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Look, I'm going to vote in favour, because this is the only way to end one of the biggest and longest-existing farces in this national council. In the same period, when we heard very big words from some Members about journalistic independence, about the importance of protecting human rights, especially when it comes to journalism, these same Members were to the very end defending the existence of a commission that was without actual powers and that is why, again, those same Members put a man on its forehead, who, even after the court's findings, was the only one in this country who really violated the independence of journalists, specifically violated the human rights of journalist Tomaž Ranca of Television Slovenia, the case was very well known, and when it came to this particular person, for a really good journalist who did nothing wrong, but defended the values of Slovenian independence and his fellow journalist Petk, who almost paid his own life to fight for freedom of the press, then that great principle ended, or even became worse in his opposition. That's when he defends the one who did the wrong, not the victim. Thank you, my friend. Such a commission, which you once set up and which you yourself knew was already essentially its intention not to do anything effective, of course Slovenia does not need. Let's put this money on something else and, of course, let's vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, there has been talk about European standards, which should not mean that the very, very politically constituted Commission should be abolished. And there have been examples of how Romania, Bulgaria and the other members or candidates to join the European Union will look at us as an example if we abolish this commission, as you said. Romania looks significantly different, as we should look at it all together, to clean up and water down first the prosecution and then the judiciary, because the Romanians have thrown them onto the road a thousand two hundred, one third of their untouchable saints that we have with us, who have an absolute immunity and who have significantly better salaries than any Member here, including the President. And you would have kept this sanctuary of red ideology, which was nothing more than exactly what I said. Therefore, in fact, I am very happy that this law will be passed and, as it appears, we will get the first victim of avian influenza in Slovenia, Kosa.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I will also support the proposal for a law, and, above all, I am now encouraged by this debate within the framework of European standards. In fact, if the Commissioner for Enlargement Olli Rehn has set up some, or the whole European Commission has made certain requirements for new accessions to Romania, Bulgaria, the countries of South-Eastern Europe or the Western Balkans, then we can see that even if we were then to be watched, we would be measured with the same "guarantees" and look at the effectiveness of the existing commission, which in fact took a few municipal councilors to the fore, that Slovenia would not then meet the requirements and expectations of the European Union. For the existing commission, a dead body that failed, which had deliberately overlooked, had failed in the affairs of the Red Cross, Elan and similar matters, in the violation of human rights to journalist Ranc, and under European criteria would not have achieved this, and therefore I will certainly support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	President, thank you very much. A while ago, we discussed the need to adopt an ethical code of conduct for Members. This is what we have here today, in our everyday lives. We all know, as well as the public, that the commissions that have been in the past have done nothing, even perhaps because they have controlled themselves or have not been qualified or have not had time to deal with this problem seriously. That's why we saw the state we were in. And if anyone does, politics is the most vulnerable to corruption in the market economy system. And it's a good thing to legally regulate these mechanisms to stop these things. It seems to me that the previous commission, or commission for which we are writing to the requiem today, was doing its job well. She started collecting data, and a lot of people told me, mostly functionaries, thank God we got rid of it, at least we won't have to write those liquid forms anymore. However, some who may also be more deeply connected with certain phenomena that are harmful to this society are happy to wave their hands so that we can also bring one thing into the water where there will be no more control. We all know the book Who Fears Virginia Woolf - Today's vote will show who is afraid of the anti-corruption commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	If Slovenia were a candidate today, then those who visited us today would tell us that it is necessary to verify that today's event means that Slovenia no longer meets the relevant democratic standards. This is what they said today about Croatia, Bosnia, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia. These countries must ensure the establishment of independent, independent anti-corruption commissions as key conditions for membership. That is why what you will do today is a step forward in creating the conditions for corruption and a step back in democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will vote against this law, which abolishes an important institution, not the only one, but one of the institutions that should fight corruption. Everything has already been said, and it has also been said that this government and this national assembly will have to establish a new body in time because this is required by international conventions and rules and regulations. It is important that this Commission be abolished, because otherwise it was not possible to get rid of the President of this Commission, because it is not in the domain of appointing the government or proposing and withdrawing the government and consequently Parliament. As far as everything else is concerned, it is actually more of a matter of regret. Indeed, all this burning anti-corruption rhetoric, which has accompanied the reasons for the termination of this commission, will not be able to cover up the bad news with which many will press the button for. At the same time, I would also say that we have heard so much about the fraud, theft, bribery in the past ten, twelve years, when all of you, together with the LDS, have participated in this authority in one way or another during certain periods, and I wonder where, now, how is it that all this matter, all that has been stolen, as you say, has been mutilated, defiled, repeated, that what has somehow landed in the hands of the so-called right tycoons. How did they steal the lions, but the wealth came to the right. And this is a very interesting question, who and how in Slovenia has been enriched by what and how and what these rules and principles were and who is etc. There will be much more to be said about the motivations for moving forward and back to proposers of this law and their dishonesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you. I will not support this law because neither the proponents nor the government nor the coalition MPs have convinced me that the law we have in the third vote is a suitable way to deal with corruption. The talk was that the current corruption commission was a toothless tiger. What we're getting now will not even be a toothless kitten. Otherwise, it seems to me that this law will be the same as in factories where they have to take care of a closed waste water treatment system. And since some people in this National Assembly love animals so much, let me put it another way, this law is like that dog that hunts his tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support the proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function by virtue of the fact that it is those who advocate this law that have convinced me not to support it. The reasons are as follows. If the law in force governing the anti-corruption commission is not good, it could be rectified with little good will in smaller parts. But since it is not the essence of inappropriate law, the point is that colleagues have just admitted that it is necessary to abolish the President of the Commission and, of course, also the institution, I think that this is not a good way and is unacceptable. Another was an interesting explanation that we wanted to get as close as possible to the Romanian regime. An interesting matter and an interesting tendency to approach the regime, the way Romania has. We're moving in a strange direction. We are talking about the law, the incompatibilities, and at the same time we are talking about the fact that we want to have an arrangement now that will not control the officials of the congregations, and certainly not you Members, because the way in which this committee controls itself will be such that we certainly do not want to over-supervise ourselves. That's why I won't support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Techon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. So I also think that this law is mainly due to the fact that some of the government, from the highest tops of the government, settle an account with the President of the Commission. I must say, we see some contradiction in this act. Indeed, by adopting this law, you are returning matters to the regime that was in force when all these things you say were happening when Elan, the SIB, and I do not know what you listed, was a parliamentary commission that you are now reintroducing. Then, of course, most of Kosovo accepted the commission as a neutral commission, and this came to work at some point like this ruling coalition. Now that it's a ruling coalition, it's no longer stealing, it's okay because we have this Kosovo commission. But you're not happy with her and you're saying it's wrong and you need to get back to the time when it was stolen. Otherwise, I can't understand this matter. Because you're giving back the arrangements when the parliamentary commission was overseeing the whole thing. Now maybe you're more honest than God, and you've been given this, and it's not going to happen. I doubt that, but empirically speaking, that's exactly how it is. Now everything was fine because you were in power and because Kos controlled it because Kos was not willing by some, it had to be abolished, the result would be that we would return to the old state when it was stolen. I certainly congratulate you, along with the proponents, with the well-known anti-corruption fighters, with the SNS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. It's probably no secret that I'm not going to support this marriage, but I have to say it in order. I will not support it because it is a very poor compensation for the anti-corruption law, which includes its system of control and prevention of corruption of the entire sphere of public workers, public servants and officials, while the law on non-compatibility of functions covers only officials. This means that corruption, which is widespread if widespread, not only involves officials, but a far-reaching range of possible jobs, can be said to be threatened in the sense that workers working in individual jobs are at risk because they can be offered bribes, one way or another. And I think it is insufferable that this coalition, which claimed to fight corruption, is the only and main reason that power, people in power until 2004, is that they have been completely corrupt, but now that they have come to power they are as clean as washing them with washing powder and therefore they do not need to have control. I think if you don't, control at least those who don't belong to your branch and that's why we can get quality control. The Parliamentary Commission will not do this, so of course I am against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	I hope that today's vote, respected colleagues and colleagues, will end the farce that we have witnessed in this national assembly in recent months and that it will be broader around this issue when we talk about everything that is not a problem, instead of addressing the problem at source. I may not yet know how brilliant a law we write, and I do not know what solution we will put into it if we do not prevent these acts from coming out, we will do nothing, and that means adopting appropriate legislation that lays down such or similar excrements. I don't know what you're afraid of, ladies and gentlemen. Are you afraid of perhaps a commission in which you will have the majority as the opposition? Or are you afraid of perhaps the 9th article, where every professional official, as well as all non-professional mayors and parishioners, must publicly disclose their assets, but you may be afraid of it, but for you this is an unacceptable novelty, which you do not need, since no one will look back and look at the various plots with beautiful views, which have been fairly obtained, etc. But if you're afraid that we're finally going to start a procedure that we should have started a long time ago, then think about how you're going to press the button, I'm definitely going to vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Commissions were usually set up for nothing to happen, we set up a commission and nothing would happen. In this case, it was also likely that a commission called anti-corruption should have made it easier for some, but now there is no more corruption in that country. In general, this commission collected data that all detection and prosecution authorities actually have and the essence of fighting corruption and illegality is that the police, criminals, prosecutors and courts are acting, of course, that after someone has been punished maybe even to wash his conscience again, we have punished him, and eventually someone has even pardoned him. We haven't achieved anything with this. In fact, this commission was its own purpose, and it has made quite a mess where it is not really necessary. The municipal councillors were terrified and stepped out of the municipal councils because businessmen, craftsmen, privateists were in some way characterized without having a disputed business with the municipalities in which the municipal councils were sitting. It has caused a lot of confusion and I think that the National Assembly can simply think up what this Commission has done or has not done and that, above all, the authorities that I hope that the media will also be able to discover what was essentially the main purpose of this Commission. The Commission is not required, and I will therefore vote in favour of abolishing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will support the proposed law, because I believe that this law is about a more transparent content, namely, a transparent content relating to the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, a more transparent content relating to the acceptance of the gifts of officials associated with their activities, as well as because it is about replacing the current politically dependent commission - depending on one part of the policy, but probably independent of just one part of the policy - so this commission, which is dependent, replaces itself with a parliamentary commission, which, as a whole, is certainly significantly more independent of any policy, of all the policies represented in this national assembly. Given that there have also been words that have stressed that the current parliamentary commission will continue to work under the new law with powers, let me say that this is a new parliamentary commission that will not assume the competence of the parliamentary commission so far, but will have its powers as enshrined in this law. And those who substitute for it should read the law so that they can understand that fact for themselves. There is, of course, no reason to doubt the positive message of this law and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against the adoption of this law. It is impossible to agree to fight corruption as long as you are in opposition. I'm sure the commission would only strengthen the fight against corruption if it stayed. We are not afraid of a parliamentary commission that would do this, but we wanted an independent commission besides this commission, in addition to this parliamentary commission, as I said. I also find that in our local community we have courageous saints, and it seems that we are also completely uncorrupted, because no one has given up on us. And the practice of replacing the president by shutting down the commission is certainly not good. Today I have heard quite a few comments on the President of the State, and I am quite afraid that you will decide that he too should be replaced. And if you take a similar path and similar methods, it can end badly. In this debate, I have also heard that the reds have stolen everything. And when you were talking about cats, about toothless tigers, let me just say that a piece is a really cute black bird, just with a yellow beak. You're going to continue with the blacks now, so they're black in turn?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	I'm sorry. My performance, which I was planning earlier, is a deep thought from the speaker in front of me, and I'm a little shaken up. So, I'm sorry if I'm not exactly going to be in the context of all this, but let me try. It has been said that when we destroy or cause the Commission to cease, we will also approach the preventive element in the fight against corruption. But you know, on the other hand, at least to think about whether it's not a more harmful prevention, a prevention that just promises to have an effect, and in fact, this effect, and we all know it, can't possibly happen. Or is it not more harmful for humans and, of course, officials to rely on something that we know cannot come to? Part one. In the second part, I would just like to point out also the interestingness, at least in my opinion that today you are opposed to a bill that will have positive consequences, all those Members who are ahead of the year and who have even said something about the absence of corruption in our country. Earlier, there was a talk about the debate, about the extraordinary session on money laundering and corruption, but let me remind you that a year ago you were on the same list and the liberal democracy of social Democrats on the big bell that there was no corruption in this country at all. And allow me to take a look at or touch the observations of Member Purchasing about animal lovers. Thank you to all those 61st Members and Members of Parliament who have signed me up for sobriety to call the Mayor of Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! If memory does not deceive me, I apologize in advance; colleague Jelinčič said at a meeting before the elections in 2000: "You love the present power, you have already stolen everything. The new ones will start from the beginning." It seems that these premonitions by Comrade Jelinčič, of course with his assistant, have come true. In this context, of course, this law and the abolition of the anti-corruption commission also belong, and I will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dear Members! We are already used to trying to take over all the institutions. First, they took the prosecution, where they called the so-called independent Mrs Barbara Brezigar, their non-political candidate for the entire election. Then they took over the police, then they took over the media, public broadcasting, and a whole range of other institutions, including administrations, businesses, into the supervisory boards, you appointed again so-called independent political and compatible supervisors, who oversee this new authority, so that I am not surprised that you decided to abolish the independent independent anti-corruption commission. This bothers you and the fact is, you're trying to take over the institution. If you can't take it, you can't take it. And Kosa, you know, did not bring the bird flu, but the fear of a new ruling government before he sniffs around Slovenia about all the irregularities and customerism that is taking place in this country. Of course, such a law, which abolishes an independent anti-corruption commission, cannot be supported and I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their voice on their behalf? Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. As the leader of the parliamentary group, I did not stop by to save time, but because then almost everyone wanted to, I say that I share the belief of my colleagues that we will not support it, and in this sense I want to tell everyone who has talked about this coalition that they are doing us wrong. We do not want to support this law because it has not experienced the necessary improvements, even though we have tried to support all the amendments in order to do so because it is not, I have announced earlier that we will not support this and that is our current decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bevka. I remember you cheating, that's normal, but it's really nice for someone who doesn't have a memory, because every five minutes, he finds out something new.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	Mr. Friend, how will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	That's what you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 73 Members present and 45 votes against 26. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 27th item of the agenda - to consider the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the second paragraph of paragraph 187 and the second paragraph of Article 188 of the Environmental Protection Act is adopted. First on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The LDS Group has not actively participated in this debate and I would therefore like to explain the position of the Group of Members. The LDS Club will vote against the decision to adopt this mandatory interpretation of the Environmental Protection Act. There's no doubt about it. Such an authentic explanation cannot be accepted, is illegal and is unconstitutional. As a result, she will have many lawsuits, confusion and chaos, and this is bad. It simply cannot be accepted because something that is not in law or otherwise regulated by law cannot be corrected or regulated by a compulsory interpretation, but simply by a change of law, which is also an unequivocal position of the legislative and legal service. Of course, we think, at least personally, that there are not well-known reasons, we could discuss why the compulsory public service, the chimney industry, has been transferred to the country and has become a state economic service. There are other solutions, at least in my opinion. It is also unclear why, when this was done, they so strongly protected the rights of the current operators, perhaps in my view it would make sense to protect less. All of this can be discussed, of course it is possible to adopt appropriate different marriage solutions, but this can be arranged, as I said, only by law. Today, this mandatory interpretation will lead to chaos and this mandatory interpretation can also lead to the degradation of this public service, the result of which, of course, may be reduced and reduced and less quality control of combustion plants and smaller combustion plants. CO2, CO sorry, not CO2, carbon monoxide mori. Today, 16 young people died in a Spanish ski cabin, and two people in Slovenia died a year ago as a result of carbon monoxide poisoning. It's not a banal thing. The issue is far from banal and the issue is far more important than the prestigious fights of the various chimney chambers, new and old entrepreneurs, trained and qualified chimneys, and should indeed do so unless the Ministry is otherwise able to do so through a new legal or additional legal regime. Therefore, the LDS Club cannot accept this mandatory interpretation and will therefore vote against the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you. Allow one explanation to make the matter clear. We have three votes on the authentic explanation. We will first vote on the Committee's decision, then on the amendment of this Committee, and lastly we will vote on the authentic interpretation in full. We are now in the stage of the first vote. It's about the joint of your mother's working body. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. At the time of our introductory presentation until now, we have sought an opinion in the Slovenian National Party on the authenticity or non-authenticity of this interpretation. We have received assurances, of course, from qualified people, that the authentic interpretation of the second paragraphs of paragraphs 187 and 188 means the establishment of additional criteria and therefore can only be incorporated into the amendment of the law, and not in any way through an authentic explanation. Secondly, we have received an expert opinion that this is an intervention in the rights already acquired and therefore a violation of the constitutional principle. Of course, we respect such legal guarantees in the Slovenian National Party and will therefore vote in full against the decision and later against the authentic interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will vote against all three proposals, both the Committee's decision and the amendment, although the amendment is in fact only more of an editorial correction and it is therefore unusual to vote on this at all, as well as an authentic explanation that I will be consistent. We believe and reiterate that the authentic interpretation cannot replace the amendment of the law that is offered to the National Assembly, offered in deciding on an illegal proposal that, as a national assembly, we will very soon be able to get a slap on the wrist by the Constitutional Court, which will judge that we have exceeded the limits of authentic interpretation, and I think that we will then ask ourselves why we did not listen to the votes that we have already warned on the committee itself, not only the legislative and legal service, but also individual members of the Committee on the Environment and Space, not to go beyond what is permitted by the authentic interpretation. The amendment of the law or the new law, as we have heard today, which will be in line with the European Energy Security Directive, is certainly a quick solution, even after an emergency procedure, given that it is the interests of the country, because it is the safety of lives and property of people, because it is a matter of reducing air pollution, preventing fires, preventing the population from being poisoned by emissions of toxic gases in the event of incomplete combustion in poorly supplied and maintained combustion plants. So we believe that it is imperative to reconsider before pressing the button for such an authentic explanation, more clearly, it would be better if the national assembly with a negative vote, by rejecting this authentic explanation, orders the government to prepare and offer us a change of law after a rapid procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? In your personal name? Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. That's what I'm gonna say. I'm not going to think about anything now, in fact, I've had a year to think and watch what happened to this poor award of the so-called first concessions. I'm telling you the truth, there's a lot of irregularities. I've told you before that you can't handle a chimney service like this. If today we do not accept this authentic interpretation, which is nothing but an interpretation of the existing law, it does not bring anything new, just what is normally written in the law and the law states: "A valid concession contract or other valid contract". Yes, that's what these other contracts are. Earlier, in its interpretation, the Law on Economic Public Services, of course, provides in that 36th article for a public service such as a chimney service, or for a municipal decision to do so. If there is a call for tender in the municipal decree, there must be a call for tender, the mayor cannot sign a contract with someone without a call for tender, although there are five other contractors who did not wish to do the same service in the same municipality. That's unfair. It's really unfair to those people. Such a contract is not, in essence, valid, even though it is, in a bonding sense, and for that, anyone who thinks that anything has been deprived or withdrawn of it will still be able to appeal to the court and will meet with the mayor who has signed such contracts there. That is why, of course, I will support this authentic explanation, which really does not bring anything new, but only explains what everyone should know and do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the decision of the parent working body. There are 73 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 28. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on to the text of the authentic explanation. We will first decide on the amendment of the Committee on the Environment and the space for a proposal for an authentic interpretation text. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 24. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the amendment to the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation in its entirety. Mr. Stabe, on behalf of the delegation? [[No, in his own.]] First of all, does anyone want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Stab, in your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I'll support an authentic explanation. This is just a legal finesse that solves the prevailing situation that this government has taken over from the previous government. I expect, however, that the Ministry will work towards liberalising the market for the provision of chimney services, in a way that will not require, as is now the case with companies, as well as the owners of the facilities to choose or have a chosen provider of this service. Why not choose the providers of these services on the market as for any other similar service? I expect that the matter will be liberalised in such a way that this will not be a compulsory public economic service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you. Anyone else in their own name? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on an authentic explanation in full. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28]] I find that the authentic explanation is fully accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the instrument referred to in paragraph 3 of paragraph 3. ARTICLE OF THE AGREEMENT ON INTERMEDIATE LEGAL AID BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, SIGNED 25 June 2003 in Washington. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 5. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the instrument referred to in the second paragraph 3. ARTICLE OF THE AGREEMENT ON EXPENDITURE BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, SIGNED 25 JUNE 2003 ON THE APPLICATION OF THE CONVENTION ON THE EVALUATION OF THE KINGDOM OF SERBIA AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Signed on 25. October 1901. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 4. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. At the end of the day - on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of acts of sacred postage. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 33. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the European Institute of Forests. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 34. Agenda item - On defence of the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on response preparedness and cooperation in events of non-hazardous and harmful substance 2000. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONFIRMATION OF THE WORKING TEXTS OF THE LEGISLATION. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Road Safety Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 60 voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the value added tax law is confirmed. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the tax procedure law is confirmed. I vote. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the Income Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 of whom voted against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the Tax Law on paid wages is confirmed. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 of whom voted against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the Law on corporate tax is confirmed. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Do you have an explanation for the voice? After the vote. Vote explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u178	Of course, I do not know the law on corporate tax, but I know the law on the income of legal persons, so I cannot vote on the purified text of the law because it has the wrong title.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-10-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u179	Once again, the decision reads: The official text of the law on corporate tax shall be confirmed. I'm asking the law enforcement department to check it out. And we're going to the 7th. I am adjourning the vote on the sixth decision and moving on to the seventh decision. In the meantime, I'm asking the law enforcement office to study the note. We are therefore moving on to a proposal for a decision: The official text of the law on research and development activities is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Local Elections Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. The vote is under way. 61 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the General Administrative Procedure Act is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 57 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the law on the permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. 62 Members and Members were present and 60 voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I am breaking this point and waiting for an explanation of the legal service. We're moving to 36. Period of the day, it's on casually loving matters. The Council of Justice submitted three proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office at the courts of the District Courts at the District Court in Kamnik and Brežica. The proposals were considered by the Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Helena Mejač to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kamnik. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Milena Novak to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Brežice. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Barbara Kodela Kolar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kamnik. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We return to the 35th item of the agenda, on a proposal for a decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Law on corporate tax. Given that the issue has not been clarified, I propose that this point or this decision be taken at one of the following meetings. I am therefore putting to the vote a proposal that I have just said that we are deciding on this decision at one of the next meetings. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice weekend!
