ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that today's meeting will not be attended by the following Members: Ivan Grill by 1:00 p.m., Drago Koren by 5 p.m., Dušan Kumer, Alojz Posedel, Cyril Testen by 12 noon and Milenko Ziherl by 12 noon. And we're moving on to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS FOR THE RELEVANT REMEMBER REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS FOR THE YEAR 2005. I would like to inform you that we have an estimated 5 hours and 10 minutes for this point. The 11th regular annual report was presented by the Ombudsman for consideration by the Assembly, which, of course, I welcome at the same time as his colleagues. That is why I also give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mr Matjaž Hanžk, to supplement the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Good afternoon. Dear Members, honourable Members, honourable President! This eleventh report is the last report that I will be defending in the National Assembly, as my term of office expires more than two months. I know it'll be a relief for some, maybe not for some. Same for me. On the one hand, I remember the past meetings with joy, on the other hand, not. Also one of today's deputies is here for the last time, the other who has not been confirmed by the mandate is currently abroad, as the Council of Europe is doing professional work on the supervision of prisons, work for which is one of the biggest experts in Europe, but unfortunately will no longer be able to perform in Slovenia. In particular, I would like to thank you for the support I have received from you in the past. You supported my proposal for the Child Rights Unit and the Discrimination Unit. Thank you. Employees in these two departments do well, as everyone in the Guardian does well. Their work also showed that decisions on more systematic work in this area were needed. In recent years, the Children's Rights Department has highlighted several of the problems faced by children and has also conducted special thematic conferences, such as domestic violence and advocacy. Also a discriminatory section, including 15 educational seminars funded by the European Union. For these decisions, Slovenian citizens will be most grateful. The report that's before you, just for a little while, because I believe you've all read it. First, I must commend the Government, which has prepared a comprehensive response report. I think it's the most comprehensive yet. In doing so, we can find that a large majority of the Ombudsman's comments have been accepted and responded to by solving the problem or by proposing a solution when the problem is more extensive or by reasoning why he does not agree with the Ombudsman. It's the right way, and that's how we solved most of the problems. Most institutions also show a positive attitude towards the Ombudsman's institution, but unfortunately there are also exceptions that will need to be addressed in the future. I will not list the structure of the individual areas of the infringement, which has remained largely the same as in previous years. In particular, I would like to mention only the oldest problems with the beard that have already drawn to infinity, this is the relationship to the Constitutional Court, which shows a bad attitude towards the rule of law. The number of pending decisions doubled in 2005 with two problems; deleted and mental health. If we miss a decade's notice of the Ombudsman's necessity to regulate the status deleted, there should be a strong enough argument for this to alert international institutions, such as the Commissioner for Human Rights at the Council of Europe and the ECRI - the European Commission against racism and intolerance. But it shows that Slovenian policy is also immune to these opinions, as the problem has been lingering for too long, has not been resolved by any government, nor does the current one show a willingness to respect the legality resulting from the Constitutional Court's decision. Even the Law on Mental Health, despite long promises, is still waiting for policies that will have sufficient hearing for people with mental health problems. Finally, let me mention the attitude towards all sorts of smaller ones, which are often more of a means to raise political points than a group of people who can bring new quality into our lives. We need to be more active here, too. Thank you very much and welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you. The 11th regular year of the report was considered by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent labour force. I'm asking the president of the commission, mag. Majdo Potrato to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Respected from the Office of the Ombudsman, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members! At its 18th meeting, on 11 October 2005, the Commission considered the 11th annual report of the Ombudsman for 2005 submitted by the Ombudsman to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 43 of the Law on Human Rights. From now on, all I'm gonna talk about is the report. The report was published on 17 July 2006 in Rapporteur of the National Assembly No 77. For consideration at the meeting, the members of the Commission also received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the report and information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly adopted at the time of consideration of the 10th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2004. Opinion and report of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and opinion and proposal of the Committee on Health of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and members of the Commission also received working material, a draft proposal for recommendations prepared by the Commission’s expert service and a proposal for two recommendations proposed by a member of the Maja Širc Commission. In a brief additional explanation, the Ombudsman said that he was well received by the executive branch, and he was particularly pleased to be assured by the Prime Minister that the Government's report would need a better work tool, including a number of human rights violations identified in 2005, had already been resolved before this report was considered. Nevertheless, some human rights violations that have lingered for a long time still do not show that they will soon be properly regulated. He mentioned a lack of respect for the Constitutional Court's decisions, the still unregulated status of deleted persons, an unreasonable trial, a lack of due process of amending laws and a lack of consistency between inspection services. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the Government had carefully examined the Ombudsman's report. The Government notes that the type of infringement in the report stems from the past and the type of infringements detected in 2000 has already been resolved in this year. The government considers that Slovenia has a high level of human rights and legal certainty. In addition, representatives of individual ministries presented activities related to national and ethnic minorities, asylum seekers, police procedures, procedures for admission to citizenship, residence permits, deleted status arrangements, denationalisation and cooperation with civil society. The President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia said that the Ombudsman's report, as well as the general assessment of the individual cases described, had been carefully examined and all the judges were briefed on their publication in the internal press. It agrees that judicial backlogs are a major problem and is pleased that the number of judicial backlog initiatives has decreased. In the debate, the members and members of the Commission considered that the report was better prepared than in previous years. In particular, they expressed their satisfaction that the Government had responded to the Ombudsman’s report clearly, unequivocally, and primarily by actions. However, the Ombudsman’s report lacked a description and a response of the Ombudsman’s response to some media reverberations of hate speech. The ethics of public words and the related frequent instances of hate speech directed against different groups are increasingly common. Response to such phenomena is not appropriate. Although the human rights situation in Slovenia is improving, standards already achieved in some areas are not improving, for example in the area of asylum. At the conclusion of the meeting, the Ombudsman provided explanations and answers to questions raised by members and members in the debate. In the discussion on the draft recommendations, in which representatives of the Government also participated, 12 recommendations were not supported; they are all recorded in the report, so I will not mention them. The members and members of the Commission agreed unanimously to include the recommendations of the Committee of the National Health Council in the proposal for recommendations to be proposed by the Commission for adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Commission adopted, for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, a proposal for recommendations proposed under Articles 272 and 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the consideration and acceptance of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Respectable Ombudsman, representatives of the Ombudsman's Office, Members and Members of Parliament! The government is pleased to see the Ombudsman's assessment that the Government has prepared the most comprehensive response report to the Ombudsman's findings so far. The government understands the Ombudsman's report as an instrument, which leads to a process of continuous improvement in the field of human rights protection. Although the situation in the field of human rights in Slovenia can be assessed as good. This also shows international comparisons, a recent study published, a comparative study in Economist magazine shows that the situation in the field of human rights in Slovenia is relatively good. This study ranks us among the 28 true democracies, as they have called it, and especially the high score Slovenia received for the functioning of the electoral process and pluralism and for the area of civil liberties. Of course, the situation in the area of rights and freedoms is never such that they can be fully satisfied with it. There is always room for manoeuvre for improvement and, as it is said, the Government sees the Ombudsman's report as an instrument for improving things in different areas. The Ombudsman also points out in the 2005 report that the human rights situation is not optimal. Most of the problems the guardian talks about have a long beard, appear in reports virtually every year, drag on over the years. The government is systematically working to improve the situation in these areas. Progress has already been seen in some areas; others are moving a little slower. As a key problem or the biggest human rights problem, we see a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time frame, i.e. judicial backlog. In 2005, there was a slight decrease in the number of backlogs, but the situation is still catastrophic. It is still true that many people have been denied the right for so long that they can almost say that this right is denied, because, you know, the right has been suspended almost as much as it has been denied. To this end or for this reason, the Government has adopted a programme for the elimination of judicial arrears, which is systematically and strategically addressing this problem. We are convinced that the solution to the problem of judicial backlogs needs to be found in three key projects or programmes. Firstly, in the additional investment in the employment of judges and judicial staff, in the resolution of spatial issues in the courts and in the information of the judiciary, in the systematic simplification of proceedings before the courts and in the search for internal reserves in the judiciary. I think it is right that all three branches of government here admit that there is a room for manoeuvre in all three branches of government to improve the functioning of the courts. The executive and legislative branches of the authorities can therefore do their part by providing additional resources necessary to address this problem. We regret only that it was not accepted that it did not come across support for the idea of temporary employment of judges to solve this problem, the idea of project judges. Of course, the executive and legislative branches can also do their part in simplifying procedures that certainly help reduce judicial backlogs. However, the judiciary must recognise its internal reserves. There's still a lot of these reserves. I must say that in the case of judges' salaries, the Government will insist on stimulating payment if only the Constitutional Court allows it; and it is difficult for me to imagine that the Constitutional Court would find that payment after work is unconstitutional. Such a method of payment is stimulating and fair and, of course, no harm to money, tax money for the payment of good work, quality and also in the quantitative sense of good work in courts. It would be a shame to throw him into some black hole in a smoothie. Other problems may be addressed, or we will touch them further, along with a team of representatives from different ministries. We will respond to questions that will be raised. Let me respond immediately to the problem of the so - called deleted in this few seconds that I have left. I would like to point out that the Government has drawn up a proposal for a constitutional law that has shown that we are ready to solve this problem and to correct injustices in specific cases where and when they have arisen. But we do not agree with the general and flat-rate findings of thousands of injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. I hate to break it to every speaker who's running out of time, but these are the rules of the game that were adopted in the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the parliamentary groups, with Ambassador Marjetka Uhan to present the views of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ombudsman, Mr Hanžek, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. Nicely greeted! The 11th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2005 is before us on a regular basis. We examined the report in the New Slovenia Group of Members, discussed the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, where the Ombudsman also explained that the situation of human rights violations was improving and that a number of violations that had been identified in the previous year had already been resolved, and he was also pleased to commend the Government and the Government for its response to the Eleventh Annual Report. The Court’s lags are a constant in the reports, explained at the meeting by the Government’s legislative activities. Both the Government and the National Assembly shall pay particular attention to the area of justice, in particular with regard to the abolition of judicial backlogs, which give rise to a violation of the rights of trial within a reasonable period of time. The area of deleted has not yet been regulated and the Government representative stressed that the Government is aware that this area needs to be regulated and that a majority in the National Assembly is also needed to amend the Constitutional Charter. In New Slovenia, we have reviewed this year's report, and we are pleased that the comments we made last year have been taken into account to some extent, especially with regard to hate speech on the Internet and violence in schools. In online chat rooms, there is often an expression of intolerance and humiliation towards believers or other thinkers, and we believe that it is right that the state protects citizens and citizens in this area too. With regard to the problem of school violence, we have seen progress in the report, but according to our assessment, there is still a lack of the aspect that we have already highlighted, and this is a violation of the rights of teachers and employees in schools. The situation in schools from this point of view is not always rosy, even during this year physical attacks on teachers and even on the principal took place. We often see the Ombudsman putting himself on one side, but he forgets the rights of others, even most of them, only the Ambrus cases, even though this is the topic of the last month, but unfortunately it is not in the report. The Ombudsman will say that this report is for 2005, but we note that this problem is not from 2006, the locals have written to us that they have called the Ombudsman much earlier, but he did not want to respond to their invitation or letters. In New Slovenia, we believe that the Ombudsman's reports are deepening and improving, but we miss an approach that would explore and identify the causes of the problem faced by the Ombudsman and also show more possibilities for a solution. The Ombudsman points out the violence in the family, which we condemn in Novi Slovenija as any violence. We would like to stress, however, that we are missing the child's rights as regards the child's right to family. While the Ombudsman addresses the issue of respect for children's rights and advocacy for their best comprehensive environment, which helps children both economically and psychologically. However, the Ombudsman leaves out the family and the right to a family, which is certainly the most healthy environment for the normal and balanced development of the child. We believe that it would be worth the Ombudsman's further part not only to deal with matters brought by citizens, but also with matters which the Ombudsman finds either from a public context or from a problem which he encounters and deals with in accordance with his or her competences. We would also mention that the report does not cover the protection of an individual in relation to municipal authority, and we also lack the dimension of membership in the European Union and in this regard what disturbs citizens in the field of the European Union, which has in fact become our home framework; and this is also our initiative for the next reports of the Ombudsman. In New Slovenia, we will support or adopt the report, as well as the Commission's recommendations on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities that we have adopted and imposed on the Government and other state authorities to lead the policy towards as little human rights violations as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be submitted by Member Jakob Presečnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Ombudsman with colleagues, distinguished ministers and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman is an important institution established by the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides in Article 159 for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to public authorities, local self-government bodies and public authorities to be established by law by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman’s role is therefore clearly separated by the Constitution and more specifically by the Law on the Ombudsman. The role of the Ombudsman is important and its functioning, especially its scope and intensity, depends largely on each individual appointed as the Ombudsman. Above all, it is important that the Ombudsman's work is geared towards addressing the problems most common in individual areas of action. Of course, today's debate is not about the Ombudsman, but about the content, problems, problems the Ombudsman is most likely to face in his work, or the most up to date in 2005, to which the report is addressed. The general conclusion is that the infringements to which the Ombudsman is warned do not change significantly from year to year. In particular, it should be pointed out when this report is considered that it refers, of course, to the situation by the end of 2005, and that several steps have been taken in some areas this year to improve the situation. In 2005, one of the main systemic problems was still the trial within a reasonable time frame. This is certainly an important right on the part of our citizens, which, in particular, is often violated by judicial failures. I think we are all well aware of the consequences of violating the right to a trial within a reasonable time. In addition to the often irreparable consequences for an individual, it also reduces the general confidence of citizens in the justice system and also in the rule of law. This year, we have adopted a series of laws aimed at reducing judicial backlogs, particularly in the field of judicial proceedings, alternative dispute resolution and the organisation of courts. As compared to previous years, judicial backlogs began to decline statistically in 2005. However, since this is a complex problem, despite many measures it is not possible to expect immediate effect or rapid improvement in the situation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that in a few years' time the judicial backlogs will no longer be as pressing a question as they have been in recent years. The Ombudsman also points out in his report that certain decisions of the Constitutional Court have not been taken into account. The role of the Constitutional Court is clear and I think it is our shared responsibility to fully respect its decisions. Otherwise, the Constitutional Court will be subordinated to politics, which is very dangerous from the point of view of the rule of law. On the other hand, such action relativises the constitutionally guaranteed role of the Constitutional Court and does not constitute an exemplary practice for citizens. Regarding the Ombudsman's impatience, he points out that this is still a problem in Slovenia. In particular, this issue has become sensitive in recent events concerning the Romani family Strojan. This particular issue is, of course, not the substance of the report under consideration, but directly related to it, so I would like to say a few words about it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the right way to solve the complications related to members of the Strojan family is in the real provision of state and municipal authorities, that laws will apply equally to all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian People's Party, the Group of Members, feels that this is not the case, certainly one of the reasons for the strong responses of locals in many environments. Since we do not want impatient reactions, we must ensure equal treatment for all citizens. In doing so, I also express my conviction that we Slovenians have never been and are not an impatient nation today. It must be made very clear that Roma in some parts of Slovenia are not ready to accept the Strojan honey family. So we cannot talk about intolerance towards Roma in general, but we need a concrete case, to be seen as a concrete case, not as an intolerance to Roma in general. The Ombudsman also draws attention to free legal aid. We must stress that in the parliamentary group we find that we are listening to these issues in Slovenia, as shown by the provision of free legal aid on an ever-increasing scale. The question of religious freedom, to which the Ombudsman also points, has been dealt with in our view in this year with the adoption of the law. Among other things, I would like to draw particular attention to the problem of the work of inspection services. We agree with the guardian that the main problem is the lack of coordination of work between different inspections. As a result, their effectiveness is not ensured, resulting in many negative consequences. We could also talk here about the resulting mistrust in the country and its authorities. In our view, the issue of inspection will need to be more clearly regulated, only clearly defined powers will allow the work of the inspection services to serve their purpose. Special areas, which are also very problematic, are labour relations. In the private sector, there are still many violations, although the legislation is clear, each of us knows that women in particular are in a discriminatory situation, although it is forbidden for a woman to be unemployed or dismissed for personal reasons, such as the family situation or the birth of a child, this is still happening. Often, employers do not employ women if they are aware of their intention after the birth of a child or even require them to sign a blank termination before the conclusion of the employment contract, which the employer uses if he finds out that the woman has become pregnant. In this area, there is a great deal of responsibility in particular in the inspection services. With strong and rigorous supervision, we expect that the number of violations in these areas will be reduced. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we find that the situation in certain areas is still being regulated and improved. Several recommendations were adopted on the Home Committee, which will also be supported by the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, the Ombudsman with both deputies and, of course, the Government or ministers and their associates and coworkers! This year's evaluation in the 11th report of the Ombudsman does not differ significantly from that of the past. At least on our part, we commend the inclusion of children and their rights in the framework of the report. Most of the matters that the Ombudsman has identified as most pressing in the 11th report are also drawn from past years. We have also addressed the report in the Slovenian National Party in view of the increasing comments and discontent among people over the work of the Ombudsman. Article 20 of the Law on the Ombudsman, which states that the Ombudsman cannot be called to account for opinions or proposals he has made in the performance of his office, is used by the existing Ombudsman to prevent hate speech or to limit the spread of intolerance by others. And in this part, there is an important criticism of the work of the Ombudsman, who should be the first of the first in our country to respect all people who treat each individual with respect and not just the target groups of his choice. Throughout the report, Roma and deleted are constantly appearing. As a result of the enthusiasm of the representatives of these two groups, the current Ombudsman allows himself in public to mark the Ambrus population as, I quote, "a vengeful and murderous crowd", the end of the quote. Your Honor! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, this is a typical spread of intolerance, and such impatient absences of the Ombudsman cannot, indeed, have no positive impact, not in the short term or in the long term, on the reduction of intolerance in our society, but can have an even greater opposite effect. These are basic principles of psychology, so you won't say I'm impatient. These are the facts. For the APA press agency, the Ombudsman compared the Slovenian authorities with Heather. As early as 2003, he compared Slovenia with Nazi Germany, and then last year, in 2005, he repeated the comparison when asked by a journalist what he felt about the so-called paedophile registry that we proposed in the Slovenian National Party. If I stop on this last topic, we are in the Slovenian National Party, not only in this mandate, active in the field of child protection against all forms of violence. This is what many initiatives are talking about, including in the framework of legislative proposals. The consequences of inappropriate treatment of children are reflected in various areas, and usually have a profound impact on the mental and resulting integral health and life of people. In the world, if I limit myself to Europe only, because it is closer to us, a number of measures have been taken in the direction of prevention and greater effectiveness of child protection. Among these measures is a list of convicted offenders against sexual inviolability and an international network for the exchange of such data. Despite Mr Hanžk's principled opposition to adopting something similar in our country, Slovenia still does not have a legal ban on corporal punishment of children. The practice of courts in cases of sexual violence against children and adolescents is also extremely humiliating. In addition to obvious procedural errors, which our information has repeatedly warned the Ombudsman, there are also examples that I will describe to you in a few words. The Court of First Instance finds that the perpetrator is guilty of abuse of his position by a person who has not been 15 years of age and has been entrusted with education, protection and care. The second-party body contests the judgment by interpreting the so-called case-law, stating that there must be certainty for such a conviction that the perpetrator had the intention to satisfy his sex. Respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, have no importance in the weight of the act, no importance in sacrifice, no importance in the consequences of such an act, it is important whether an adult experiences or has experienced the satisfaction of his or her sex with his or her own child. This is a concrete case in case law. And I ask, where did they get lost in our country of values? And since this is the practice, because the institutions are additionally stigmatising and making victims through their procedures, in the Slovenian National Party we have proposed to strengthen penal policy in all cases where children, adolescents and persons with disabilities are victims of sexual violence in physical and mental development. But Priori was the Ombudsman against the proposal of the Slovenian National Party before he even saw this proposal. Where is the concern for the rights and dignity of people, those who are not of their own volition and the desire of the victim of acts of violence or abuse? In chapter 11 of the report, I will read among the recommendations: The Government should strengthen its control over the exercise of children's rights and explore the possibility of more effective action, particularly in the event of the occurrence of psychological and physical violence, any discrimination, neglect or abuse. In the same breath, the Ombudsman in the introduction of the same report states that we have sufficient legal basis to ensure an adequate legal position. From this place I find and point out that it is not true, my dear guardian, it is not true. In Slovenia we do not have a design so-called Child policy or policy to deal in an integrated way with the field of children. We don't have a legal ban on corporal punishment, we don't have so-called family courts that specialize in working with children. The judges also point to this. And since we do not have a properly regulated area, every effort must also be made to adapt Slovenian legislation to the conventions in the field of children. But allow me, at this point I will say a word or two in favour of the concern of the Slovenian National Party and the fight, which was sometimes also marked as negative. If the Slovenian National Party were not present in this Parliament, today there would be no legal prohibition on education and education for those who have committed a crime against sexual inviolability. There would be no basis for the establishment of an independent child advocate office. The Slovenian National Party and the Government Coalition, on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party, confirmed the amendment at the previous meeting at the time of the 2008 budget and, of course, provided the means that the independent office of children's advocates could be implemented by financial means in 2008. It is not sufficient for me to continue merely to conclude that the Ombudsman only rarely asks for help, this is stated in the report. Why? The Law on the Ombudsman speaks, and I will quote: "Anyone who considers that by means of an act or act of a State authority, an authority of the local community or a holder of a public authority of a violation of human rights or fundamental freedoms, the Ombudsman may be given an initiative to initiate proceedings. All initiatives must be signed or labelled with the personal data of the initiator and contain the circumstances, facts and evidence on which the initiation initiative is based." I believe that such a procedure is too complicated even for a number of adults. Perhaps it is because of the procedure that children rarely ask the Ombudsman for help. The reflection in this direction is still welcome and, of course, refers to the necessity after the establishment of an independent office that will take care of children's rights and that will be accessible to children in an accessible manner. On the 117th page of the report, where it says about when the Ombudsman responds publicly, he says that he does not respond to those things that he has not been warned about or if others do not respond adequately to them. I would like to stress that the law gives the Ombudsman the opportunity, the right to respond to his own fist, gives it. Important areas have been omitted in this part, if I continue. While the Ombudsman notes that in the past year 2005, the number of initiatives in the field of maintenance, non-recoverable livelihoods in the field of fostering activities has increased. The number of complaints or initiatives in the field of reproductive activity has increased. The Deputy Ombudsman for Children's Rights and Social Security, Mr Tone Dolčič, says that, according to the Ombudsman's assessment, the maintenance activity is well organised and even better carried out. It's a little contradictory to hear that. The issue of sexual harassment or sexual violence, as assessed by the Slovenian National Party, is not of sufficient weight in this report. Furthermore, more than 4% of complaints concerning health are covered in the report, which shows more than clearly the need to introduce the Ombudsman. Finally, a number of recommendations in the work materials to be adopted also point to this pressing area. But I fear that many recommendations may be too little or too little to read. Because either they're too binding or they're too general and that's why I'm really afraid, too real. Since time haunts me, because there is something I want to leave for other fellow Members of Parliament, let me just conclude. At first, I mentioned malignment - malignment of those who think or think otherwise. In this context, I will also mention the defamation of Slovenia by Mr Hanžk, the Ombudsman, from the international public. You know, it's subversive and counter-national and it doesn't really help anyone. In his role as Ombudsman for the Austrian newspaper Der Standard, Mr Hanžek even suggested that the European Union freeze bilateral contacts with Slovenia at the highest level. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is true that we are living in a democratic country where human rights should be of fundamental value. But force is a sad situation when only one and the same or the same rights are promoted, while others are beaten and thrown into the basket. Such tolerance promoted by Mr Hanžek with impatient statements is far from desirable and far from desirable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Franz Žnidaršič will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Honourable President, Honourable Lord of the Ombudsman with a Fellow, Honourable Representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, every time we pay attention to the Ombudsman's report, we respond to his warnings. If we look at the realization of human rights in terms of the world situation, we can see that the situation in Slovenia is satisfactory. Of course, from the point of view of the affected citizens, this is not the case, and that is why we must be acceptable to the Ombudsman's warnings that they encourage us to behave differently, more responsibly. In this regard, specific cases of human rights violations or non-compliance are valuable tools to determine where, where and to what extent human rights have been violated, as we can address shortcomings more quickly and effectively. From a rather comprehensive report, we would like to draw the attention of Members of the DeSUS in particular to violations aimed at the older generation, i.e. retired citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, there is concern about the increasing difficulties of individuals in identifying the pension age achieved and the employer’s supervision that they are paying contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance, as there is still no record of paid contributions to pension and disability insurance for each insured person. The relevant Ministry was warned about this. PPIZ has proposed a joint meeting of all competent institutions to resolve this problem. In our group, we certainly support such an initiative and expect these issues to be resolved in due course. It is absurd that an individual must, at the final stage, bear all the consequences of the slowness of such situations and the slowness of judgment and the flawed or unconscionable and rigid legal rules. We need to draw attention to an increasing increase in physical and psychological violence against elderly people, mostly by relatives and acquaintances. They collect their pensions, they intimidate them, they don't leave their homes, they don't allow visits from others, for example, visits to the Social Work Centre at home. In the DeSUS Group, we advocate greater protection for this generation, as today there are no adequate protection mechanisms when the family does not allow entry. We are also reminding again of the problem of ageing societies, as demographic forecasts clearly show that the number of elderly will increase rapidly over the next two decades. Today, over 65 years of age in our country, there are over 300,000. Already in 2020, there are over 400,000 of them, so in our Group of Members we are committed to taking this issue more seriously and more comprehensively. We also believe that there is a need to increase the transparency of data and models for the forecasting of public expenditure on pensions, which are, as they are, often unnecessary concerns. When considering the Ombudsman's report, our group members believe that it is our duty to point out, even though this report does not contain this right now, too few beds in nursing homes, too few opportunities for the education of the elderly, too little additional creative work and employment for the elderly, not enough opportunities for inclusion in social events. To solve these problems, we hope that we will all work together with greater enthusiasm for the older generation to be able to enjoy the best possible autumn of life. We can understand from the Ombudsman's report that his work is diverse, tiring and respectful. Irregularities or violations of human rights can still be seen in too many cases. We believe that, above all, the awareness of individuals about their rights and the rights of others, the education of people on the way to remedy injustices, the ways to prevent violations, and the encouragement of the general public, taking into account the difference underlying the creation of a more stable society, is an indispensable component of the guardian's action, as we agree with his assessment that indifference to the problems of people is still too much and one of the major problems of our society, both for individuals and for the institutions of the country. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the recommendations we will adopt are of paramount importance, but not only are they well-meaning recommendations, which are 27 at the end of the 11th report, but it is important that in the 12th report it is possible to read that the infringement is less than it was in the period following us. In all of this, of course, our parliamentary group rejects the Ombudsman's allegations that he did not do so and that he did not do so in order to avoid human rights violations. For us, the Ombudsman is the one who has the right and duty to warn about violations; for those who are supposed to prevent violations, we have others and we pay others in this country, and therefore for us there are such obvious guardians of insults that he has not earned on the one hand and, on the other hand, rejecting responsibility for violations against someone else and thereby diverting attention. We support the Commission's recommendations on petitions and human rights and equal opportunities and will also be supported by the Group of Members in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you. Member Mirko Zamernik will give the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, a very nice greeting on my behalf as well! As last year was sort of a jubilee report, because it was the tenth, there is some speciality present this year, as this is the last report submitted by the current Ombudsman. At the same time, or at least through our House of Commons, we have taken this matter as an opportunity to reflect on the very institution of the Ombudsman. What citizens and citizens, then Members and Members of Parliament, then the government, then the public sphere wanted to achieve with the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute. I am convinced that at the time the Members wanted to improve the situation in the country and that this was the main purpose of the establishment of the Ombudsman Institute. We are pleased to find that this main objective has been sufficiently achieved. As before with your predecessor and now with your work to a certain extent. In this report, I will try to distance myself from the personal qualifications that some predecessors have done, whether the guardian has earned something or has done something that he has not done and what he should have done, and I will try to distance myself from it. In our Group of Members, it has led to the need to be hard on problems and mild to humans. And that's why I'm not going to judge the work of an individual, but I'm going to commend what's a lot in the report. These are concrete examples of people who have encountered serious problems and only after the intervention of the Ombudsman has the matter improved. One example is that both parents died in a car accident. Then this little girl lived with her old parents, but the Social Work Center found it would be better if this little girl moved in with the foster parents, I think they were uncles and aunts. Severe problems have been caused by this. And after lengthy procedures and interventions by the Ombudsman, the Centre for Social Work, however, issued a decision and pleased the girl and the old parents that she now lives there and in the end, sincerely thanks for this help. Why was I quoting this case, like I said, which isn't lonely? Because with such cases, in some way, the goal was achieved from 15 years ago: to improve things in this country. Unfortunately, there are also things that are not as encouraging as this case, which I have just mentioned, which have already been discussed by colleagues and colleagues before me. Most acutely and most in the lives of ordinary or purely ordinary people, all of us are affected by the conduct of the judiciary. Last year, I talked about this a lot from this pay phone when we received the Ombudsman's report and we tried one small experiment all gathered here, we didn't split into opposition, position, red, black, green, blue, I don't know what else, but we tried to take a little step, but concretely, to make things better. How much this has contributed to the improvement of things, let us let our explorers determine whether they will know or not even now. Now I'm not saying it was exclusive or just this pebble in the mosaic. In this area, or most of all in this area, the Minister has made himself, because of the types of people who face it every day, it is said by procedures in the courts, by a purely specific lawyer who can sometimes take a rather critical look at the conduct of the judiciary, politics and all social events in general, and is rather critical than commendable, he has recently said that the actions of the Minister of Justice and everything that is going on in court proceedings have produced fruit that, despite the fact that lawyers are equal to or even more, and the case is even more, the case is more, which means that the courts have started, at least some, to do better. It is very encouraging, because we know what kind of weeds, what kind of hardships there are on this, as Mr Minister has said, as you have already said, if justice moves, justice is postponed as a right that is not one, or as such, I have not been able to repeat what you said. And that's why all the congratulations you've done to everyone in this area. Now a little bit of criticism on our account. The Ombudsman drew attention to the unacceptable conduct of petitioners at our National Assembly. They mostly do so because they are desperate and then look for opportunities and opportunities at all the addresses, and one of them is for petitions by the Commission. I am surprised that the presentation by the President of the Commission did not respond to this statement by the Ombudsman, who says, quote: "Sorry about the initiative, it was one concrete initiative, confirms our concern about the inconsistencies and inadequacy of the petitioning practice. We believe that we have effectively pointed out at least the need for a comprehensive regulation of the content and manner of exercising the constitutional right to petitions." So when we point our finger at impatience, at the deviation in our society last year, I said that when we point our finger at each other with one, the three turn against us. That is why I strongly agree with this warning from the Ombudsman, where he says that all minority groups are being used as a means to raise political points. Isn't that sad? But usually those who protest most loudly against it do so most loudly with their actions. Very loud and very loud with their finger "look at the President of the Government, look at the Minister, look at the Members, how you do not do your job". What if we look at our own bowl - that's why I highlighted this case. We can point to others, but we don't know what we've done. And to leave some time to my colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased with one of the findings of the Ombudsman, who says, the government has responded to the report clearly, comprehensively and in particular with actions. You know, your hands help, they're more sacred than the mouth that prays. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we will support and support any action that leads to the improvement of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ambassador Majda Širc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, the respected guardian's team, Mr. Hanžek. As this is the last report of the Ombudsman, Mr Matjaž Hanžk, let me say that this report is also very comprehensive, good and that it recalls the symptoms of Slovenian society and we hope, in our group, that the standards established by the Ombudsman's team will continue with the same sensitivity, regardless of the fact that we know that the team will not eat, as at least two co-workers of the current Ombudsman have not received support from your side in continuing their work. Surely we can say that in his mandate the Ombudsman did not act underlyingly, did not act irresponsibly and did not act contrary to the interests of the Slovenian State, but acted in accordance with the legal order, with his conscience and the interests of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. And even because the problem of the Roma is on the front pages of foreign newspapers today, it is not the Ombudsman's fault, as we hear it, nor are those who are supposed to write texts in Slovenia, as the Prime Minister of the Government said. The blame for the unresolved and very problematic situation, for our understanding also the unconstitutional situation in the area of Roma issues, is elsewhere. We support the proposals for recommendations in the Liberal Democracy Group. I will limit myself to the recommendations adopted by the Commission, which are many, almost 30, on the Commission itself. We regret that some of these have not been accepted, so today we are seeing again the possibility of getting support. Some of the proposed measures of these recommendations, which we have before us, will be of particular benefit to the Government at this time, as they also talk about preventing the spread of all forms of intolerance and hatred. Because intolerance to minorities, taking rights into their own hands in the streets and excluding them these days is becoming a rule currently being pushed by Slovenia between those countries where democracy is not understood as the first part of this country; and our society is becoming increasingly closed, not to say even the xenophobic community. Therefore, the recommendation that all competent authorities should ensure consistent respect for human rights and equality before the law in the field of the restriction of personal freedom is worth further attention. In fact, our view is that in recent events concerning the relocation of the Roma family from Ambrus, which is likely to be dealt with in the report of the future guardian or guardian, these rights have not been respected or framed, but only consistently. An important warning to the Government is also a recommendation that warns workers and workers about the deprivation of rights. These rights shall be reinvigorated under cover or excuse of greater economic efficiency. The warnings that have taken place in this account in mass protests recently should be a great reminder to the Government. Given that the government understood them more carefully, given that the Prime Minister of the Trade Unions, who gathered on the streets, somehow warned with a cynical replica that we could wait for a better time, the problem is worrying. The non-systemic corrections regarding the small and short-term, short-term part of the contraction of social transfers, as well as the unequal treatment of asbestos patients, will further increase the scope of work for the future Ombudsman in many ways. The recommendation that the Government ensure the legal regulation of patients' rights to coalition Members as soon as possible, of course, does not create problems. It was accepted. It's working for us. Why? Because we took care of that "as soon as possible" ourselves when we tabled the bill, but you didn't like it because it was ours and it wasn't yours. Let us say that this rejection, which has recently taken place and that this recommendation will somehow fail and that the Government will nevertheless prepare or copy this law. Let me once again say that the recommendations we have before us are good, it is only important that they be heard. Therefore, let me draw attention to some of those recommendations that have not been supported and that we support and appeal to your support today. Within the framework of constitutional rights, we support that solution, this recommendation, which says that the Government should prepare amendments or additions to the relevant legislation by inciting hatred, discord or intolerance based on violations of the principle of equality based on national, racial and religious affiliation, incriminating also the promotion of hatred, discord or intolerance against persons on the basis of their personal circumstances, such as sex, sexual orientation, disability, for example, disability and visual affiliation. This year's assessment of the state of human rights in the country shows, and this report emphasises that the number of complaints in the field of ethics and expressions of intolerance is increasing. The initiatives have doubled in this area. And the Ombudsman specifically mentions expressions of intolerance in a political speech, which is then reflected elsewhere. In the field of children's rights, we particularly appeal to the recommendation that the Government prepare a bill on the prevention of domestic violence as soon as possible and an interdepartmentally coordinated programme to address this problem, or perhaps even a national programme for the prevention of domestic violence, although we believe that the law is more appropriate here. In those days, you have shown support against violence against women, children and families in general. And in order not to remain only in the area of declarant support, there is something that needs to be done. The former government has already written such a law, prepared analyses, merged ministries, proposed measures. It's just that we're running out of time for the final act, but we can take this step now. If we do it, we'll run out of votes, because the inertia here is known. The fact that you didn't support this recommendation on the committee to assume that the government doesn't understand the law as a priority, I can be wrong about it, and if it pleases me. You have the opportunity to tell her that she does not understand this as a priority; for the fists of women and children are difficult, that the bruises are painful, that safe houses are full, and that society where violence is present does not bring joy to life and does not bring relaxed societies is more than clear. We agree and also acknowledge to the Government that a number of steps have already been taken to address shortcomings or gaps in existing legislation. But as it is said, since domestic violence is such a pressing problem, sensitivity to this problem needs to be increased. We would therefore point out once again that representatives of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Interior and the police in that debate felt that the system law for the prevention of domestic violence was necessary in order to comply with the solutions already in place. The amendments or recommendations that came today as additional recommendations, including those made by opposition colleagues, are worth the attention. Let me warn you two. The one who says that the government should arrange for the situation to be settled as soon as possible or to ensure that the situation of the deleted is settled. You yourself know that this recommendation has always been rejected by the Commission, at least when it was written in the sense that the Government should still respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. The problem of the deleted, which is also pointed out by the deleted themselves these days, is for the Slovenian state and the fact that it did not go on after two years, that it was silent after it had so-called a power issue - very bad. It would therefore be upright that this recommendation, which is so mild and accepted, and that reservations - and the deadline should not hurt you in doing so. The recommendation of the Social Democrats that the Government should establish a long-term strategy for Roma inclusion in society is also important. We know that the Government will tell us on this recommendation that this strategy may be covered by a law that has finally been sent through the government procedure these days. However, it may not be possible to compare this with this recommendation. At the same time, we believe that this recommendation also points out that the Government needs not only to establish a long-term strategy for Roma inclusion in society, but that it also needs a short-term strategy for solving specific problems in the area of the Roma family, within which there have been many irregularities, unconstitutionalities and escalating in what we see today not only on the street but also elsewhere. In response to the Government's reply on the Roma issue and the law, which is supposed to solve the issue in some way, I should also point out that, in preparing this law, the Commission also received a complaint from the Roma themselves or their associations that this law was not in line with their representatives or themselves, which is of course our concern. Once again, let me conclude that in the Liberal Democracy we thank you for our work so far and that we accept this recommendation as an important move - not only this but also the previous - towards the sensitivity of Slovenian society to the issue of human rights and violations in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by the Magi. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	Your Honor! In this case, in particular, say goodbye to Mr Matjaž Hanžk, who will say good-bye to this function. In the Social Democrats Group, we regret that no initiative has been taken to include the 11th annual report of the Ombudsman at the October meeting, since the agenda of the November meeting is no less extensive than it was in October. And without further stressing our right, the events that have marked the last four weeks will, judging from past experience, be more focused on assessing the Ombudsman's action recently than on the substantive debate on the state of human rights as seen by the Ombudsman in the past year. That is why we will make a special effort to really discuss the report, the Government's opinion on it, the information on the implementation of the 31st recommendations adopted last year and the recommendations this year. It would be good if we didn't get lonely. All of the Ombudsman's reports so far have always been very important in the Social Democrats Group, because we have come from the belief that the Ombudsman must always defend human rights and fundamental freedoms on all his protection and protect the most vulnerable groups of the population. By drawing attention to the unacceptable behaviour of authorities and institutions, and in particular of people who have a major social impact, it raises awareness of the urgency of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and that it is this respect for the democratic criteria of a society. That it must therefore exercise and defend its independence and independence and regulate its work in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and international legal acts on human rights and fundamental freedoms; that it may also refer to the principles of justice and good governance in its interventions, ensure and impose Articles 3 and 4 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The importance of his work, however, gives him the ability to perceive violations of human rights even when he is not required to do so by a particular initiative or complaint. It also depends on the reputation that the Ombudsman institution needs and thus has a greater impact. Surely the Institute of the Ombudsman is no longer a stranger, but it is true that everyone is probably not always aware of its powers and powers. We are therefore always very careful in the Group of Social Democrats to try to reduce independent and independent control of all branches of government at all levels, so we always oppose this, no matter what supervisory task it is. In this context, attempts to systematically reduce the importance of the supervisory role and, as a result, the independence and independence of this institution, which is being pursued and carried out consistently by the ruling coalition, are also included. It is not that important in doing so if he uses the representatives of the Government or on-call criticisms of the Ombudsman, who, by continuing attacks on or on the Ombudsman's Institute of Human Rights personally, divert attention from the real problems that the Ombudsman draws attention to. Common requests for discharge or after the Ombudsman's resignation were co-formed by a public opinion and consequently by the Ombudsman's reputation and influence. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we see the Government's opinion on the 11th report and information on the implementation of the recommendations adopted by the National Assembly in its 10th report as an expression of respect and recognition, especially because it was not the case at first. It was only on the fourth report of the Ombudsman for 1998 that the Council of State adopted a recommendation that the Government prepare a report within three months on how it responds to the warnings of the Ombudsman, I leave an intermediate part and further indicate that such a report should be prepared by the Government every year in the future, and that the National Assembly should consider it at the same time as the Ombudsman's communication for each year. End of story. Of course, the response of individual ministries and other institutions is different, especially the fact that comments are not ignored. However, for the Social Democrats Group, this has helped to identify where the recommendations will have to be repeated if the problems really need to be resolved. That is why the Group of Social Democrats has tabled five amendments to complement the proposal for recommendations. Similar recommendations at the Commission's petitions meeting and for human rights and equal opportunities have not received the necessary majority, but we believe that it is necessary to follow the findings of the report on where rights are at risk and how the situation could be improved. The amendments will be presented in detail further in the debate. Now, let me just mention that we expect, honourable Members and Members, to support the recommendations relating to the protection of personal data, to the strategy of Roma inclusion in society, to regulate the situation of deleted persons, to address the problems caused by housing law, in particular tenants in denationalised apartments, tenants in non-profit apartments and former householders, and with zero tolerance for violence against children and adolescents. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that Members and Members should be particularly concerned about the Ombudsman's finding, as set out in the section on respect for human rights and legal security in the country, when it points out one of the biggest systemic problems, that is, the trial within a reasonable time and the decision on legal or reasonable deadlines in administrative matters and, in the following words, I quote: "We pay particular attention to an inadequate regulation that causes great problems to individuals. Laws are often adopted too quickly, without careful analysis of the situation and possible consequences, as well as partial policy interests in the National Assembly often change previously perhaps appropriate solutions. The preparation and adoption of laws also takes too little account of the warnings of the profession, which usually occurs soon after the law enters into force. Therefore, there is a need for renewed changes in laws that are often not sufficiently thought out. All of this causes confusion and thus dissatisfaction both citizens are looking for solutions as officials implementing these laws." End of story. Regardless of the Ombudsman’s setting up a mirror for the National Assembly as a whole, the ruling coalition, which is blind and deaf to warnings and proposals from the opposition, will need to consider this in particular. In his regular report, the Ombudsman highlighted the majority of those who regularly appear in his reports. Partly because some problems require a longer time to solve, and to solve some problems, we see a lack of political will in the Socialist Group of Members. In doing so, we pay particular attention to those violations or shortcomings for which a social consensus is needed and where the ruling coalition has different views from, for example, the opposition. Above all, it is not good when it is deaf to warnings from NGOs. Despite some movements and specific programmes to raise awareness of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the Ombudsman still sees that the awareness of people who are, or are not, their rights is too small. The Ombudsman notes a significant increase in the number of matters received concerning freedom of conscience and the ethics of the public word. The issue of new minorities is still open. If there is a question of equality before the law in the execution of a prison sentence, then, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, we must consistently enforce the principle that before the law we are all equal and must respect the same rules and laws when weighing the prison sentence for all people. Some warnings have been received by the Ombudsman from the past, so that improvements in the appeals procedures introduced by the complaint resolution regulation have been observed by the police two years ago and have been improved at the end of 2005. The maximum number of complaints about police work concerns the use of powers mainly in the performance of road traffic tasks and the alleged non-intervention in certain cases of criminal registration. Judicial backlogs and the right to a trial within a reasonable time are a permanent problem to which the Ombudsman points, and therefore claims to be a systemic problem. We have therefore supported all the measures proposed by the Government to reduce the judicial backlog in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, and we are interested to see what their effectiveness will be, in particular. Other problems in the judiciary are the same as those of previous years, and the same applies to administrative matters. We are particularly concerned about the Ombudsman’s findings that despite his warnings, housing problems drag on from year to year and nothing changes. Since the country has left the market and market legitimacy too much to strong individuals who dictate market legality, weaker groups of young people, old, less wealthy, are increasingly finding housing more difficult. It is still a pressing problem for tenants in denationalized apartments. However, the country does not show sufficient interest to resolve despite warnings from the Ombudsman and certain international human rights institutions. We have therefore tabled a proposal for a recommendation which would require the Government to find appropriate changes to housing legislation. Unpaid compulsory contributions to pension and disability insurance, which were widely discussed in last year's report, continue to cause difficulties for individuals. All of this is further hampered by lengthy judicial proceedings. In the field of labour relations, the Ombudsman still sees a great deal of illegality and other pressure on employees, particularly on private individuals where the Ombudsman cannot directly intervene. In particular, he pointed out illegal cancellations, irregular payment of salaries and other benefits, non-payment of overtime, prevention of the use of annual leave and so on. In the field of child care, he mentioned problems in entering children into kindergarten near home or at least in the same congregation. Often, nearby kindergartens are occupied, and the neighboring congregation generally charges higher contributions, causing discrimination between children. Therefore, it is particularly interesting to see what the proposal for a strategy for increasing fertility predicts. To date, the Ombudsman has prepared three special reports, but the problems highlighted in them have not yet been resolved. We are particularly reminding the Social Democrats, and therefore we have also tabled amendments to the recommendations to express our disagreement with the continuing delay and the elimination of these problems. In the face of housing problems and still unfulfilled Constitutional Court rulings relating to deleted persons, we are particularly alert to the relation to domestic violence and the anticipated legal solution to the problem that goes beyond the professions, NGOs and already prepared to some extent the decisions already taken. Although the National Assembly has adopted a recommendation ordering the Government to draw up a special law on the prevention of domestic violence, the government is on the move to hide domestic violence in general and prepare a family code. That this is a deliberate change in family policy and a change in values is now more than obvious. That it is particularly uncomfortable when it comes to preventing violence, especially against women, and that it is not hidden. Perhaps because of a two-year campaign that starts with a conference in Madrid yesterday and today, which we also marked in the National Assembly on Friday, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will change its position and listen to at least the recommendations of the Council of Europe and consider whether this most massive violation of human rights will be the most effectively persecuted in the way it has intended, while at the same time preventing violence against women in the family is seen as ensuring greater quality of life for all members of Slovenian society. The review of the Ombudsman's report assures us that by resolving individual roles, and in particular by resilient public appearances, he has tried to protect the most vulnerable groups within the limits of his powers and powers, but has equally pointed out the problems that are general. While the Government's opinion on the report suggests that some of the Ombudsman's findings are taken into account. Information on the implementation of the recommendations adopted to the 10th report also tackles certain weaknesses and violations. However, due to persistent or pending violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, we cannot attach to the Government's opinion that the situation of human rights in Slovenia is good. We therefore expect the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for recommendations and, above all, the proposals of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, of course we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposals for reports. In the introduction, we will discuss the whole report and then open the debate on the proposed additions and amendments. I call first to the word of Member Miran the Run. He's not here. He's got a word. I'm sorry, there's been a change. The first one has the word, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you, for your word. Good-bye to all of you. First of all, let me point out that I am one of those who are particularly sensitive to the issue of human rights protection, because it is among the people we started our journey during the "Slovenian Spring" during the Human Rights Committee, at a time when it was to set aside the protection of human rights sometimes also to expose ourselves, our family and the environment in which we live, in fact, to the unclear development that could have taken place in the coming years. Fortunately, there were very many of these people, there were 100,000 of them in Slovenia, in the end they could say 2 million, and all of them were happy, but I would point out that one person marked this "youth" extremely, and that this is also relevant to the topic that we are dealing with today, and I miss this person extremely much and I keep it in the most positive memory, this is Dr. Jože Pučnik. Do you know why this is so important today? Because with all responsibility I claim that Dr. Jože Pučnik was the only true guardian of human rights and freedoms and the principles of democracy in the whole country of Slovenia. He had an extremely high human ethics and thus fulfilled that fundamental condition that everyone listened to and respected his word. Now, when we get to the present situation and the report before us, I'd like to help myself with a quote. In fact, in one of the FDV textbooks, a prominent political scientist, Prof. Bogomir Ferfil, wrote an interesting scientific conclusion: "There can be more on the editorial policy of a medium than on what the media reports and on how it reports on a particular matter, we conclude from what it does not report; therefore, what this medium is silent about." In fact, while the fact that these reports are improving, it is necessary for all those involved in this to also give recognition, it is clear, however, that the individual parts are that there are individual claims, that even areas are extremely exposed to the public, which are simply not fully illuminated by different points of view and are therefore unobjective; I regret to point out not only at home and abroad. Because I have had the opportunity in the last period of time when individual distinguished human rights experts or professional officials came in from abroad and asked for information on the deleted, regarding Roma, about the various other topics that were present in public life, and they themselves said that they came from information sent abroad by the Ombudsman. Let me just say it in blanks, in the one that's coming back to life. When I explained to them that this is a topic which, in view of the issue of values for Slovenia, is inseparably linked to the issue of Slovenian independence, and when I told them that we are consistently defending the principle that if any of the actual injustices were committed to anyone, this injustice should be corrected, but that no one who calculated with the question of autonomy and positive attitudes towards our country could draw a profit from their negative behaviour, they said, "Now we understand why it is going to you, but why couldn't we understand it from the information we have received abroad?" You see, that's why it's so important when it comes to the reputation of our country, our nation as a whole, that things are, when we present them to the public, objective and comprehensive. In this particular report - and thus I conclude that I will not be too long - let me point out that there is at least one issue missing, which is a matter which has been extremely presented to the public, which is certainly worth the special attention of all those who are sensitive to the issue of human rights, which is the subject of an enemy speech. In fact, I'm going to ask a question that I've asked a few times, which has always been understood in person, and I'm asking you nicely, this time, not to happen the same way. It is a simple question of defining which should remain as an experience for the future, what kind of person should be fit for a function. Therefore, my question is the following, and I would also ask the Ombudsman to reply briefly and clearly to it, leaving this as a message to the National Assembly, which will have to decide shortly on the new Ombudsman. In fact, is a public official, a public official who unwittingly spreads hate speech in front of all the Slovenian public on TV, mocking people with the suffering of women, and saying that from Trobce's oven came a "pizzkin's smoke" - excuse the expression, I quote - is really appropriate for him to perform a state function and in particular to judge others and then send his judgments abroad and thereby create a public image of our country of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you, Comrade Grimes. The Ombudsman shall be included in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I already told the Human Rights Commission that it was a woman's quote, not that I said it, which was there, but I told and also published in the newspaper the whole context and I apologized and admitted that it was my grave mistake - a mistake because I was quoting someone else and the other was the woman who said it, the writer. I won't talk about it anymore. By the time I have the floor, I may also respond to the incorrect information that the Ombudsman is supposed to send to the world. My former Commissioner for Human Rights and I have once discussed my information on deleted persons. By the way, I also told him that I heard a lot of comments about my information being one-way. The Commissioner laughed and said that the Slovenian policy insulted him. Because if they think that the Commissioner for Human Rights is based on one piece of information, then this is very bad for those who think so. Before he gets here, he gets from at least three, four, five, six different sources of information, including from the government, so it's funny to report that the Commissioner is only working on the basis of my opinion. If Slovenian policy does so, then of course the result is the same as it is, it works only on one basis. We tried to say as objectively as possible to the current Commissioner when he arrived. But, clearly, I also told him that what I'm telling him and my associates is one side and he's going to have to get more information from the other side, which he did. He talked to the ministers, talked to NGOs, talked to the victims, and it was a little funny and incomprehensible for him to warn him about this, because he said it was a little funny that the Commissioner would not light up any problem on all sides. Moreover, if it were true that the Commissioner would only then have found that he had been misled, then of course neither the current nor previous Commissioner for Human Rights would have defended the positions he was defending. This means, in the case of deleted compliance with the Constitutional Court's decisions, in the case of the current one - although this is not the subject of this year's problem - and what is also on the Council of Europe's website. But I'll answer the rest later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you. Member Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The discussions on the Ombudsman's Report, the content of this report, the Ombudsman's work and I would hope that the work of the Commission on Human Rights and our work in Parliament will also help to make progress in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, one of the characteristics and quality of the rule of law, in Slovenia. I think we can be satisfied with that. This should not mean that we do not recognize that the exercise of human rights is never perfect, that new issues and new problems are being raised and that, unfortunately, there are sometimes old issues on which spears are being broken and about which there is no willingness to speak honestly and objectively about them. In our Group of Members, we believe that the Ombudsman's report shows that there is a large-scale quality of activity, that he has warned and monitored practically all open issues about the realization of human rights, that he has also incorporated his character into this work, which is normal, because there is no one who does not include in his work his character with good and bad characteristics, but I think it is right to point out that his work has been directed not only to help individuals who have come before the Ombudsman with their specific problems, but also to warn society, while as a society we have an extremely important role in the National Assembly as legislators and supervisors of the executive branch, because some issues require further enlightenment. Since we believe in the Social Democrats' Group that the Ombudsman's report is particularly important, the government's response report, which is qualitative and correct this time, and that the positions adopted by the National Assembly in the report are particularly important, because these opinions direct the attention of all societies, the National Assembly, the Government, administrations, judicial institutions and ultimately the Ombudsman to the activities needed, we give these recommendations special attention. And I would like to allow the support that we give to the Group of Members to mention three issues on which I think it is a shame that their mother's working body has not been prepared to support them in opposition to the opposition and that it is a shame that we do not see them as a problem to start solving them in an appropriate manner. The first question, on which I hope that there will be no more open questions at the meeting of the National Assembly, will be the proposal for the Government to establish a long-term strategy for Roma inclusion in society. If it is not clear to all of us today that this must be done, then the only thing we do not want to admit is that it is wise for the National Assembly to conclude this, because the Government has already concluded this by drawing up the Romani law and by paying particular attention in the framework of the Romani law - which I consider to be positive, not negative - has adopted the necessary, annual programme of concrete activities to be taken into account in the cooperation of the Roma for their full integration into our society. And now to say that this is not our common task, I simply do not understand, and it can be simply and only capricious that this cannot be concluded by the National Assembly, because this is one of the recommendations that comes from the Ombudsman's report, no matter how the concrete solutions will then be formulated - and this moment would also stop. Second of all, our warning is about deleted. We knowingly did not want to talk about how and how things should be regulated, even though you know the position of the Socialist Group of Members. In our firm belief, they can only be regulated by taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court, not otherwise, but we did not want to put this in the conclusion that the issue would not be raised at this point. But to say that this is not one of the questions that requires an answer is probably a shame. And however it may be mine or may be our own, and our Group of Members', desire to save it at home, without potential, without politicisation, we cannot object to the fact that the affected seek their support in the international institutions in Europe as well. This is formally possible, this is their right, but this should not mean that Slovenia closes and says no, and then we do not want to talk because someone is suing us. Let's be realistic. Let us resolve problems on our own as soon as possible so that we do not have to walk with them in front of European institutions, whether it be the European Court of Human Rights, the Commissioner for Human Rights or any other institution. And the third question, related also to some willingness of the National Assembly and this coalition to mention it as a necessary consideration, is the question that is linked to the situation of tenants in former denationalised apartments, now, as regards the new housing law, is increasingly linked to tenants in general, linked to housewives as a particular problem and ultimately, although in the latter case less to human rights, more to the economic situation, also to tenants in business premises. It is not true to admit that the decisions taken by the State at these points did not create conflict situations which were criminal to all, both to new owners and especially to tenants. To say that there was no attempt to do something; it is, but problems still exist. The international institutions dealing with the position of tenants point out that we can say as we have done so far: no, it is not true, they do not understand us, they come from the wrong information, those who inform them, lie. We don't have any of this. That is why I also expect at this point that we will be ready to accept this recommendation, not in the hope that we will solve the problem overnight, but in the hope that we will recognise it and that we are ready to start thinking about how, in real material frameworks, we certainly will not be working again for any group, but we are also starting to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Ivan Yelen has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you, Vice President. I'll probably be the shortest. With this report of the Ombudsman, we say goodbye from Mr Hanzko. I am pleased to hear messages of support from government or police groups for this report, which, last but not least, has been a mirror of our society and also a mirror of the behaviour of Slovenian politics, especially in power as well as others. And like every year when we discussed the report, even when I belonged to the ruling majority, I supported such a mirror, because I cannot change it, it is written. We may object to some things that we do not like, but the guardian is therefore appointed there to observe us, watch us, and warn us about what we do wrong. Therefore, on this occasion, I must say, in view of the situation in which Mr Hanžek himself has been in, I must act before the attacks of certain politicians, certain political parties, and given the situation that we are in with regard to the social mood of minorities, such and others, that this work has not been easy. Therefore, I would like to thank him sincerely for the efforts he has made to make the role of the guardian visible, important, identifiable, and for all the warnings he has given to politics. I think that continuing this mission will be equally difficult, if not even more, and there is much work to be done in front of the one or the one who will inherit what is leaving. That is why Mr Hanzko thanks for everything he has done, not least by giving the correct warning when there was no adequate response at home, European, i.e. partner institutions that care about human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you. My colleague Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to the Ombudsman with colleagues, all representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I am convinced that each person with his own personality seals the work he does. However, by its personality and way of working and approach, it also makes a mark on the institution that runs it. Even more so, if it is an institution that is in the attention of the media, the public, the politics and if it is a wider community of citizens and citizens under the mirror. The Ombudsman's institution must be one of those. Since the Slovenian Democratic Party also gave support six years ago for the election of Mr Hanžk as Ombudsman, it has, of course, also taken responsibility for his work. If you have a choice, of course you take responsibility, how and what. In general, I can say that Mr Hanžk's work has always been quite thorough, but I am convinced today that there have been no such violations of human rights in our country since we have a country of our own, unless, of course, I compare them back to totalitarianism, there have been no such violations that deserve the attention of the general public. That's less. Somehow I was hurt when I heard from the Ombudsman that the Republic of Slovenia did not provide enough for minorities living in our country. If, of course, we look at the constitutional rights both Hungarian and Italian have with us and all the other communities that live and are organised in our country - the right to their language, culture, their identities - this assessment was, in my opinion, incorrect and not good in this way to represent or speak about their own country. Given that I know this area better - not only in the European community, but also in the wider world - I can state with responsibility that if there is anywhere, then in Slovenia or Slovenia can be a model for solving any minority problems. With the problem that we have been dealing with for the last few days in relation to Ambrus or Roma, I can say that I personally know many of them, for at least four years I have been acting as a Member in Prekmurje, where the Roma are large and I can say, some personal friends. Colleagues and colleagues, it is not the case that we Slovenians are impatient with people, that we are impatient with the Roma, that of course we do not want someone who is connected with crime, someone who does not respect the law, someone who obviously acts completely differently than the general norm. Here is the problem - you will probably agree with me, Mr Hanžek - institutions that did not work when they should and did not act in terms of equality before the law of all and every citizen. In view of this, as has already been said, the last report and that we will have a brief proposal for a new Ombudsman, I would like to say that, but also in this place, because we can also hear someone with a lot of experience in this area, in a comment that this Ombudsman would work more on the ground, that he would act responsibly on the ground and that he would have more direct contact with people. Secondly, I would like the Ombudsman to propose an amendment to Article 43 of the Law on the Ombudsman, which states that the report shall be submitted by 30 September of the following year. If all other transactions relating to accounts and finances can be made by the end of February, then I see no reason why this report could not be done by the end of February and considered in the first third or fourth of the current year. At that time, things are even fresher and clearer; otherwise, there are many debates that have taken place in the current year. I would like the new Ombudsman to take a closer look at the area of damage to social property. Over 100,000 people have lost their jobs in one way or another, we have received some of the modern-day rich who have come to these positions in a corrupt way, and unfortunately there was no word about it. It would also be good on the part of the Ombudsman and it would make citizens and citizens feel more protected in terms of, if, even for those bears, who look under the fingertips, not just institutions which unfortunately do not do their own. Let us remember the judiciary, remember Šubica, remember Elan and so on; that is, the crimes that have actually taken place in the highest peaks of one of the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you. Member Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. We are talking about the 11th periodic report of the Ombudsman. And even in this report, as in the reports so far, there have been repeated themes that have been going on for years. If I focus first on the subject of deleted persons, which Mr Hanžek says in the report that this government does not show a willingness to submit some solutions that would lead to normalisation of the situation of deleted persons. It is true that this problem has been going on for more than a decade now, it is true that this issue has been present before the previous authorities, but it is not true what Mr Hanžek says and states in his report that this Government is not trying to solve this problem. I'm afraid that's not the case. In 2005, the Ministry of the Interior sent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a constitutional law to supplement the constitutional law and this supplement was intended to solve the whole issue of the deleted. And to say that nothing has been done in this area, I'm not going to say a lie, I'm going to say a simple delusion. The Ombudsman in the chapter of Constitutional Law, or freedom of conscience, also says that the Ombudsman’s office is not satisfied with the regulation of religious freedom. I agree with that statement. True, the 1976 Religious Freedom Act is bad. In all 30 years in force, he had only two changes and these two were minimal. Of course, the government has therefore drawn up a new law that fully governs the field of religious freedom. However, since there have been a lot of comments on this law, of course the law has not yet been adopted and this area is not regulated. Of course, the opposition has also submitted its law, Mr Gulič has submitted it, but I believe it is even worse than what we now have in 1976. Mr Hanžek or the Ombudsman also pays attention to the issue of intolerance. Quite a bit of space, paper is meant for this issue. In his report last year, the Ombudsman said or stated that it was positive that anti-discrimination legislation and the establishment of an institution of equal opportunity advocates had been adopted. Up until now everything is fine and well, but Mr Hanžek also said that, after the change of power, intolerance has begun to spread into all times of social life. We could discuss this a lot, but I agree with something that has been expressed in this report, namely that they have gone too far in certain cases in the media. That certain events have occurred that go beyond all borders and affect the integrity of dignity or human dignity and integrity. Of course, it shouldn't be happening anywhere and nobody. However, when the Ombudsman speaks of the impatient speech that spreads throughout the country, especially in these two years since the change of power, he also forgets his impatient speech. In one of the interviews, if I am not mistaken, he said that for him every impatient speech is unacceptable, especially in people who make public opinion and life in the country to a certain extent. Now I don't know if he meant himself with this, because the fact is that public opinion is certainly the Ombudsman. And if we look at just some of his statements, because in some cases he reacts very loudly, very decisively, sometimes he may even cross the border in his expression, and in some cases the same Ombudsman does not respond and is silent. In one of the radio shows, if I am not mistaken, or in the Sunday diary, it was said that some Slovenian politicians should have been put under the knife a long time ago. Mr Hanžek did not respond to such an hate speech, but in the broadcast Hribar said what his colleague Grims had already said. In short, a number of the Ombudsman's statements do not fall within the Ombudsman's domain, even if we look at the latest developments concerning the Roma problem mentioned here on the Ambrus area. I will not judge now who is right, who is wrong, what should be arranged, but the fact that when the Ombudsman first says that this is the end of the rule of law, then that says it abroad, then, if I am not wrong, in a foreign press comparing Prime Minister Janez Janša to Haider, then the actions that are now taking place with the Serbian province, I think this is a typical example of an impatient speech, not focusing on solving the problem. The fact is that we are talking a lot in this report about the Roma problem, as we have been talking about it all these years, but we are primarily talking about this Roma issue. Mr Hanžek has not yet indicated any solution that would lead to a better situation for the Roma. Perhaps just for the end of something in the chapter on justice, where it is repeatedly reminded of judicial backlogs and violations of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. Indeed, Slovenia is very burdened by this problem, and it is true that these delays are not only from these two years or from the last year. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Justice is working very hard to remedy these judicial setbacks. It is necessary to mention that the Lukenda project has been adopted, it is said that this huge amount of legislation is changing precisely to eliminate the backlogs, but if I am not mistaken, I may have made a mistake, but I have not seen it in the Ombudsman's report. Let's just point out that the trend is to stimulate the reduction of judicial backlogs. It is commendable, however, that the Ombudsman sees the office's positive position towards a reduction in notary tariffs. I will, of course, support all the recommendations, but above all, I will support the actions that are going in the direction of solving these problems, as well as the problems of human rights resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ombudsman with colleagues, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about human rights and when we talk about the activities or activities of the Ombudsman, it is important to say that the Ombudsman's activities have also increased awareness of human rights within our society, or people have seen that they have certain rights and that they also come, for example, to sent offices. I guess I'm not the only one with this experience, you probably have this experience for all of you who have sent offices all over Slovenia. Most people come because of unemployment, because of the pressures that result from unemployment because they are removed from the register, because of the artificial decline in the number of unemployed in the records, and in fact people are left without work, second place is housing, people's desire to get an apartment, the desire of young people, young families to afford a decent life, and third thing I face in the office is judicial proceedings, or judicial backlogs. If, at least a colleague has been actively employed in these judicial backlogs, at least a while ago, he said that they are not able to report innovations within the Ministry of Justice when he wants to address the shortcomings of the system causing judicial backlogs, it is a little more difficult in other areas. What the Ombudsman identifies in the field of housing and in some part also gives him the Ministry of Environment and Space are problems with so-called non-profit dwellings, which include so-called social housing for several years. We once spoke to them about social housing, and people realized that if they were social housing, then the rent was lower and they wanted to get these apartments or housing units just because they were able to pay them. I mean the rent. Today we have non-profit apartments with non-profit rents that are not sufficient for investors to cover investments. I am thinking of local communities, municipalities that build non-profit apartments, with these rents having difficulty covering investment costs, and on the other hand we have people living in these non-profit apartments with non-profit rents who cannot pay these rents because this non-profit rent is quite high and then we fall into this vicious circle when the local community is legally bound to subsidise the rent to those who are entitled to it. And at least in Velenj, I am following this issue and I find that every week we get applications and each week we approve some subsidised rents. This, of course, means that we are also in this way a fund or funds that could otherwise be invested in the construction of new non-profit apartments. That I do not even talk about denationalised dwellings or residents in denationalised dwellings, because my colleague Potrč has talked about this and we have been discussing this for the last ten years, and in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, before the United List of Social Democrats, we have tried to regulate these matters so that those who have lived or live in these denationalised apartments have certain rights or opportunities. Every year I discuss or discuss police procedures in the consideration of the Ombudsman's Report. And the Ombudsman notes this time that it is an encouraging appeal that 53% of those who file a complaint somehow agree with the decision or with the actions of the head of the organizational unit. According to data from the Ministry of the Interior, there were 315 Senate meetings in the previous year, where 20% of these complaints were justified. This is information that can mean that attempts have been made to resolve complaints in this way, i.e. directly where they originate, that these proposals have been good. I myself recall that when Dr Rado Bohinc, as Minister of the Interior, proposed this, there were quite a few concerns about this solution. Today, this solution is proving to be a good one. I have already seen at a meeting of the Health Committee, as noted by the Ombudsman, that the rights of patients in the legislation are not adequately regulated so that we are still lagging behind. It was also interesting that there were complaints, I think even the minister was talking about that the complaints were getting more and more. However, it would be interesting to prepare an analysis of where these complaints occur most frequently. In public health care, we have had public institutions and individuals with concessions for several years now, and it would be interesting to hear an analysis or to see an analysis from this area where there are several complaints, either in public institutions or in individuals who carry out medical services by concession. In particular, because of this weighty, thorough analysis, we are still missing when we are talking about health policy in the coming years and decisions on the award of concessions in the coming years. In the meantime, there are concession nights happening to us not to say the concessional night when concessions are being awarded. And it is no wonder that there are also doctors who want to become privates who want to obtain a concession, and they do not gain it because they are in an unequal position with those who have already obtained the concession. There is a need for intervention here, and the guardian's warnings in this area are very welcome. Complaints, which I hear somehow in the offices of the Members, also refer to health insurance, particularly medical treatment, where some find that they get this right, others find that they do not have these rights, they ask for differences, they ask for arguments and Members find it difficult to answer. In doing so, however, it will be necessary to consider that these committees, which decide on who and, of course, where to go for medical treatment, bring people closer together and enable patients to participate more actively. Not that the decision to do so is now far from the patient, away from the patient, somewhere else and the patient has only the opportunity to wait for the decision of this commission. And when that decision is made, it may or may not agree with her. Given that this is indeed the last report in which the Ombudsman participates as actively as he can today, I would also like to take this opportunity to say what I have already said in the introduction, including with his activity, even with his activities, we have been able to tell citizens and citizens about the rights we are going through. And it is much more common to hear people's demands not to interfere with their rights, and it is also increasingly common to hear people demanding that they have their rights as enshrined in the Constitution, and perhaps even in any law. Therefore, I sincerely thank the Ombudsman for his action in recent years.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you. Member Drago Koren has the floor. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend. [[He's not here.]] I give the word "magic." Franz Znidarsich. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Vice President, the Honourable Guardian! A regular report on the activities of the Ombudsman and the Office is an opportunity for many discussions. I also welcome the quality of the text of the debate in the working body and the attention paid to this report by the Government and the general public. Allow me to take this last report away from this text for a moment and say that with my full term as a guardian, I will say that I am extremely pleased. I remember the situation in the previous National Assembly, when the Ombudsman became a virtually complete stranger to the Slovenian political public. I myself knew him from the commitment to the rights of Kosovo Albanians, and then I argued with my colleague that they should vote without reservation for him, that they would not regret it and that we would have a more active guardian in Slovenia than we had before. This assumption has been confirmed, and indeed, I will say, thank you, no matter the misunderstandings that once caused the work of the office and its boss. That there are these misunderstandings is probably the result of a particular political culture that reigns in the Republic of Slovenia, where it is virtually difficult to discuss problems without in fact feeling hurt, either as the chairman of an office or as a representative of a party. That is why, I will say, quite unusually, from the performances of the work of our colleagues, it is such a quiet pleasure that they will no longer have to deal with Mr Hanzek. But this quiet satisfaction, of course, will not solve the problems that the office is alerting to. And what is true is that the Ombudsman is the institution that normally brings bad news to the National Assembly. We should be able to deal with that. This is certainly not a pleasant task, but it is essential if we are to face some very complex problems. It is worth repeating because there is a considerable misunderstanding that human rights are essentially universal. And that also means that they demand and assume, I'll say, a universal discussion. It is absolutely impossible to expect anyone anywhere in the world to leave the debate on human rights issues. This is an unusual mistake in Slovenia, where we think that if someone asks a certain question, it interferes with our internal affairs. Therefore, I really repeat, it must be recognized that human rights are universal and require universal protection, with all available means. If we knew that, we would not be surprised to know that someone is telling someone or that someone is asking someone. That is why we also have different reports, from NGOs, not least from a special body in the United Nations, that is on the agendas of different meetings in the European Union, this is regularly reported if you want, the State Department, newspapers and so on. It is necessary to face the fact that this is a universal issue, and if we do not know how to solve a particular problem ourselves, it is expected of everyone to put pressure on the solution of these things. And in this regard, I also take international pressure as a welcome help, welcome pressure, sometimes advice that certain things need to be resolved. Last but not least, we have committed ourselves to protecting these things, which are civilisational acquisitions, through laws, the Constitution and the adoption of various international conventions. Well, there's a lot of questions he's pointing out to the guardian. I will focus myself specifically on only one and connect it perhaps also with what we are witnessing right now in Slovenia. This is a matter of solving the problems that have been deleted. We have heard here today that the Government has already done a great deal, that it has stuck somewhere in the government procedure to the proposal for a constitutional law supplementing the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that this act has probably remained in these bureaucratic procedures somewhere. It is true, however, that nothing concrete has been done in two years to solve this problem. And for two years, I think it's enough time for the coalition to take responsibility for solving this issue as well. Finally, it is necessary to know that the problem did not arise in one of Drnovsk's governments, as is commonly said, but that in a formal sense this problem arose already in February 1992. You can see who was forming the government at the time, and who, I'll say, caused this deletion. But this thing doesn't change anything. The story has been very long and since 1999, when the Constitutional Court first, if I am not mistaken, ruled on these things, there have been several attempts to resolve them. Some of the individual mouths have been resolved, but here we come at a time when the core of people, who also make up today's coalition, prevented, in the previous term, from trying to resolve this problem in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. And here I wonder whether it can be expected of this government at all, given that when various solutions were on the table that would have brought Slovenia out of this shameless disgrace, whether there is a political will to do what the Constitutional Court imposed on it by two decisions. I doubt that Minister Mate is able to do this, I really doubt that I would, not least, crash into those who have collected signatures for the referendum, those who have collected signatures to prevent certain solutions and even those who have, I will say, demonstrated together with the representatives of the valley villages against the Roma a few years ago. That is why, in fact, we are in a situation where the state, and this is also expected by the international public, needs to do something about it. However, the country is ruled by people who have largely caused these problems to remain unsolvable. That is why we also have the situation that it is impossible in the National Assembly to take a simple decision, except when our former colleague, Mr Rupar, made a mistake that it is necessary, as he himself said later and all his fellow Members, that something should be regulated in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. That's, I'll say, that's the problem. And I'm not sure the coalition is capable of going through all the frustrations that it's built in this problem and solving this and similar problem. Look, since May 2005, when such a decision was taken, nothing has happened. Minister Mate organized two meetings where he said he would seek his consent. These meetings were extremely short, the content was virtually gone, and then everything quieted down. He hasn't done anything since December of last year, and he's really done nothing. And no one was lurking in it, no one was bothering him about finding this consensus, did nothing, and now we can ask ourselves if he would do anything later or not do anything. I'm afraid not and that certain things will not be resolved as long as we have such a government in Slovenia. This means a few more years of international prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone in the hall. It is nice to hear the report, which shows that the human rights situation is only progressing in some way. We have heard that the right to a trial is progressing within a reasonable time to shorten judicial backlogs, then we have heard of deleted children's rights. I hope that the Ombudsman in the new organization will come to life. I had my own concerns a week ago because all I saw in the guardian's office was an extra bureaucrat. In the new command, in the new organization, I hope that this guardian will come to life and cover a very complex and complex area. But I was wondering how to write a report to the person who jumped first and then looked where he jumped. How can a person write a report comparing the President of the country with Haider and, of course, he is also reluctant to insult some citizens, because if he is the President of the State of Haider, then certainly someone can be a member of Haimadienst and so on. How to write in the report a comparison of events in Slovenia compared to events in Krajina. And then I come to the fact that there was a lot left unwritten, because it was hard to deal with because it was too demanding, maybe it was nicer or more "in line" "on line" or "cool" dealing with some other not-so-hot stuff. During this five-year period, the right to education guaranteed by the law of a larger group of Roma children was certainly violated. They were not sent to schools and today we can read and monitor data on the extremely poor and catastrophic education structure of Roma in Dolenjska and Kočevska. Their job opportunities, not to talk about better jobs, are almost nothing. The school is compulsory for all citizens in Slovenia, the primary school and the violation of this basic right for children by hiding for some specific group, I think it is unacceptable. That is exactly what has been overlooked in all five years, and therefore the situation is like boiling water under the cover, it is boiling and boiling and boiling once. If all citizens are equal before the law, where is equality before the law or the rights of all of these countries that are plagued by it? If they tolerated the missing green head, the chicken, the kilogram of potatoes, they certainly cannot tolerate the criminal activity that was taking place. In any event, it should be noted that one of the countries today is fighting for life, that in fact only modern medical science preserves it in life. These great problems, which were sweeping under the carpet, have now been hit with even so much force on the day. I imagine the work of the Ombudsman somehow, as described in the book Quo Vadis, where Guy Petroni was an arbitrator of elegance. He warned of the manners, of the elegant Roman nobility and the emperor, he was unforgivable and hoped for something to read to him. However, the Ombudsman must warn all competent institutions, strictly, without any reservations, without any filters or selections. And it is certain areas that are missing in the report because they did not happen that have led to this crisis. Of course, it is also difficult to expect any greater involvement in the field of intolerance and hate speech if, at the Ombudsman’s own pace, sometimes abusive, sometimes hustling words. I will not repeat the ugly words of the Hribar show, they have been told too many times, certainly not to come from the mouth of the person who is in the eyes of all Slovenia. All of these events, which have also sounded abroad, have some sort of smoky status and put us in an uncomfortable light by the citizens. Or we can compare Ambrus’s natives with the captains because they were organized in the same way or with road prisons as they were in Krajina. These very missing issues are shed by some strange light on the report, which, as I said at the outset, has some positive points, but in some areas something has moved for the better. And right here is the hope that we will learn something or direct ourselves to the future Guardian of Human Rights, or that the future guardian, the future office, will deal with things that go on year after year and may only make some improvement or that the next report of the next guardian may be even more optimistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you, Comrade Ziherl. However, Mr Hanžek joined the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to clear up about Heather and the others. Mrs. Irgle said that if she wasn't mistaken, I compared Janez Janša to Heather. Yeah, you're wrong. But Ambassador Zicherl said I was comparing the president of the country to Heather. You're wrong, too. At least what I'd ask if you're accusing me of reading what it is first, I can read what I said to you. So that we can talk about concrete things. If we compare the behavior of Heather and the Slovenian authorities, they are largely identical. It's not the President, it's not the Slovenian people, it's not the President of the Government or that. Then I explained what was going on. It's going to that "highly identical" thing. The attitude towards the Constitutional Court. What I have been saying here for years is disregarded by the Constitutional Court's decision in cases where they have been deleted, Heather does not respect the Constitutional Court's decision in cases of a Slovenian minority. We are being heard to make the Constitutional Law to circumvent the deleted, Heather tried to make a constitutional law in order to bypass the Slovenian minority. We were told that the referendum was on human rights, a constitutional decision, etc. Let the higher will of the people. I'm the one who warned you this wasn't working. I've listened to a series of attacks that people's will is the highest, and whatever it is. He also said that he wanted to have a referendum on Slovenian inscriptions and Slovenian minority. Luckily, he was stopped there. He was with us. That's three points I've said where I see identical things. And we can talk about whether I was right or wrong. Three years ago, I started talking, and then three years ago, I warned that it would happen, that I would continue here, too, that I didn't know who was copying who. I think Heather is ours because all our moves were made just before Heather. At that time, I also said, many times in the National Assembly, not to do so with the Constitutional Decision, the Constitutional Court's decision, because it will weaken Slovenia in Koroška. That's what I've been saying here. I got 'em in nicknames, 'on my head'. I'm making 'em up. And that's what happened. And we can talk about whether I was right or wrong, whether it's coincidence or not. I think these are connections. But I wasn't talking about the President of the Government or the President of the Republic. Not the President of the Republic in this context at all. While I'm here, speaking of which, I'd like to discuss equality before marriage. It's been said several times. That's right. In this report on page 57, I do not know which one is in your Rapporteur, but this is in Chapter 2.5 of the Police Procedures. We have done a thorough investigation with the Ombudsman in some case of providing or protesting against the fact that the police do not do enough against Roma crime. You can see it here, and we wrote it back then. In the event that the law is not the same for all, this case is said to be the case, the injured person considers that State aid is not sufficient or sufficiently effective, he resorts to self-help, which is the worst solution from the point of view of the rule of law. That's what we wrote six months before Ambrus. That's what we warned about. As it continues to be said that we have been under-warning, I have to repeat it again, almost every year I have been listening here to work, and this year it was too much with Roma when I warned that there should be serious integration with Roma in all areas. This means first education, living conditions, employment, etc. He wasn't listening, he was in the Human Rights Commission a month ago, etc. This recommendation, which was not my recommendation, but which was based on our report, has failed. However, I agree that these problems have largely been thrown under the carpet, but you cannot attribute this to the Ombudsman's institution because we have talked about these things constantly. Even too many times after the echoes. It's deleted. This has already been said many times, the only solution is to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. This is not just our opinion, it is the opinion of the Council of Europe, the Commissioner for Human Rights, etc. The argument that there is a constitutional law somewhere in the drawer is that the thing that has also encouraged me, among other things, that I have internationalised this moment, because I see that without it there is nothing to be done, because things go into drawers and then they are coordinated towards the next elections when they are used again in one form or another. Perhaps just a little bit more about what has been said that the watchman should work more on the ground and meet people. The guardian is almost unable to work in the field as we have already done, both the guardian personally and all three deputies who have remained, in 14 days it will be just one more and other colleagues we walk a lot in schools, walk a lot in different institutions, get to know people, so it would almost be harder than if we had somehow 10 additional people, which I agree with. So much for now, Aha, maybe these two. [[...]] Today I have already said - I regret that Mrs Uhanov is not here - about the letters to be received - about Ambrus I do not mean to speak because this is this year's thing and not last year, but it has been said that we have already received - we have not received letters from Ambrus, except for two unsigned letters, without specific indications. They referred to newspaper articles about what the police had already done and that where the police had done something, there is no point in doing anything. Third, the last letter, we did, but that was at the beginning of this month, and the next day the writers received an answer. Maybe it's about the pedophile list. It is a little confusing to believe that the Ombudsman simply opposed human rights. A list of pedophiles exists, so that any person accused of pedophilia is known to have been accused or punished and can be found in the police files or anyone else. But we opposed the public paedophiles list. That's something else. You can also make a different list that will be accessible, but you need to change the law again. Please, Members of the National Assembly, you are a legislative body, not to demand that something be done without you, without law. You must adopt a law that will determine how and who can work and look into such a list. However, I am absolutely against it, and not just me, all the profession is against such a list being made public, because this list can only mean violence. So far, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. Your speech sparked a procedural proposal and three replicas. Procedural proposal, colleague Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Madam President, I ask you to remind the respectable Ombudsman, Mr Hanžk, not to mislead this assembly and the public. You know, you're a normal guy. It is true that they may be misinterpreted by one of the Members of Parliament, but remember, you have appointed the esteemed Vice-President of this House, Mr Pečet, as a racist and all members of the Slovenian National Party. Was that a mistake, too? [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Thank you. I needed that answer, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Can you repeat the microphone, Mr. Hanžek?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Excuse me! That's what I still think.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you. We continue with three replicas. The first replica is from a colleague of Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thanks again for saying that. I think there's been a "lapsus lingue" in my debate. Exactly what position Janš is in. And if we look at the title "Janš like Haider" in a foreign press and we happen to be in this country on a visit, we can be automatically treated as "heimadiensts". This is where my debate went, and once again I apologize for my mistake, "Lapsus lingue". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you. Second replica, colleague Žgajner.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. From this point of view, I will act as a non-racist Barbara Žgajner Tavš, despite the fact that I am the Ombudsman of Human Rights, you want to-do not because I am a member of the Slovenian National Party or a member of the Slovenian National Party, who throws me into a basket with racists. It is unacceptable and from this place I protest, I protest, Mr Vice-President, and I also protest the respectable Ombudsman. We shouldn't have allowed that from your function. And let me focus on the replica. The replica you challenged by talking about the so-called pedophile registry. You know, I'm still behind what I said when, last time I put in the parliamentary procedure, a novelty of the Penal Code, I was saying what was written in the amendment to the Penal Code. There was a confrontation at one of the radio stations. So were you and me at this confrontation. It was just a draft penal code, a novelty of the penal code. Without seeing what's written in this draft, you've gone against a priori. These are the things that hold and I don't know why you challenged this replica, your respectable Lord of Human Rights. And allow when you mention that paedophile registries exist. That's not true. That's not true. If you don't know this area, then don't talk about it because it's a simple deception or a lie. And if such registers existed, then I just don't understand how a man who was legally convicted of a sexual assault on a person under the age of 15 could have moved from Rush to another elementary school, to Jerena. And explain to me all the logic you seem to have. And another matter to which I must also protest, my dear guardian. You mentioned self-help. I hope you know what "self-help" means. You said self-help from the legal state's point of view is the worst solution, something in this context, I hope I understood you correctly. Yes, you are. That's not true. If self-help from the rule of law were the worst possible solution, then there would not be so many and so many self-help groups helping those people within the rule of law who are not being assisted by the State. This area should be known because it is, after all, also part of the area of civil society, which I believe you have very well mastered, at least when it comes to a select group within civil society. And another matter that I will mention in this context, and I am also protesting. Self-help, when we talk about Roma issues, is neither justified nor proper, respectable Mr. Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you. You asked me, on the one hand, to make it almost impossible. As you know, everyone has their joy, as does our Ombudsman, for whom I personally estimate that he has some kind of permanent pathological deficit, but, of course, these are personal evaluations. But we continue with the second replica. Colleague Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you. I'd just like to replicate Mr. Hanzk for a moment. Now, I don't know if we've had a good time, but it clearly says here in the title "Hanžek," quote, "Janša like Haider." So Jansza as Haider. Now I don't know if you're saying this, obviously, so I can't accept this criticism that I didn't quote your words correctly. One more thing. You said before that you have three assistants, Mr. Guardian, you say you're always on the ground, but so far you and both your assistants have failed to come to Ambrus and talk to the locals. The minister manages this almost every day now, and he's alone. You're always dealing with this problem, and I think we could be there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go, fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	Mr Vice President, you have some problems in running this meeting. In order not to embarrass everyone else and not to listen to the opinions you have on the Ombudsman, I propose that you suspend the meeting and ask President Tsukati to determine a new one, I will say, the Vice-President or that he himself will lead this meeting to the end. For it is not acceptable for you to label someone who is a guest in the National Assembly as you have marked. Please take this as a proposal from our Group of Members and do so immediately. I don't think you're capable, I'm going to say some other solutions that might be decent, and I'm going to say myself that I'm not sure you're capable of being decent in this case, so please take these proposals as very serious and do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you. Your problem and your thinking have been brought to the attention of the National Assembly. I will not do this because, just as an explanation and a briefing to the other Members in five minutes, the exchange takes place in one way or another at the leadership of the National Assembly. However, you have made quite a few procedural proposals. My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. In such a case, if we follow this intention of Mr Školč, please, if you also remove the guest from this Chamber and authorize someone else to replace him here, because it is unacceptable that Members of this High Council are opposed to racists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you, Comrade Zagorac. If I had done or taken into account the first procedural proposal of my colleague, I would have taken yours into account, so I will not have any. We continue the debate. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. You'll gain procedurally when Comrade Gulic does his job because I've already invited him. Are you going to have a word with me or not? [[No, no, ……]] We continue the debate. The word has been delivered by the Member of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Of course I think, Mr Pece, that you have been holding a meeting very improperly lately and in recent moments. Finally, I must say that it is not likely that President Tsukati has appointed you at this point in the agenda, because you are obviously holding a meeting because it is also the wish of someone to have the conflicts that have already been between you and the Ombudsman several times. Of course, my suggestion was that, given that we didn't all understand your words that you asked against the wall there, but repeat what you said about a certain flaw, a deficit, I think almost no one understood. And that's my procedural proposal. Now I don't know if I should, it's all coming into my discussion and not as a procedural proposal, so I think it's another incorrectity anymore. But I will continue my debate. First of all, with regard to the Ombudsman's conduct. I must say, far from being able to portray this old guardian as a bureaucrat, which has happened several times today, but above all, I think the intention of today's debate is to show the guardian with a constant repetition, for which he has in some way also repented in the broadcast of the Hribar as a broken record. But, okay. Come on, we'd have a lot to say, too. Last but not least, by the way, your Member was completely wrong to quote what was said in the Standard newspaper regarding the criticism of our Government or our authorities, which was properly explained. And he wasn't talking about Janez Janša or the president of the country. So I think he wants to present himself today as a outgoing guardian as completely irrelevant, and I will also say that he is particularly critical of him. Also colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, before the Ombudsman's time you accused him of having a restraining order against his children. Everyone in his family, his wife, his ex-wife, and all the children denied it, you never apologized to him for the lie that made this family suffer so much. Never. Perhaps you too will be able to make such an apology today. I doubt that, but let's just say I asked you to do that. Show something also in this sense self-criticians themselves. But I wanted to talk about health in particular. Unfortunately, there is not much time for content today. And since several times something has been said about judicial delays, I would like to draw attention to something very important, as we have also warned the Minister of Health. These are long-term procedures conducted by the Health Insurance Office in the event of a long-term absence from work, in short, of hospitals that are longer than 30 days, and therefore some people have lost their working relationship. Here are the problems that have been said, mainly due to the lack of doctors who decide in the first degree, then this is the medical commission. However, it is certainly unacceptable for a person in a country to lose his job and lose his job because a certain commission did not decide within eight days. These are examples that are also listed in the material and do not have the right answer to them. What bothers me even more is that, in fact, there is still no law on the protection of patients' rights. This marriage is drawn like the yoke of a snake. It was planned in 1992, and there is no such law. It may not have been that important in previous times, but it is now, in times when wild privatisation is under way both in the area of granting concessions and also in the field of insurance, because there are insurance companies that offer completely peaceful rapid intervention and rapid access to specialists, meaning legal corruption. And there's no such thing as the law. When we prepared him in the LDS, he was repulsively rejected because we will bring him back. Patients in Slovenia are extremely unprotected, no one cares about them, they are without their rights, we do not have the rights of the patient, and I do not see any real will to see this law come to pass in due time. Obviously, though, if someone else who was not of the right kind prepared it, it was, I am sure, amended the law, it was prepared even in the previous term, because we heard several times that it was not, it was prepared, we just upgraded and submitted it, and it was rejected a month ago, and the patients are still without their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. You want a replica, Mr. Pache? You didn't discuss it, so you can't have a replica. Mr Barbara Žgajner Tavš [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Not a replica of myself, a replica of a pay phone in front of me, not a replica of me. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Member of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I assess, Mr Vice-President, that you did not do the right thing, because the colleague mentioned the members of the Slovenian National Party before me. The only way I could get out of this context is because I am a member of the women's sex. But allow me to replicate or, once and for all, hope to clarify, clarify and clarify the question about the question of the Member State which has actually touched Mr Hanžk, but Mr Hanžk is only in the role of the Ombudsman. I estimate that this is one of the most important institutions in our country, which must be represented by a person who is absolutely innocent, one way or another. You know, even in the Slovenian National Party, like the Ombudsman, we do not respond in principle to anonymities. However, as a serious warning came to the parliamentary group, we asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about just how the Government checks the eligibility of candidates for the highest functions in our country. The one who launched the entire media campaign, which began with the emergence of names and surnames in the media, was Mr Hanžek, or one of his wives. So much for the explanation and please, Madam Orzmova, let us be sure not only to represent one position. Look at both sides.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, you have a replica, please. I was told you called.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Yes, of course, at this nonsense we've heard from a colleague in front of me, Mrs. Orazam, about us being in the Slovenian National Party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Mr. Zagorac, I have now taken over the session. I'm not gonna let any of the other parties or third parties get hurt. Please, if you're not insulting and discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	I apologize if I have ever been offensive to you, when I said, Madam President, thank you for your word. She was just as insulting to me as a colleague when she said that I was a guardian or that we accused the Ombudsman in the Slovenian National Party. No, we asked him. But it's better to ask like you've been an ass your whole life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. I'm sorry. I looked over there. You want a replica? There's no replica to the replica. [[...]] [[Advertising in the background]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	No, I've discussed it before. You've been running like this for me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Well, I'm deeply disappointed in the Ombudsman's behaviour. I even wondered if I could change my debate, since I actually only have words of commendation on this report, except maybe two pages, 30 and 31. But it's not that important now, after all, because I think the debate has gone to the other, purely personal side, and here we can see what the other, personal side of the person who performs this function of the guardian who prepared the report that is the bearer of this report is. The fact is that the content side of this report is good for me, I would only point to an example which is on page 30 and 31, which I think requires a certain reflection and points to an approach - and I can argue with all responsibility that history has unfortunately already assessed that such an approach, the substantive approach shown here, is completely wrong and would not want to be repeated in practice. So that no one thinks I'm talking to myself, I'll read it, of course it'll be torn out, but you've all been able to read this report. Responding to the resounding advertising action Gypsy, we have received several expressions of indignation over the contents of posters, on which is a picture of a Roma child and a footnote "if you don't do well, we will give it to the Slovenians". The instigators felt that the ad encouraged intolerance, and they warned that they were hurt, insulted, as Slovenians. It is then imputed, irrespective of the Ombudsman's indiscretion, that is to say that he is not responsible for this decision, we have concluded in the Office that the content of the advertisement is not disputed in the light of the prohibition of Article 63 of the Constitution, because its purpose is quite contrary. He wants to encourage the individual to try to put himself in a position, and so on, so that I will not kill you because you can read it yourself. And if you allow me, because it speaks of Article 63 of the Constitution, it says that there is no constitutional incentive for national, racial, religious and other inequalities, and the spread of national, hair, religious or other hatred and intolerance. Listen, what else is there, "if you don't do well, we're going to give you to the Slovenes," what's more than impatience, not to say anything else, I'm just going to stay here and not be the one who makes the biggest problem. I want to say that right now we had a chance when it turned out, and this ink has barely cooled, and we have not all read how wrong such an approach is that such posters were not harmful within the meaning of Article 63 of the Constitution. I'm going to say that they were inappropriate and that they were impatient, and after all it doesn't matter what the subscriber meant, but what a message people understood -- and that message was negative and that's it. People were bitter, as the watchman wrote, that is true, and they should be removed. In this extremely impatient action, however, the Ombudsman saw no issue. What is happening now is how impatient it is to see how controversial these posters have been. And thank God that the subscriber, after a little writing about it, quickly withdrew those posters, thank God, met him, because he saw where it could lead and how bad the mistake was to trouble him with intolerance and how bad it was and where it led us. Perhaps even so far away, the watchman today had the pleasure of telling the board that what Ambrusa’s natives were doing was a cover-up to the natives. I'm sorry, but that goes beyond all limits. On the other hand, I could say that what we saw today, unfortunately, from the guardian, which surprised me, is quite different from the views that are written. However, the positions are correctly written and I will read to you only one sentence: It is common for the Ombudsman to conduct inquiries in cases of disagreement between the local population in which the findings of the initiatives relate and in those who could influence the solution with their powers. At the same time, we are always trying to look at the wider situation in the affected area, such as the security assessment, environmental issues and the needs of citizens. The solutions are often only a complete picture." That's right. It says here correctly, Mr. Keeper, you wrote correctly, but only how many times you have been with the country, today you have even insulted them to give them a kind of silence to close roads and so on. They too have their constitutional rights, exactly the same. And allow me one more case, and I quote that there will be no misunderstanding, and I'll tell you another date - December 7, 2003. In relation to the deleted, the Ombudsman compared Slovenia with Nazi Germany. Like 1937 in Nazi Germany, etc. When the interlocutor warned you that you were comparing Slovenia with Nazi Germany, you said, "maybe I could also talk about compensation, no one in this law is talking about compensation, and everyone in the court will get compensation when they prove they belong to him, again this big number, I will compare it to Nazi Germany." You admitted that you compared earlier, and now you're going to compare again, "I'm going to compare again." Your Honor! I'm sorry, if we're talking about this, then I would say that such an approach by the Ombudsman would be judged to get his column in the Ombudsman's report and the violation of human rights. Unfortunately, I have to say this because today has also been expressed, first without the microphone, and then repeated with the microphone. Of course, we do not understand many things with colleagues who have a different opinion. Of course not, but that doesn't mean we're going against each other, just like you did the entire parliamentary group. We don't agree with them much either, but we don't. This is perfectly clear, and if we can talk about some kind of silence, then it would be the guardian's silence when compared to Nazi Germany. I'm so sorry, December 7th, 2003. And with this poster action now this cover-up has continued and it has happened that Ambrus and the Ombudsman has instead to meet with the locals or try to win, as it is correctly written in the report - and I agree with you, Mr. Keeper, only to go from words to actions, but also to consult with the locals, and find out whether they are really just closing roads or something like that, or maybe doing something else to make them equal before the law. And that's a typical example of how small grows a lot. A few days ago, all our most visible representatives of the country, the President of the State, the President of the Government, called for reconciliation. And that's right. Everyone did it, and you didn't do it, and today you've been sowing impatience in the session, and today you're sowing it here too. I'm so sorry. Otherwise, you wrote it correctly in the report. And that's what I agree with you, and I'll tell you about the end. The comparison with Heather in any form of comparison with Nazi Germany in any form, is a little too much, is a little too insulting, is too impatient and, I will say, is an unworthy guardian. It's not worth the discussion at all, so I'm not gonna tell you what's really bothering me to say. On the other hand, I am convinced that this was your personal opinion to which you are entitled. The second is, of course, how much you can use this right as a guardian and all Slovenians throw in the same basket and compare Slovenians, Slovenia with Nazi Germany. And once again, this is really the last sentence now; all the most visible representatives of Slovenia are calling for a calming of the situation, and you are still sowing some intolerance and hatred, but you cannot hold back enough to say in at least one word that passions should calm down. You weren't able to say that today. I am sorry, but the report is very good, except for these two sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	The Ombudsman has the floor, Mr Hanžek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	I would ask you to think about distinction, if I say there are some acts and compare them to something else, is something other than comparing Slovenia to Germany. I compared certain acts at the time and compared them now. I said exactly as much if in the same problem that we are talking about today when I advocated that there could not be a referendum on human rights, that is probably what we all agree on in the case of the Slovenians in Austria. We're all against Haider or anyone holding a referendum, or the Slovenians belonging to those rights. I spoke before that, and I wanted to illustrate what it meant, and I said something. I'll cross-reference it again, compare it to action. I didn't talk about the nation, and so on, let's let these things be separated once we speak. It was obvious to me that I was not patient, that it was not in this interview, and so on, I did not join the calls of tolerance. For five years, I've been talking here all the time about tolerance, and I've been listening to them every time, even the fact that I keep just talking about tolerance, that it's a little wrong and so on. I don't know so fast to the new ones, I'd say, political ideas or "main stream" to join that moment when the president says, but I'm just gonna say it all of a sudden again. I say the same thing all the time, but I will still say what I think, but I will also say intolerance, especially intolerance to intolerance, is a legitimate way of communicating. Here, too, that will not be wrong, I do not use the word racist offensively, but just as a professional expression for someone who thinks something, it means that when he says that he would not go with a black man for coffee or a variety of other statements that speak of the worth or inferiority of a nation. This is what a racist is called in the professional term, and I use it, no offense, but it is a fact, so I haven't changed my mind yet. By comparing events extremely, those we saw at the time and at the time are roughly similar to us, because I'm not saying that everything is the same, but there are some things. Back then, logs and trees fell across the road so that another nation would not live near one nation, and the police were powerless and so on. Now the images are about the same, and that's why I compared them to a certain extent. As for why I didn't go to Ambrus, I said a few times that we didn't get the initiative, Mrs Tavš said earlier about how the law, what the initiative must be, I didn't write the law, but the National Assembly accepted it, I signed it there to respect it. I even have to say that we may sometimes violate it in this way, even if we get some specific information from an anonymous initiative, but we are looking into this specific information, but it must be at least a bit of a tangible thing, so that we can ask someone something. But when things started to happen in Ambrus like they did, and I don't see the slightest reason to go there, it's a matter of government, executive power and everything else to do. The Ombudsman constantly warned about what could happen, especially if some almost every day had a five-minute speech until recently, where they spoke about the crime of the Roma and so flatly other nations, then of course this led to the things that had happened. For once that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Dear Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Guardian and their Group! I will, however, try to return the debate to the 2005 report. What we were listening to today, at least 70% of all talk, was actually about recent events when Minister Mate put out the fire with gasoline to close the matter briefly. I am particularly interested in those things that talk about the gap between laws, between the Constitution and everyday life, because this is what the Ombudsman's report is talking about and, of course, notes that things are not what they should be. Perhaps the Ombudsman is not appointed to sing us glory, and to the Assembly and to the Government and to the judicial branches of government, but to set a mirror as smooth as possible, it is said that we see ourselves in it as we really are. Now, if we don't like it, it's not the fault or the mirror or the one that sets it up, but we're obviously dissatisfied with ourselves. Of course, that's what you know. This is also known when we pour our intolerances, hatreds and wraths against others, once upon a time that we do not like, on the other hand, once upon a opposing party, once upon a different nation, once upon a people living in different civil frameworks. As far as I'm concerned, I have to say, I'm satisfied, as many people have said before me, that they're pleased, but that, of course, what things are bothering them. As far as it seemed from all of this storytelling, they were not really disturbed by the report, but they were slightly confused by the reality and the reporting of this reality. In short, Mr Hanžek has played a positive role by the Ombudsman in all these years and has done it well if we look back at all the reports. And to all those who doubt that I should say that none of the governments was very pleased with his report, none of them had acclamation and never had a standing applause in the National Assembly, of any government. So he did a good job, because his task is not only to talk about positive solutions and about how good we are, good and good and "oh" at all, but, above all, to say what is wrong. If human rights such as some universal quality are violated, it is also right to present them to the foreign public. At times, though, it is good for someone from outside to look at us from a distance and to tell us about us with a bitter and bitter temper; I think it is nothing bad. I think the role of the guardian and the reports he writes is to somehow characterise the bad conscience that we can have on our own. These tensions, coalition ones, have, of course, always been at the Ombudsman's reports, in the previous coalition, in the previous term and in the present, and this is actually good. That is why I think that this report should be supported. However, I hope that this transfer of all 30 candidates for the new guardian or guardian of human rights will be seen around what awaits them every year. About Ambrus and all those things that got in a fight, and they totally got into it, and that's it. First, hate speech creates animosity, hostile mood creates hostile acts. And if, of course, it burns, quietly or out loud, then it comes to that. This is not the responsibility of the one who draws attention to what is happening, but of the responsibility of the one who is causing it. Minister Mate took into his hands the executive command at the beginning of this and, of course, with each of the following actions, he put gasoline on this fire; now let others do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, the Ombudsman! When we read the Ombudsman’s report each year and make an analysis and review, and then the National Assembly makes recommendations to help us to be aware of the extent to which, to what extent, and at what speed, the State authorities are responding to our recommendations. I would touch only one area which speaks of the fact that the response of certain authorities is of course very modest, slow and, of course, does not contribute to the speedy resolution of people's problems. Whether that is why there is a lack of professional ability, a lack of will or anything else, of course I expect government representatives to be able to respond. I would only touch on a certain area, this is the area of health, which, according to the report we discussed last year, i.e. in the recommendations to the 10th Regular Report, has written down approximately the same content as that of the National Assembly's Home Commission in the proposal. I would like to point out here only two recommendations, namely that the Government is called upon to ensure the legal regulation of the patient's rights as soon as possible; and another recommendation that the Government or the competent ministry should intervene as soon as possible in the examination and adoption of the Mental Health Act. Why should these two contents be discussed in a special way? These two contents should also be discussed in view of the credibility of the statements made here, in this space or in other places, by those responsible for the development of health policy, namely the Minister, State Secretary and other High Representatives, who have made a number of promises in the past. I will only quote here the promises made by the minister, Dr. Bručan, in the consideration of the 10th periodic report, which spoke of the deadline for the submission of the legal text of the regulation of patients' rights at the end of 2005 or at what date. Much has already been said here today, without this text being absent, there was no willingness on the part of the government and this coalition to try to upgrade the text that dealt with this issue by a group of opposition Members, and to help solve the problems that people have every day because there is no such legislation. Here I would also like to draw attention to the warning that we can see here again on page 12 in the report, that there is a very pressing problem of disregarding the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and here the content of the unadopted Law on Mental Health, which, at the same time last year's hearing, the Minister made it clear that the text is in the final stage of preparation, and he promises to come shortly to the hearing. The year has passed, so the constitutionally unresolved issue remains unregulated in advance and, of course, the promises made by the most responsible authorities, namely the Minister of Health, whose competence should be to regulate this issue, of course, the dead letters remain on paper. And this is the content that speaks of the quality of this report, which constantly and always reminds of those areas that are not regulated and regulated too slowly and, on the other hand, make it very difficult to regulate rights in people's everyday lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u77	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to turn the debate in this direction to discuss the Ombudsman's report. I would like to express very briefly my belief that the report is very correct and in this sense it is also very valuable, especially for the legislator, because the Ombudsman in this report is very systematic in addressing those areas where he sees human rights violations and also indicates how this legislative body should adopt and correct or amend laws. Of course, he also tells the Government, which is mainly the proponent of the relevant laws, which direction these laws should be drawn up. However, it is also a warning that is as important to me as you would, a lawyer. In fact, this National Assembly is often very fast and repetitively changing individual laws; this may be a problem. For the last time, let's say we were talking about bringing retired judges back to work as judges, while not only did a whole series of laws change once, for example. This is a problem, and I think that the Government and the National Assembly should conclude that when we go into amending a law, we should think about these changes, not that we are witnessing that we continue to consider individual laws or amendments to laws in a fast procedure, following a reduced procedure, and that we are also witnessing that we have already changed some laws in this term of two years. I think that we should somehow learn from this that this is not appropriate and that this is not the right approach for the legislator. Otherwise, we have witnessed in this debate today some of the gentleness of some of our fellow Members, saying that we are mildly sensitive in the wrong direction. Indeed, the Ombudsman’s conduct has been problematic, informing the foreign and international community of what is happening in our area of human rights and what is going on wrong. As for the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, I would make a completely different assessment, which would be very wrong if the Ombudsman did not inform the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, because the Council of Europe is not a foreign, is our organisation, we are members of this organisation, we in this country and in the National Assembly have also ratified a number of international legal acts on the basis of which this Commissioner of the Council of Europe works for human rights, and we cannot see it this way. However, it was not to be seen as being mild in the other direction when Minister Virant said that the Constitutional Court would judge or would not be able to judge that there was no principle of paying judges after work [[..]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u79	Mr State Secretary, Zinrajh, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Mr and Assistants of the Ombudsman, Dear Fellows, Fellow Members! I think it is good to answer the question and the thought of Mr Školč, which concerns the so-called deleted and constitutional matter that we are preparing at the internal ministry; perhaps a slightly longer answer. In December 2005, the Ministry of the Interior sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a constitutional law supplementing the constitutional law on the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which complements Article 13, stipulates that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are former SFRJ, who had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the day of plebiscite 23.12.1990 and who were actually living here, equal in rights and duties with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, except in the case of the purchase of immovable property, until the provisions of the Aliens Act entered into force for them. The proposal for a constitutional law drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior regulates the granting of a permanent residence permit for those nationals of other successor countries of the former SFRY who do not yet have a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia, the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit for minors living in Slovenia from birth, and the conditions under which permits for the permanent residence of nationals of other Member States may also be issued in return. The proposal for a constitutional law is also governed by the institute of actual continuous life, which has been pointed out by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as by exceptions which, despite the actual absence from the Republic of Slovenia, enable foreigners to obtain a permanent residence permit. It shall also regulate the right to compensation in cases where the beneficiary has suffered injury as a result of the unlawful conduct of an official or body. At its 53rd meeting in December 2005, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision deferring the consideration of the proposed constitutional law and imposing on the Ministry of Interior to further harmonise the proposal. I must say that the coordination has taken place since this deadline. The Minister of the Interior had some consultations and one interview with the honourable Member, Mr Školč, but, as you know, the constitutional law requires a two-thirds majority in Parliament and, as long as this consensus is not available, discussions and negotiations are still under way. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members, the Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about respect for human rights or the Ombudsman's annual report, in which I must say that it is actually improving during his term of office and that the handicap of these criteria is partially corrected in addressing human rights in relation to different groups. Indeed, the problem of double criteria exists all these years, and in some ways the Ombudsman confirmed it himself when he replied earlier when he said that he was saying the same thing through. I attach this to him, but the problem is, of course, he didn't know how to be politically and supervisoryly neutral in all these years. Of course, it is difficult to be supervisoryly neutral, but it is political that everyone in such a function should concentrate so much that political references do not appear outside. Speaking of double-criminal problems, perhaps even more so if I had noticed earlier with my colleague Bebler. In fact, when it supported the Ombudsman's reporting to the Human Rights Council Commissioner, I recalled the case when Mr Bučar spoke in the old regime either to the Council of Europe or to the European Parliament and called on the European institutions not to lend credit to the then decomposing Yugoslavia because it is totalitarian. Thus, there was a high 'functioning' also in the world, I think at that time, for human rights and in the socialist relationship, and from there came strong attacks on Mr Butcher at that time. I remind you of these double standards, the double morality that is still here. At that time, we had no independent country of Slovenia, and this was all the more unnecessary. With regard to the problem of double criteria, it is also related to the fact that progress has been made in the report, of course, to the Ombudsman's question: "Why couldn't I have been able to resist in his own report even from his own misbehaviour, when today there was so much talk about indignity to the dead, to the wife of the insult which he uttered with that well-known statement about Trobce's furnace?" Why don't you build yourself up when you talk about the ethics of public speaking, about the impatient speech, why, as an example, that a person can improve himself, he wouldn't go in there alone in this report. Would his crown have fallen so terribly when others were being treated? Indeed, of this dignity to the dead, to the dead and to the respect of the good name of the dead, in all these years I do not recall that in these reports it would be a serious warning that those who speak of the count of bones are cruelly insulted, cruelly insulted by the deaths that have lost their lives in the worst crime in Slovenia. Nor do I remember the Ombudsman seeking to clear up this crime of these war crimes, a genocide in Slovenia. Now this question is again up to date, wherever they open the highway or whenever this problem opens, and we still have insults about counting the bones. I believe that an institution such as the Ombudsman, which should be a moral institution in this area, must once publicly confirm that this is unacceptable. All of this seems to be universal human rights, and I from last year, that there will be no mistake - also apply to public persons. I remember one case where I'm sure it's public, but it's not from our kind of political bloc, but somewhere, I think it's a secret tracking and a secret recording, and I don't remember any warning. And you have to do whatever it takes. Finally, we will ask because there is now so much talk about the Roma, the Ambrus case and so on, and I wonder whether the Ombudsman will be critical of the statement of a fellow Member who is not here today, Mr Weber, that we must go to barricades that have shown more intolerance to the Roma than to the bears present there in his congregation. And, of course, with regard to these Roma, I'm going to be very direct, I'm going to be from a journalist, someone from the media, I've heard a note that this Sunday's return of the Roma went back to the attempt to return to Ambrus, to whisper human rights to the Ombudsman. Let him directly answer whether there is any truth to this, because it was a drastic dangerous send-off, drastic. Someone who whispered was impatient in Slovenia, for it was easy to expect those who encouraged them to face great problems; and with extreme efforts it was prevented worse than it had developed. And of course that's the question, because we're here, very much in place to ask that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u83	Mr. Hanzek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u84	Because I have very little time. I didn't whisper to anyone because I didn't know them, so I don't know why I would whisper to go back; if anyone thought of me, I didn't know it was supposed to be me. Here, let me answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u85	Mr Secretary of State has the floor, mag. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much for the words, Mr President, the honourable assembly. Several times the issue of the accessibility of dwellings has been mentioned and I would therefore like to highlight our approach to this issue. At the Ministry of Environment and Space last year, we joined the system-wide solution to this issue because the vicious circle we talked about and we agree that housing prices are too high on one side, so there is no interest in the construction of so-called non-profit apartments. On the other hand, because of high prices, the rents are so high and subsidisation is absolutely necessary and always too low. Therefore, our basic starting point with regard to the opportunities we have, within the framework of the financial options and records that are available and will be even better each time in the following year, in particular in the form of a normative basis that will enable municipalities to manage their premises comprehensively and systematically and thus provide sufficient real estate to enable housing. The Spatial Planning Act is in Parliament and all procedures that will allow for a faster realization of these intentions are rationalised to a minimum. At the same time, this law has to a large extent transferred the full burden of response to the state authorities and now we have the reverse burden if the state does not respond, meaning it agrees with the municipal proposals. In short, we have the possibility, systematically, that in a very short period of time, municipalities will fully manage their premises, including housing. Secondly, the issue of land is more important. The records of State land shall be supplemented. In the framework of the opportunities we have, we have provided approximately so much land in Ljubljana with an environment that in Ljubljana, with its surroundings over the next few years, we can build about 5,000 apartments on state land. And also through the records of the Ministry of Public Administration and the records that will be generated on the basis of the census, these records will be complete by the end of the year. With this, we can expect to receive and have an even greater number of state land that will allow for cheap construction by the Housing Fund and thus have an impact on the price of housing in general. Secondly, the law, which is also of systemic importance, was last week, is the Public Procurement Act, which strictly distinguishes design from construction, which necessarily requires separation of contract to assemblies and which requires urgent competition when it comes to housing issues. In short, under this instrument, the Housing Fund has also been given the possibility of increasing competitiveness in this area and thus reducing prices. In short, our goal is to recapitalise the Housing Fund with the available land fund, which will be able to build cheaply on its land and lead investments in a competitive direction and thereby bring down the price of all apartments and which will also entail significantly more rental apartments, significantly more opportunities and accessibility in the market. In short, the instruments we have embarked on are heading towards the normalisation of the market system, of course through intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Ombudsman's report concerns several areas of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. At the Ministry, we have examined all the Ombudsman's findings in detail and have also prepared answers. Most of all, even from your discussions, it was the issue of domestic violence and human rights protection. In this mandate, the government has focused on the protection of children's rights and domestic violence, and has already taken a number of measures to prevent domestic violence. She established twelve intervention services, seven crisis centres, twelve coordinators at the Social Work Centre, and also this year this April introduced a telephone for children called Peter Klepc’s phone, which works 24 hours a year and all days a year and is competent to inform or listen to child’s violence problems. In this regard, we also issued a notebook and sent it to all primary schools to learn how violence occurs or how to react if they are victims of violence themselves. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is also leading an active policy on the financing of NGOs, which are also involved in violence programmes and assistance to children in distress, and we are still planning to complement these activities as they constitute an additional network of social protection institutions. In the area of domestic violence, we are also preparing a specific chapter in the Code relating to protection against domestic violence. Today, it has already been mentioned that a law on domestic violence has been prepared in the former government. We have examined this law carefully, but this law only referred to the protection of adults and the expulsion of children. In this chapter, the family code, we deal with all family members, including children, because we also know that children are the most common victims of domestic violence. The previous law, which was prepared, contained numerous, including legal irregularities, as it stipulated or listed crimes. As we know, crimes can only be regulated in a system law or in a criminal code where all crimes are codified and therefore this law was unacceptable. As I said before, in the preparation of the family code, we gave a special chapter on the protection of violence in the family, where we relate the corporal punishment of children, as well as a special chapter on the protection of children. The practice so far has shown that children's advocates are urgently needed because the child's trustee has not come to life in practice. We prepared the text with the Office of the Ombudsman. We believe, however, that there should also be support at the Faculty of Social Work for a specific programme or department, where children should be trained as advocates of children who would participate in all processes where the child is involved. At the Ministry, we have also advocated the resolution of those matters in which the child acts as a party, as a priority, so that we have no more backlogs where the child takes part as a party in the process. However, we are also preparing national guidelines to prevent domestic violence, where we are talking mainly about preventive measures, because our aim is to prevent violence and thus indirectly reduce the incidence of domestic violence and society in general. Ensure the coordinated functioning of competent authorities and sanction those who do not perform their duties, and in particular educate young people about their rights and knowledge of life [[...]] [[The phone vibrating.]] in a society free of violence. [[...]] Ensure the protection of children and adults in particular in reporting and protecting their integrity in the context of violent events. Then there was also talk about working relationships. As you know, the Labour Relations Act has not been amended yet. Negotiations are under way and the Ministry is endeavouring to maintain or point out violations in relation to working relations, as the Labour Inspectorate also reminds us. In this context, we have also proposed in the Labour Relations Act extending powers or acting on inspections for work, so that in the event of a violation of the suspension of the regression or reimbursement of labour costs, this would be the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate to react as quickly as possible or to the affected worker to his or her rights, since this now falls within the jurisdiction of the judiciary and we know that these proceedings are taking place for a long time. With regard to pension and disability insurance, the Government is committed to establishing as soon as possible a common register of accrued and paid contributions to pension and disability insurance. Records or controls of contributions paid or paid by payers for each insured person will be provided or established in 2008 in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance. However, it should also be noted in Article 192 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which expressly provides that "if insurance or data cannot be determined on the basis of the records of the insurance institution, contributions to compulsory insurance shall be considered to have been paid." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Well, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior has already explained a number of procedural matters concerning the issue of so-called deleted procedures. Perhaps just once again, the matter will be perfectly clear as to the position of the government here. We are prepared by law, and we think it is right to correct situations and correct injustices in cases where these injustices have occurred in specific cases. All those who had permanent residence in Slovenia on the day of plebiscite had the opportunity to reach the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. As a matter of fact, citizenship could be taken off the shelf, and there were no special conditions for it. Those who did not choose to acquire citizenship became foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia on a certain date. And as foreigners, they had every opportunity to regulate their foreign status, which means permanent residence status. Those who wanted to have it done, the administration arranged it for them. Those who did not want to do so, of course, did not and tried to enforce it only materially, substantially later. And even those who tried to enforce this materially later could have done so because later legislation had enabled them to do so. We will not agree, however, that those who do not want or try to settle their status will be recognized back. This would be a mockery of all those citizens in Slovenia who play by the rules. The other thing I would like to say is that I very much welcome and appreciate the efforts of the Ombudsman and his office when it comes to interventions in the public administration and in the general public administration. The Ombudsman has helped to resolve many specific situations when the administrative authorities have reacted too bureaucraticly to certain matters, togo, arrogantly or when they have resolved matters over time. In this sense, I have always understood the Ombudsman's office as a partner in the joint effort to improve public administration. The government in this area is doing a lot of work. We think that a lot of things have moved, we are systematically cleaning up old rules of bureaucratic barriers, we are systematically preventing new bureaucratic obstacles, over 70 concrete simplifications have already been realized and we have a number of new ones in the programme. And this is a concrete simplification: from the fact that, let's say, a single entrepreneur doesn't have to go to five institutions and pay a tax five times, but it can all be arranged in one place and free of charge when he starts doing business - we also intend to extend it to companies - to the fact that he has already abolished the 2008 tax returns - huge savings and simplifications for taxpayers on the one hand and for taxation on the other. And we could count it. Of course, we have a particularly strong response to the Ministry of Public Administration, which is the parent area, when individual administrations of Togo are arrogant and bureaucratic towards the parties. Let there be a recent complication with the employment agency of the school case, as we will also do in the future. If bureaucracy acts in a way that arrogantly rejects applicants for any right because they do not bring some data documents that the authority can obtain on its own, we will always react in the same way. That was, like, a typical school case, how not to work. That's what this is about. On several occasions, however, I would suggest that we invest energy in the search for solutions, because in this segment of solving this problem, I think that everyone would quickly agree that the country has slept and slept under both previous governments and the present, when it comes to solving, for example, illegal Roma settlements, particularly when it comes to solving illegal Roma settlements, and that these events have now warned that the country will also have to move forward in this area. Now I think it's the smartest and best thing for everyone to focus energy on solving problems, and maybe later on we'll argue about who's more and who's less guilty. Now this problem needs to be solved. I personally believe that this movement or relocation of the Roma family was the only option at a given time, and nothing can tell what would have happened if this move had not occurred, what kind of accident could have occurred. No one can say for sure. It may have been a preventable accident, and blood transfusions may have been prevented, so it must have been the only possible moment. And, of course, as it is said, it is necessary to focus on finding a solution, looking for a new location where the Roma family can arrange for legal stay, because there is an illegal, illegal situation in the existing location and there is no legalisation of this settlement and there is also a central problem. This call for constructive solutions especially applies to mayors and, of course, to all the parliamentary groups you have in your midst, the mayors can do much to solve this problem, not by calling for barricades, but by helping to find a location where it will be possible to legally regulate the stay of the Roma family.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Matjaž Hanžek, distinguished Mr Tone Dolčič and Jernej Rovšek! Of the three of you, a short term will expire and allow me to thank you at the beginning of my debate for the work you have done in your mandate, because I have been given the opportunity to meet you on the occasion of the reports. If I have counted correctly, there have been 7 regular reports - Mr Hanžek, because two more are presented in return - and three special reports. I would also like the future Ombudsman or the Ombudsman to be able to sign up to the Slovenian public with such remarkable moves, although some of them have polarized the public as you have. Mr Dolčič, you will be on this post for some time, and I would like to express my concern right here. Article 15 of the Law on the Ombudsman states that the Ombudsman has at least 2 and a maximum of 4 deputies. Following the decision of the National Assembly with a suitably prepared atmosphere, two candidates for the Deputy Ombudsman, who had been established by experts in international circles, did not obtain their consent, and I regret this once again. Just as I regret that, as a rule, it happens that, in all those subjects which are for this national assembly, such as polarising the opposition and coalition, one of the vice-presidents is chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, who is always able to further encourage this polarisation. Not only did I once ask the President of the National Assembly to make commitments so that we could avoid them, but he said that it was a coincidence that he wanted them to. Well, what were all these examples - and I am sure that Mr Hanžek will do some more analysis on this, where other public manifestations of the work of the Ombudsman and of the debate on discrimination have also done something similar. Now let me go to the report and quote 116 pages from the Ombudsman, who answers the question of when we are responding publicly. And I listed 22 special occasions in which the Ombudsman, here mentioned, specifically responded, but here he also wrote in this part, "the Ombudsman gives an opinion on individual events in different forms, most often in response to the questions of journalists, these are rarely separate statements, as a rule when some state authority was involved in the event. In short, each case is decided individually whether we will respond publicly or we will speak publicly about a particular case and whether we will give a public warning." In this part of the Ombudsman also points out that it is necessary to distinguish between when it is being advertised as Matjaž Hanžek and when it is being advertised as a representative of the institution. However, I would like to answer my fellow Member, Mr Zammernik, who, although in the opinion of the Group of Members, asked himself, I hope that this was a rhetorical question why the President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities in the report also mentioned what is relevant to the Commission and is recorded in the report. Firstly, in the report, I can only report on what was on the committee's speech and on what upsets you and what you are wondering, there was no talk on the committee. However, we discussed this problem at least twice on the committee. They had the same position at the time, a unanimous position, and therefore, while the Ombudsman wrote in the report that he did not agree with the way the Commission reacted, it seems quite normal and I take this as he wrote down all the other comments and all the other actions. Among other things, he praised the Commission in its report, but this is probably not the subject of this debate. It was the initiative of the Police Union, which introduced an initiative to amend the last paragraph of Article 42 of the Constitution, which states: "Instructive members of the defence forces and the police cannot be members of political parties. This was a letter addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and our Commission was given this letter in knowledge and therefore we should not have to consider it a petition, but we talked about it because we wanted to get some answers from the Commission on how the Commission should react to petitions and human rights in individual procedures. And then, Mr Zammernik, I hope that you will recall that the answer that the professional service provided to the police union, in which the police union informed that it had given the initiative to the Constitutional Commission, was then supported or agreed with by everyone on the committee. But we agreed to ask that we would do more and we did. We have ordered a comparative review of how the Commission works for petitions in other institutions, and we have asked the parliamentary groups whether they see that the Commission's work on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities should be managed differently. And I must say, with the exception of the two parliamentary groups, this is the Group of the Social Democrats and the LDS Club of the Member States, no other Group of Members responded to the initiative. And the Commission then decided that the initiatives would be dealt with in the same way as before, and this was also decided unanimously at the beginning of the Commission's work, which means that we did nothing as members of the Commission at that time without the Commission needing or drawing up rules of procedure on the functioning of the Commission, or that even a specific law would be required for the functioning of the Commission for petitions. So much so that we know what hasn't been reported. As it is said, once again, I point out that there was no debate on this issue on the Commission at the time we discussed the report and that is why I did not report. Otherwise, in the Ombudsman’s report and with our literature experts, I would like to express my view that some of the eyewitnesses seem to me to be like John Cankar, who once wrote that he was painting the topic in order for his eyes to become more engrossed in light. Therefore, the warning of violations has also pointed out that we are becoming increasingly sensitive to human rights violations, that we are becoming increasingly aware and that as regards the human rights awareness programme, I must say that the Ombudsman has previously reported this in his report. And I would like to remind you that the Ombudsman called on the 9th report to establish a coalition to establish zero tolerance for violence against children. You see, if we are aware of these things, then we are also a little more critical of what we have done and what has ever been written down, what we have not accepted or realized. Well, I also have with me, for example, recommendations for the 9th Annual Report of the Ombudsman, where in chapter 9 on the protection of children's rights and the violence in the family of talking about many things, which has now been said that it has not happened or that one group has the right to believe that it has only happened with her help but not before. However, I think - so, here are the speeches about specialized courts, the departments of the courts, the representative - or now the representative or the advocate of children's rights or the commissioner, these are all the terms each of them has a special meaning. However, the area of children's rights has received special attention, just as it can be argued that violence against women has in fact been the reason why we started to amend some other legislation, because we considered that if a woman is a victim of violence in particular in the family, children are particularly victims of it, and that this requires directing steps first towards those who can then provide security to others. Again, thank you! Goodbye!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u93	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. For starters, unlike some of my opposition colleagues, the distinguished Lord of the Guardian, I will not say thank you, because I feel that everyone who takes a job, a certain function, must do this function and work well, conscientiously and in accordance with the law. That's why I'm not gonna say thank you because I think it's kind of weird. I would understand if someone said to you, "Mr. Keeper, congratulations!" Then I would have understood that, because it would have meant that you were doing well. But if someone says "thank you for working," it's like we didn't find anyone else, and we took you away, so thank you for six years. That's why I'm not going to say thank you, because I think it's entirely fitting that you've been doing your job for six years, just like you've been doing it. Today we spent about 4 hours and a few minutes talking about a bureaucrat who sometimes has powers, but sometimes does not have those powers; depending on how the wind blows. You know, when it comes to solving specific cases, you don't have any, then you can warn. But when it comes to the defamation of laws proposed by opposition parties or, in particular, the Slovenian National Party, then you have the power to speak on a proposal, on a working draft law you have not even seen. I agree with that part of the report when you state that the law must apply to all the same. I completely agree, but I don't understand then, but I really don't understand why some citizens in this country have some higher privileges outside the legal framework. When we talk about paying for water, some people don't need it, and you take their side. When we talk about hate speech, you read it all on average, however it applies, however it pleases you, when it comes to hate speech, at least for me, for me personally for the hateful speech to this country, to this country, to the country that gives you bread and mucks it abroad, and then it's not a hate speech, but then it's a warning. A warning that you have robbed a million 920 thousand Slovenians and you saved 25 of them. But you saved 25 of them, but then there's no hate speech, and then there's a warning. When we protect the rest of the millions and so many of the Slovenians, you say that we speak hostilely; when we try to make the law in this country truly apply to everyone and also to the Gypsies, then you say that we speak hostilely. That's not true! We're just asking the same thing! If I touch a little more of the report; you know, if I compare it with the others you have given, I don't see any significant differences in it. Every year you remind yourself of the same mistakes. It's one thing, I'm going to say, such an ongoing matter that the former government couldn't handle, this is at least a little blink in this area, but it's more or less the same problems. One of these problems that you are mentioning is the problem of deleted, so-called deleted ones who have decided to pay media attention after four years of their illegal tour across Europe, such as the trip from Ljubljana to Brussels, and in the meantime two other European capitals will look at it. As far as you really believe the so-called deleted is concerned, then tell me what documents they're traveling with. Are they traveling with your authority perhaps? I don't know. These are people who have been erased, who have no rights, who do not have documents, but who go on their journey. Otherwise, I can't explain pictures from the media, from a daily newspaper where they're photographed with cameras and video cameras. They'll probably record it, I don't know the Eiffel Tower in Paris, but something else in Rome to get to Brussels later. And those are the ones you put away in your report. This minority that doesn't have any rights, you keep it quiet, but they travel. They travel freely across Europe, and therefore I see no reason why we call them erased. And one more thing. No one has touched on the amendments of the honourable colleagues of the Social Democrats Group in their deliberations. Three years ago, as much as any parliamentary group that worked in the opposition at the time would have proposed such amendments, we would have been unserious. For what? For what? For what? For what? For what? Let me read you just one, say the fourth: let the government settle the situation of the deleted. Isn't that what I'm going to say, the constitutional task and the government's legal task? Are these amendments or what? These are the amendments? "The government should establish a long-term strategy for Roma inclusion in society." It's a joke, it's a joke, it's a cover-up for those who should have arranged it a while ago, and you didn't do it. This is a mockery of this congregation, of this government, and not least of all of the respected Ombudsman, for he was not able to write it himself. And the things you've written as conclusions or as initiatives to the Government in your report - you know, because this has to be respected by the constitution and the law anyway. Take a look at the three reports back, and you will see that you wrote the same, because you do not do anything else than you did in your first year, and you have already taken the report from the guardian who was before you for the first year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u95	Mr. Mirko Zamernik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, now, if we thank you, we don't thank you, I'll thank my colleague Pate for the highlight she gave me in her last performance. I am pleased that with such a multitude of words you have gone on a purely innocent rhetorical issue, as you have marked it yourself, and have shown very clearly how we know on a purely innocent matter to complicate it, to wrap it up in a very wide palette, and I am sure that it was also done at the social work centre, which I mentioned earlier, where the old parents did not want to assign the child who lost the parents. The bureaucrat finds in the process - of course I do not generalise, but only some, and this was today's purpose, to improve these matters - a million legal, sub-marital and non-legislative, and I do not know what regulations yet to justify its misbehaviour. I am convinced that the same is done by a judge whose guardian has no doubt found that this is an unnecessary negligence that should not happen to a judge who is conscientiously fulfilling his obligations. I'm sure this judge can find hundreds of rules to justify his actions. And the purpose of the government and all of us together must be not to justify our actions or actions for which we are all jointly responsible, but to deal with them as we do, to settle me, it was written in the Ombudsman's report in the government's response report; it is said that the government has responded clearly, comprehensively and by action. That was today's purpose. I don't know, it seems very funny to the deputies right now, but I don't see what would be so funny in this matter if we all had the goal of doing what I was also asking rhetorically at the beginning of my performance on behalf of the Group of Members, that the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute was designed to improve things in the country. And that is why I will say one last thing; if we don't step together and realize something that is in this House, I don't think it's been said I don't know if it's ever happened. I will use the words of my fellow Member, with whom I have not always agreed in all my actions, perhaps it will surprise you who I have in mind, a fellow Member who is no longer among us, Mr Rupar. I think that for the first time on the political side, something has been said in public under which I am happy to sign. At the last encounter he had, he said that if a person throws bad things under him, he gets five times back, or if you throw good, or ten times, or even vice versa. And let's, please, realize this, all together: position, opposition, all peace institutions - what we're going to sow, we're going to want to, if we're going to sow the wind, we're going to want a storm. And let's see how many concrete cases we have in our lives as individuals or if you want, political parties. Ten years ago, it was impossible to imagine that one of the leading parties from then could get along nicely because of their nonchalant behavior - and this happened. I believe that it will happen again if we do not learn anything from this experience, so this kind of purpose and such efforts towards improving the situation in the country do not seem ridiculous and, as I said before, on behalf of the Group of Members, I support all activities to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. With this, the round of debaters is exhausted. Before we come to a decision or debate on the amendments, I ask the representatives of the Government and the Ombudsman if he wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Hanzek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u98	Yes, I will be very brief and I would like to thank everyone for today's debate, for most of the things I have already answered from the front, some of them left. All these ideas, criticisms, and so on, we will be happy, as of course, to take into account the report we are already writing. We hope that the report will be completed by the time my mandate expires - so that we can also satisfy the wish without amending the law, I think that Mr Pukšič, that the report will be made soon after the new year. This is going to be very hard because we're going to be without three deputies, but we're going to try to do it, and hopefully it's going to be for the one or the one who's going to inherit this town and for the next guardians, some orientation for the next. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the report and on the proposals for recommendations. We are here to discuss the amendments tabled to the proposals for recommendations, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 27.11.2006. I am putting to the debate chapter 1 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I estimate that no, so I am concluding the debate on Chapter 1. I am putting to the debate chapter 2 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? I find that no, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Chapter 2. I am putting to the debate Chapter 5 and the two amendments of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 11 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments and recommendations in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government and also the Ombudsman, Mr Hanzk. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. At its 48th meeting on 8 November 2006, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to decide again before declaring the law on amendments to the Act on the organisation and financing of education and education. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request. Mr. Zoltan Jan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the legislative process and made a number of comments on the law that we are opposed to today. Indeed, in this process, as you could see from the report, we were largely rejected by the argument that these issues would be resolved after the law was re-examined and new amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education are already being prepared. What is crucial and most important is that this is an important area, because it is known that the area of education and education is the most important resource in the country, that it encompasses a large population and that it is more important than Dars, railways and so on. It is also known from all public debates and debates that everything has then focused on the problem of the composition of schools and educational organisations. On the one hand, the proposaler indicated how the ministry was to withdraw from the appointment process, but of course there was a wide range of distortions. Above all, this influence of the Minister in secondary schools remains very large and has not been reduced at all. A few downgraded in primary schools. Nor did the balance happen as it appears in the public and as it is in the debates in the National Assembly. It's not just that we don't have single schools, it's that we also have schools. What is crucial is the fact that changing the composition of the school world goes in some direction that we cannot support in any way, and I am sure it also raises concerns for you. It is a matter of the fact that these sacred schools have so far not been making any special problems and that there are no signs that any radical change would be necessary here. The second reason is that this change is opposed by 21,000 out of 35,000 employees in this area. If they're not important arguments! Then come various things, different distortions and distortions. Among others, what are the founder’s rights and what is ownership and, of course, the responsibility of the members of the world. The fact is that a member of the world is not directly, not criminally, not disciplinaryly, not morally responsible, to a greater moral character, to the one he appointed, while the teacher is responsible for his work, and even if the cook is, there is some sort of poisoning in the kitchen, there is also criminal responsibility. It is therefore a matter of transferring responsibility and decision-making to someone who is not directly responsible for these competences. This is very important and, of course, there is another thing in the background. The Director shall unite in person [[?]] the management and professional functions and is also the second-degree body in the complaint. If it is perfectly clear to us in hospitals that anyone can run a hospital, then it is a little less obvious here at school, obviously. True, there are provisions of law - organisations that restrict here, but by this law, this amendment opens the way for the direct influence of political authorities on the appointment of a director. With this, this city becomes a reward for certain services and becomes what is crucial, much less important. There were no other reasons more important when we reviewed the transcripts of your debate, but there were no specific objections. The key question is whether there is a need to change something that has worked well so far and these changes are opposed by the vast majority of employees. Similar cultural, health and science interventions have shown that previous solutions have been better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The requirement is to treat the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Mag. Branku Grims to present the committee's report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, I'll get everyone a very nice greeting. At its 13th urgent meeting on 15 November 2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture, Education and Sport addressed the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia to re-decision on this law. The Committee was informed of both the views of the Council of State and the various institutions, including the union, and the union representative also took part and presented his arguments there further. In particular, the representatives of the opposition challenged the law in view of the fact that the composition so far was appropriate, that this worked well and that, according to the legislation currently in force, the composition of the new law would be unbalanced and would likely allow for greater policy influence, particularly with regard to the appointment of directors. And they also warned that they would expect full coordination with the social partners before such a change of law was introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly. The representatives of the ruling coalition, however, supported the changes, because they considered that this was a balanced and deliberate change that established the actual partnership and fully rejected the argument of a possible greater policy impact, since, according to the new Minister, it would no longer give agreement as it had been before, but only a non-binding opinion, which would in fact only increase the impact of local factors, local communities, in short, those providing conditions for work and means of action, and it is logical that they are adequately represented in the world that decides on these matters. With the Minister no longer consenting to appointments, the impact of local self-government is thus increasing, but it excludes the impact of state policy, which, according to the opinion of members of government, was also in line with the European Charter on Local Self-Government. On the basis of these arguments, a vote was taken and the result was 10 to 5, i.e. by 2/3 of the votes of the Members and Members present, it was decided that the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia would propose to the entire National Assembly to adopt this law at the time of the re-election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill to explain the opinion. Ms Magdalena Sverc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sport, has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u104	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Attendings. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that the proposed solutions are in law, as regards the composition of the boards of institutions as the governing body, as it actually allows for greater partnership between parents, between teachers and, of course, between founders. It is about increasing the partnership and confidence in cooperation between parents, teachers and the founder, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the National Assembly reaffirm this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In explanation of the reasons for the adoption of the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide once again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, it is said that in the amendment of the Law, the arguments for reducing the representatives of employees in the world of the institution from 5 to 3 representatives are not convincing, since the reduction in the number of professional workers in the world of the institution will not improve the quality of their operation but, on the contrary, the greater number of other two interest groups will strengthen the impact of the policy on the functioning of schools. The Council of State also considers that reducing the number of employees in the world of the institution means that the applicant does not trust professional workers in kindergartens, schools and student homes or that the choice of directors to date does not seem appropriate. According to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, these claims are not met. We believe that parents have the right and duty to participate actively and equally in the education of their children. The composition of the board of the institution with 3 representatives of the founder, 3 representatives of parents and 3 representatives of employees represents equal and equal representation of parents and employees and the founder and implements the principle of partnership between the participants in the education and training process. Furthermore, we cannot agree that the profession could make completely different decisions as parents and representatives of the founder in order to ensure the best functioning of the institution in which their children are involved. We are also convinced that the mayors of the local communities or their representatives in the holy institutions will decide with great care and expertise the manner and quality of the work of the institutions in their competence. So far, the operations of the municipalities and progress in particular in the new, even though small, municipalities, their rapid development and the economic use of tax money have already spoken for our acquisitions and claims. All citizens, and in particular all children, must have a uniformly sound system of education and education. However, the conditions of operation and regulation of individual institutions are also regulated in accordance with the options and requirements of the environment where these children live. That is why in the Slovenian People's Party we will once again support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we supported the law mainly because, at the initiative of the Slovenian National Party, Article 107 was amended, positively. And that is precisely what guides us, that we also now intend to support this law, because we think that this is more important than what the proposer has proposed, although we are in fact agreeing that these 21.274 signatures can also be taken into account and re-decision on the content of the law. What's the point in Article 107? On the initiative of the Slovenian National Party, this April, the Government finally - and I would like to stress - commissioned the Ministry of State that, in the field of legislation, as a condition for employment in the field of social welfare, education and education, it is legal that candidates for employment or employees in those areas must not be legally convicted of crimes against sexual inviolability. This is very important because we know that the most fragile parts of our society, these are children, have not been protected in this area. It doesn't matter how much - of course it is, but not as much as it is - parents, how many government representatives will sit in the world. Of course, we do not understand the Government's assessment and that it essentially wants to transfer the burden and responsibility of such important legislation with the "ad hoc" adopted law and reconfirmation. At the same time, however, in some way it opens up the possibility that if it is once again debated that it somehow turns out to be. We wouldn't want that. And if you look at both religious education and regular education, this problem of paedophilia is present. And it is this part of the educators or this part of the crime or this part of the offenders that is least punished because they are not being punished at all. And it is right that at least here there is some protection that those who intend to do this work will actually obtain a certificate and thus prove themselves. That is why we really condemn that by doing so, the minister could eat up all his promises, for see, in the July issue of School Views, he promised that the procedure would be regular and he was not. That's what I'm saying for the law that was passed. He wasn't a regular. In this way, the Government has also avoided these comments, which today the applicants are trying to reintroduce into the law. And I don't know what we're afraid of, why, in fact, the composition of the world could not be what it is. I have said a more important reason why we support the law than the one now proposed. But this one is also important. And look, if we're talking about accepting everything quickly, then we know, we can quickly conclude that we're actually adopting very unquality laws. We are also reminded of this by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has already ruled a hundred times that we have adopted unconstitutional laws. And that's not good, it takes credibility from the government. The government can also do so today, in fact bypasses the applicants, does not accept their initiative, rejects their proposals, I believe it will be legitimate, but it will not be credible. And that's probably what's going to happen today. That's not right. This is how other laws are adopted. And I don't know if this is why the National Assembly is here in this Chamber, that it is accepting or that the voting machine is for those bill proposals agreed upon by the Government at some correspondence meeting, then it's not important to discuss at all. And we know that in many laws, and even in so doing, the minister didn't want coordination at all. This, of course, is not good for the democracy of the Republic of Slovenia. And the positive initiatives that come into space, even in the National Assembly, should not be viewed or sad to see who the proposer is. If the candidate is the opposition, it's an unconditional rum in the basket. And we'll get rid of this way sooner or later. Of course, if the Government continues to have the same attitude towards the National Assembly, so that it does not take into account constructive proposals, then we will continue to have the law behind the law as it does with asbestos, when it is unconstitutional or the Trade Act or the Wine Act, for example, when we have adopted it twice or three times in a row. I would also appeal to the government's representatives to take any proposal from the opposition into account. And this proposal is well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Sport, representative of the State Council! One of the most pressing aspects of this law has already been the preparation of the proposal and also at the meeting of the home working body and the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposed change in the composition of the councils of kindergartens and schools, namely the reduction in the number of employees from five to three. And it is the adoption of such an arrangement that is the main reason why the Council of State has made a request for re-decision on the law. On the one hand, the drafter stresses the equivalent, democratic position of both employees' representatives, parents and representatives of the founder, namely local communities. The reduction in the number of employees' representatives is justified by the fact that the Council of Institutions is a management body and a non-professional body and that it is not a violation of the professional autonomy of teachers and professional workers. On the other hand, critics argue that such a composition of the worlds is not supported by sufficient professional arguments that no analysis is made to justify such an amendment. They argue that the opinion and competence to decide employees is essential for the quality education and training of our children. They are convinced that such an arrangement means a lack of trust for teachers, as a smaller number of employees in sacred institutions are expected to increase the influence of the founder and consequently increase the impact of policy on the appointment of directors and other decisions within the competence of the board of directors. In the DeSUS Parliamentary Group, in view of the views of the opponents of such arrangements, supported by, inter alia, more than 21,000 signatures of employees in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, we estimate that the law has been prepared and adopted without sufficient cooperation from all stakeholders, leading to a request for re-decision on the law. In the DeSUS Group, we have examined the arguments of both parties, both advocates and critics, and each member of our delegation will vote in his own conscience and conviction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all the representatives of the Ministry and the Council of State. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will once again support the amendment of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. I will talk in particular about the key change, the composition of the boards of institutions for which the veto of the State Council has been voted, at least this is what appears from the magnetogram. Why do we support the novel? In most areas, we came from self-governance to co-management, thus allowing all interested groups an equivalent position without the privilege of one group, which was also pointed out by the representative of the Council of State with words. Since it is simply unacceptable that in this area only one interested group is exercising some predominance at the most important body of public institutions, there is also some capacity for majority decision-making on matters which at the local level constitute the direct exercise of the rights and responsibilities of local authorities, i.e. municipalities. The assets of the parents' worlds of coastal primary schools also believe that the new law does not diminish the professional role of teachers, since the world of the institution is not intended for teaching work. The teacher’s pedagogical expertise is and must remain of great or even greater importance. They point out that the current regime in this area now puts school representatives in a senior position in relation to other representatives, who must necessarily participate in the school process. School representatives in the world are not only teachers, but they may also be other school workers who have nothing to do with the teaching profession. Equivalence in school decision-making should be based on the mutual trust of all those involved in this process. Experience from abroad, particularly from Western Europe, to which we have been keen to refer in recent years, shows that the link between school, parents and the local community is in the same proportion. Such changes have been reflected in greater co-existence between them and at the same time in more successful work in schools. Of course, it should be mentioned that in this case the basic concern for good education and the care of children in school is fundamental. They also stressed that, as parents, they are very interested in a greater role in the school system, which does not mean that they reduce their expertise and importance. Decentralisation processes are urgently needed for a more successful Slovenian school system. One of them is the change in schools in the world. We have already made changes in this direction, so that one group does not prevail, in all areas, in the economy, in the social field, in culture, and everywhere or in most decisions is evenly divided among all stakeholders. In some cases, even the majority of the institutions have an founder, which is logical, because the founder is the one who provides the necessary resources for the operation of the institution and is also responsible for the institution’s carrying out the tasks for which it is established. The law sets out the tasks of the management bodies, which is the Council of the Institute, its powers and tasks are determined. So far, we have not only done this in the field of education, where we have to date kept the composition of the worlds 5-3-3 for the benefit of employees. Although the representatives of the staff have already decided on specific professional issues within the professional bodies, they are not entirely independent and independent. The amendment of the law ensures a balanced composition of the boards of institutions and thus establishes a partnership between all stakeholders. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will once again support the amendment of the Law on Financing Education and Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Slavko Gaber has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u114	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This time, the National Assembly has the opportunity to receive a positive assessment from the concept of democracy in modern societies. The fact that this corrects the exam allows us the State Council proves that those handballers who want to terminate this body quickly are wrong. By giving us the opportunity to correct our reckless move, it confirms, not for the first time, that they were right and that they were able to think longer about those who wrote the structure of the constitutional bow of democracy in the country, than those who each one do so quickly with an institution that they no longer like at that very moment. It also depends because they are very principled people, whether they are in opposition or in position at the time, but they do. At the LDS, we hope that this time the National Assembly will gather some more wisdom than when it adopts the law and will reject this law. In this way, the door will be open for a sober debate and all the more so than it was possible to prepare this law. We will certainly support the proposal to reject the law. The reasons behind this are simple, but I think they are also eloquent. We will not support the proposal of a minister who is the first minister in Slovenia, who is taking over his residence rights. So far, it has not been possible to reduce the power of teaching at the suggestion of the people who ran this house. And there were a lot of these people. No one has gone so far as to tell 21,000 people of this condition that they want to do good and that they want to have their share of the word in their responsible work in order to hear it. He questioned the voice of those who, whether it is right or wrong, will lead the Slovenian education to a preliminary stage, so that those of us who are users of this system will benefit as much as possible. Omika and knowledge stand and fall when it comes to teaching school. Teaching together with family creates the largest part of what Slovenia recognizes in one way or another in the long term. To put it this way, we will reject this law because, without the need and to the detriment of the work of Slovenian kindergartens and schools, the balanced structure of the worlds in which users had 6 votes and there employees in kindergartens and schools 5 votes, changes into a clearly unbalanced structure. The imbalance is shown by the fact that, after a new one, users have 6 votes on their side, teachers and only 3 more. When some explain this to us, and the first one of this company, the current minister, to take nothing from teachers, has the feeling that we invented new, new mathematics. How is it possible to explain to people who teach in schools, including accounting and children, that 3 is less than 5, that 3 is now suddenly equal to 5. This has been happening to us in Slovenia in recent months. Something similar was explained by the same persons to students and students, a second group that, under the slogan of active citizenship and the necessity of involving young people in codecision where they live, where they are formed, took away the right of students and students to two places in the world. What was the message when the students protested? To enable them to cooperate even more in this way. Who's fooling around here and who he thinks is a fool is a very big question. Here, too, was the new mathematics at work. There are no more than two, it is new, and this is reported by the Ministry of Education in this country. Let him know who can. This, ladies and gentlemen, at least we can't understand differently from someone telling the teachers that they have too much power in the existing system and that this power needs to be taken away, if any, is the only bastion of regulation that some who don't understand very well the difference between co-management and self-governance claim is self-governance. They speak even as nonsense as if teachers had the majority in the world so far. Here, too, it is necessary to master only the foundations of accounting, taught there by the second grade of primary school well enough that it is clear that from 11 votes users had six, teachers five. How can it be argued on the basis of this relationship that teachers had a majority and that they themselves have decided on such an important institution as the school? No, they didn't. If the representatives of the local community and parents have decided to settle things in their own way when it comes to setting up an annual work programme in schools, when it comes to appointing directors and principals, and also after a new one when it comes to such a matter as organisation of education, differentiation in school, they may have also decided beyond the will of the teachers. This system was deliberately designed to play an important role in teaching, but back then it was the idea that teachers were such an important part of the system that things needed to be regulated, but at the same time it did not give them the opportunity to make their own decisions on the system. So far, the system has worked properly. In one point alone, it did not work properly. I'll say here what the Ministry doesn't hope to say. I know what was bothering them, we asked them many times to list ten schools where there were problems due to the composition of the world, and because of that, the school didn't work well. At one point, the system was disrupting. The principals and principals could not be set up just across the street, beyond the will of the employees there. Even in this case, it seemed to those who were preparing the structure of the previous system, which was after extensive discussions, of course, a partnership structure, trade unions, teaching, this was also discussed around Slovenia at many meetings, it seemed wise that it was not possible to politically set up directors and directors. Such a law, which in this way severely interferes with existing manners and in the standard of democracy in regulating one of such important subsystems as schooling, will not be supported by us in the Liberal Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr State Councillor, Dr Zoltan Jan, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, honourable Members and Members. The decision of the Council of State to decide once again on the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is an opportunity for the Socialist Group of Members to express their opinion on the law, which, in advance, is convinced that the coalition majority will once again find it appropriate and that it will vote on it, and we do not therefore face any arguments as to why certain changes in the law must be defended by such frenzy. Unfortunately, we did not get clear arguments at any stage of the legislative process, why a change should be introduced concerning the structure of the school's world. It may be necessary to listen carefully today and to consider whether the Council of Public Schools and kindergartens is not as similar as the Councils of other public institutions, where, with all the interventions so far, the Government has provided a majority and thus has a significant impact on the organisation, operation and also on the appointment of management workers in individual institutions. With all the conduct that can be judged by individual appointments, it is not possible to talk about raising trust and asserting that there is no change in the composition of the board of public schools and kindergartens in order to retain the influence on the appointment of principals and principals. And when we weigh it from this point of view, then what the Slovenian National Party believes to be good in this law seems less important to us, in this case, in order to change the view of the law we are talking about. The Council of State considered, as did the Group of Social Democrats, that there were not enough arguments to change what had in practice proved to be an acceptable method of decision-making. And it would be hard to agree with those who claim that in the current composition of the school's world, the formula 3 plus 5 plus 3 is self-governance, because then there wouldn't be three that decide in the world, three sides, but there would be only one. Now we are talking about a proposal that talks about balance, but we do not know why this balance in this case should be at the expense of reducing the impact of those who bear the highest weight in the educational process. This is the representatives of the teaching group. In fact, we have not received any solid evidence or argument of what they now promise to be significantly better represented because the number of representatives of the local community and the number of parents' representatives are not changing, only the number of representatives of the school collective is decreasing. And this is the only question that needs to be answered: Why should their impact be reduced? And when we talk about trust between partners who make a significant contribution to Slovenian school space, it surprises us in the Social Democrats Group that they are the most responsible for this process, these are teachers and teachers, who receive such mistrust - as if they were not now doing their job and deciding for the participants in education. Well, it is interesting to compare the composition of the world in schools or public institutions for adult education. It only provides that there should be 2 members of the founder's representative, 2 members of the employees, participants in education, this is an adult, and someone can represent in the world, but they can't. So only a completely different decision, such as the decision for a large majority of public institutions dealing with regular education. In the Socialist Group of Members, we cannot stand idly by before the President of the National Assembly has been given roundings, 21,000 signatures against the new way of decision-making in holy schools. Of the 35,000 employees, this is a very large majority and cannot be ignored. In addition, in our decision, the Social Democrats took into account the letter we received from representatives of the student organisation, which also expresses its disapproval of losing its representative in the world. So there are more than enough reasons why none of our concerns can be considered irrelevant and unfounded. And let me say an opinion on the appointment of directors. Indeed, the appointment of directors has occasionally aroused the Slovenian public. Indeed, there have been several initiatives to improve the method of appointment so as not to increase the impact of the policy or the influence of the local community or the impact of the minister on the appointment. The solution that we have now offered when the school council receives the opinion of the parental council, the opinion of the local community, the opinion of the employees, and then, on that basis, the opinion of the minister, which is indeed not binding, is still an opinion and appoints the director, cannot be changed to the conclusion that the minister at formal level is indeed shaking the responsibility for appointing the director and the actual impact on the appointment of the director is increasing. So the school can be said that, according to the opinion of the Social Democrats, the field of political influence on decisions is increasing, and it is not said anywhere that parents in the public administration world will always be satisfied with the views of the local community, as well as with the representatives of the local community in the world, it is no longer possible to say that they will be satisfied with these views. However, in the world, it should retain an important role for the profession through its employee representatives. If I conclude, we will not support the new decision on the Law on the Organisation of Financing for Education, the Social Democrats of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! The new law on the organisation and financing of education and education entails two amendments to the law. This is the appointment of the director and secondly, the composition of the council of the institution. The Council of State voted veto on this amendment, due to concerns about the reduction in the number of employees in the company’s world, which would result in the appointment of directors or affect the choice of the director alone, which the Teachers and Educators Union loyally attaches. Once again, I repeat the fact from the novel and the position of the New Slovenia Group. When appointing a principal, responsibility is transferred to schools. The principal shall be decided by the Board of Schools, which shall receive a previous opinion of the Teachers’ Council, the opinion of the local community, and the opinions of the Parents’ Council. When the Council of Candidates has chosen a suitable candidate, it also asks the Minister. He has to answer within 30 days, or the world of the institution decides without his opinion. In view of past developments in the appointment of the director and the severe attacks on the Minister's decisions, we welcome the current regulation of the law. The composition of the institution's world is changed into 3 equal parts. Three representatives of employees, i.e. employees and not just teachers and educators, three representatives of parents and three local communities. To the extent that we want the world of the institution to be credible and equally represented and to carry out its tasks, it is right that the same conditions are already given to all three partners at the start. We're not expelling anyone, but at least teachers and educators. No one with this novel interferes with professional bodies such as the Chamber, the activities of teachers, classmates, where professional decisions are made. I will once again give the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. There is no reason why teachers, educators, and other employees, especially good educators, fear these changes. They know that parents must also cooperate with the local community, especially the director. The local community provides teachers in kindergarten along with parents' salaries. The local community maintains buildings, builds them, etc., co-finances superstandards, in short, cooperation is inevitable. Finally, why would teachers, teachers, be afraid of their parents in the world of institutions? Those three parents. Which children are we talking about after all, if not the same parents ’ children. Some teachers do not want good cooperation with their parents and help with the educational process. It is necessary to tell the public that not the first, second, third, do not have a majority in the world of the institution and that this majority must be acquired together if they want to change or accept anything. Being a member of the board of the institution isn't a privilege, it's a duty. In the world of the institution, not because of personal interests, but because of groups of people, institutions who trust you with this function. And this function must be performed in a responsible and professional manner. In Novi Slovenija we will support the amendment of the law again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much. A respected choir! Before this debate begins, I have quite a bad feeling about this debate. Why? Because so far there have been many debates about this, both at the home work force and at this national assembly, where it has been proved, and I feel like we don’t know how to listen or we don’t want to understand each other. That is why I think it is better to debate more than ever. And I will try to argue my own debate. I myself come from what I have already said, that every institution, school has three basic functions, it is, professionally, teaching function, where there are professional bodies, teaching councils, classrooms and so on, the management board where the board of directors is the management body, and executive, where the principal is also in charge of his teaching role as manager. Then there is a large interest group of parents, which is also very important. Therefore, the law does not interfere with this professional function, in the professional bodies, but only in the management body, it is in the world of the institution. And the profession goes on, just like it's done before. It is true, however, that the number of teachers or employees in the world of the institution, in the management body, is changing. And why shouldn't it change, why should it stay the way it has been? That's what we're wondering, isn't it? Why should teachers or employees not have a dominant position in this governing body? Here we must come from who is the founder of this institution. Or an employee or a local community? Who finances the institution, in kindergartens all, in primary school maintenance, superstandard programs and other, in high school everything? And if so, why not have at least equal decision - making powers as teachers and parents? Why should one interest group prevail? The law, which is good, is also stressed by the state councilors, if you read the magnetogram, determine the three-partite, equivalent power of management, is a balanced relationship - founder, parents and employees. Each stakeholder group in this governance body has its own interest - the founder of the economy and the development of an institution or school, parents of the best professional and spatial conditions for their children in order to get as much knowledge, good education and well-being as possible, and teachers to adopt their annual work plan, implementation of superstandard and other programmes and so on. And where does the power of the profession go down now? The line goes on - I will not read these articles, because it is likely that someone will read it today, as the basic law says. And what diminishes the role and trust of employees? Why are there now going to be less quality directors than was said in the State Council. Whose interest is it that parents or founders want to be chosen as less-quality directors? And I quote a statement from the State Council: "Press message: the changed composition of the worlds pushes professional criteria in choosing managers in the background, and political motivation strengthens." So political motivation, for example, is the founder to recruit less capable managers. I'd draw that conclusion from it. Why is he trying to screw around, suggesting that politics is getting involved? And if you read a magnetogram, this policy as a red thread drags through a debate in the State Council, without every argument, just fear and fear. On the one hand, politics, and among the lines, thanks to the law. But it goes the other way around. Politics is pulling out of institutions, out of schools. This is evident even in the magnetogram, and I will quote this from Dr. Zoltan Jan's discussion, and in the background is the possibility of influencing the Director's election. This is a key issue, who will influence, who will have more votes. These are prominent jobs, unfortunately they are often shared for various services. And that was shared? And then the quote: "...and also the guardian, because she has to have a principal's exam, so anyone can't be. But still, it happens in practice." It is true that these are other procedures in this appointment of Directors who give them a minimum opportunity of opinion and it is also true that the Minister is withdrawing. In our view, even excessively, it goes too far and so on. That's what the State Council calls it, or one of the state councilors says the minister's retreating too much. Under this law, the Minister shall give only an opinion which shall or shall not be taken into account, and shall also give an opinion to employees where there is a secret vote. Parents also give opinions. And the Founder also gives an opinion. And parents are not interested in politics, but just a school as an institution that will be most useful for their children. Founder - the local community to allow the best working and development conditions, both for children and for teachers and employees, and especially for the best possible director and teaching choir, according to its financial resources. As good as possible. This is the interest of local communities. Not that she'll give a bad principal. It will provide children with as much knowledge, training and motivation as possible to learn. Rumor has it that this is a political influence on the choice of director. Whoever's saying this, I find it unreal, really unserious. As I have said many times, political power in the local community is scattered in the municipal world. I have recently read in the congregation Škofljica 15 holy cities, 10 saint groups are in, in our congregation 23 sacred cities, 10 saint groups. Power is scattered, power is not one political option. And if I recall 10, 12 years ago, the municipal council agreed to appoint a director, and the minister then gave an opinion, the candidates for director came to Kviaz, presented themselves, gave his programme, and the municipal council, on a proposal by Kviaz, where all the world's largest groups have one representative at a time, proposed. And the minister gave only an opinion on this. At that time, in 1995, 1996 it changed and the municipal council gave only an opinion, and the agreement began to be given by a minister, a minister representing a truly leading political option, one party. Where was the influence of politics? And one of the main arguments I disagree with is 21,000 signatures of teachers. Although I respect this statement, I respect this petition, because it's 21,000 signatures, it's been intercepted, but it's 60% of 35,000. And I'd be more specific if it was 100%. However, this petition has one weak point, it is unilateral. It covers only one partner in the management body. It would be difficult if I asked the same question, but I do not know what was on this statement, probably: do you agree that the power or influence of teachers in the world of the institution is being reduced, that the same question would also be asked to all 220 mayors and also to one large group, a larger number of parents, and interesting results. At that time, we could compare what is actually the interest in this management body. And here I ask myself, "Why didn't this happen?" The one who organised this statement, this petition, why didn't he send it to all the mayors, and why didn't he take a sample of his parents? Then we could make a decision about it. And if we had that, I'm sure the conclusion of the State Council would be different. I believe that the solution to the law is good, that the management of the institution is balanced, that the impact of the policy is substantially reduced, even if the policy is kept to a minimum, it will reduce the dependence of the administrators on teachers and on the collective, because we must not forget that the executive director, who decides, inter alia, on the promotion of workers in payment classes and titles, decides on the conclusion of working relationships, decides on the disciplinary and professional responsibility of employees and so on not to read. That the law is good, you can also see it from the Magnography of the State Council. I have read it several times when individual saints praise it, but some are fueled by doubts and fears of political influence. I conclude this debate with a statement by the well-known pessimistic and conservative state councillor and economist Prof. Jožet Mencinger, confirming what I said in this debate in the State Council when he says: "A respected assembly, if once a party secretary, would say, should the last remaining remaining self-government be eliminated. The Bible says: “The kingdom of the heavens belongs to all the earth; and the kingdom of the heavens belongs to all the earth; and the kingdom of the heavens is justice to all But since I doubt it, I will support the veto." That's what the professor said. And I would answer that, an example: "The professor's economic solution seems perfectly reasonable to me if he's a reasonable professor, an economist, because I doubt it, I don't support it." This could be translated: But since this current power is reasonable, I also support this law that we are considering today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u121	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Apparently, colleagues from some of the other parliamentary groups are missing, but I think it is essential to try, above all, to clear up some of the wrong concepts that have been used throughout this debate. First, when it comes to the question of attitude towards teaching. Surely we are all aware of the importance of teaching, and here it is very clear that professional decisions are taken by the teaching or teaching congregation. That is to say, everything related to the profession is accepted by the teachers themselves. What is the subject of this amendment is the governing body where material matters are decided. And the trend in Europe and everywhere around the world is that more power is given here to those who care about these funds that pay, by their own words. And who, in practice, is obliged to provide for the material environment? Of course it's a local community. If we are at least able to agree on this, then the question is: Why is there such a circus around the proposed amendment of the law, what is its essence? On the one hand, it is claimed that the influence of policy is expected to increase. Now, who, after the current regime, is concerned about the impact of politics? Minister with his consent. How much controversy there have been in this national assembly, including on the committee I run, precisely because of those unfortunate ministerial consensuss and the related possible and impossible complications and interpretations. This novel shuts down this agreement. This is said to be a decline in the power of the state, a decline in the power of politics in favour of local self-government. This is also a European trend, which is also confirmed in the European Charter on Local Self-Government. This trend is in line with the European Charter on Local Self-Government and it is therefore perfectly logical that the same mode of regulation, which has been applied elsewhere, applies to us. Who, for God's sake, is the fear of local self-government, and who wants more countries? The one who's fighting to keep the current state alive. Everyone in Slovenia, every political group, including the LDS, knows very much about the need for decentralisation in order to strengthen everything that protects against the country's excessive power. In the European Charter on Local Self-Government, this is precisely the fundamental purpose of the local community. And when this is done here with legislation, it is said, no, but this law cannot apply, because it is estimated that it could have some consequences which, in fact, we usually see as "slowly" as a scarecrow on the wall. Someone makes something up and then they mess with what they made up. This is really the content of this veto. For what one of the LDS Members referred to earlier as an argument for the regulation so far, that even in this emphasis, the authorities dealing with material things were represented in an appropriate number, a large number, but so that they could not vote the others themselves, precisely the same argument could also be used for a new regulation. They will also be represented in a relatively large number under the new regime, one third of them will be represented. However, of course, they will not be able to vote on others themselves. And that's why all this talk is actually, working hard to blur out the quality of this law. This is just a smaller state power and a strengthening of the local community. I will therefore personally vote in favour of this law in return, because I see it as a quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u124	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues. I am quite grateful to the Council of State that it has, by veto, prevented the adoption of this amendment of the law, because it has given more time, time, of course, which we did not get at the beginning of the debate on this law, because it also had to be adopted so quickly or should be accepted quickly. What was not given then is now given. Nevertheless, I would ask - because we have heard a number of rhetorical questions and logical spirals today - another rhetorical question when the coalition will decide whether or not to give more power to the founders. Now we've heard so many of these calculations, calculations on the power of teachers, that I don't have so much doubt as to whether teachers are afraid of power, but before, I have the feeling that power is afraid of teachers. As far as accounts are concerned, if textbooks from this century are not good enough, they can be looked at in 20th - century textbooks. If you're even complicated and they're too heavy, we can go there to the Guide, who wrote one of his first books of the Ratten'go Boukvice, but there is also known to be five more than three and that five out of eleven is a better ratio than three out of nine. Also, Blaze and Nežica at Sunday School were able to learn about this in time, and then they did not ask what was better. The fact that the thorn teachers are in the fifth authoritarian power is an old song. This has always been the case in all systems that they appear to be more or less democratic or that they are declared non-democratic. What I heard today reminded me of the 1970 ’ s when teachers were very much persecuted because they did not respond to their work to the social climate as prescribed. And from here it's probably this fear, and from here it's 21,300 signatures, which is not only 60%, but even 60%. Of course, others did not plead against what, but they did not. The law also gives very strong mistrust to those who are in the school process. I will read what Jernej Stromajer, president of the Diacea organization of Slovenia, said: "The Ministry's explanation can only be understood as a mockery to students. Opinions and membership in the school world, where students are decided on important issues, are completely different." So, the students understood what this was all about. Lawmakers or law-makers obviously do not, and one part of the legislators does not. However, I appeal to all of you to reconsider how you will vote. The fact that teachers are entitled to the right, of course, is also the fact that they are economically and wisely equipped with what the founder gives them, certainly is distrust and to teachers and, on the other hand, to students. And because you like to calculate, figure out how many of these students there will be voters in two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u125	Mr. Martin Mikolitch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you for your word and welcome! I would like to say that I tried to explain to Dr. Jan, the state councilman why the Council of State decided to veto this law. Along with 21,000 signatures and not to change anything that was good in the past, but above all this third explanation - I went to the magnetogram again - when there was talk about the responsibility of the members of the board of the institution - when you somehow pictured how it was said that only five members of the board of the institution, these were representatives of workers or schools, were responding to someone, and the other three representatives of the founders and the three representatives of the parents were only morally responsible. That's what you said. That's what it says here in the magnetogram. You also cited an example that at school there is a cook and answers, if there is anything wrong with the kitchen, somehow you are transferring it to the world of the institution. At least this is how I imagine that in the world of the institution, decisions are made with some conclusions and some vote. This means that so far only these five employees have responded. Who? Principal. And if he did not make the right decision in the vote, did he answer to him? You know, somehow he's pointing me to this, so if he didn't make the decision to appoint a principal, he was in charge. Then to the principal. This may have happened in some institutions. This is what I have pointed out the last time I discussed this law, that we do not confuse our eyes with the fact that no one would discuss the political activities of the institution, including those that have been appointed, and in particular those that have been appointed by workers so far. And that argument is really attractive to your hair, if I can put it this way at home, unless I've misunderstood you. If not, I would ask you to explain this once again about the responsibility of the State Council and how it represented or explained what you were explaining here today. I am firmly convinced that cofounders, parents chose, named those who trusted them, and because they did not at least respond morally to someone. The proposed law is certainly more appropriate from this point of view if you are explaining to yourself a new model or a new proposal from the now proposed institution, given the composition it has been in so far, which you say was ideal, especially what they said or what workers' representatives have decided. I will certainly, as in our parliamentary group, support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u127	Here you go, Dr. Jan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador, for listening to this. Unfortunately, it wasn't exactly accurate. I said, however, that professional workers and all school employees also bear criminal and material responsibility while members of the world do not have this responsibility, so it is normal to expect that school workers have a decisive influence on the process called education and education. It's true that I mentioned that cookbook, and in fact these are examples from practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, Director, colleague and colleagues, representatives of the Council of State! Allow me, as soon as we continue this debate, to allow myself to read again what the debate decides and what the world does. As the highest authority of administration, appoints and resolves the director of kindergarten or school, adopts a programme for the development of kindergarten or school, the annual work plan and report on its implementation, decides on the introduction of superstandard and other programmes, examines reports on educational or educational issues, decides on complaints concerning the status of the student, apprentice, student, student, university and adult as a secondary body, complaints about the rights, obligations and responsibilities of workers in the working relationship, examines matters submitted to him by the educational, teaching, teaching, teaching, teaching or teaching council, school inspection, representative labour unions, the parent council, the student community, pupils, students or students, and carries out other tasks, including through the amendment of the law, which we have instructed him to decide on the introduction of various forms of differentiation on the proposal of the principal. It is very difficult here to understand those who are trying to say that in the world of schools there are individual groups that advocate a specific interest that is not equal to another group in the world of schools. This is actually impossible to understand, because if the founder is only interested in economic behaviour, then we ask ourselves where are the other objectives to be represented by the founder. I'm afraid if now or the local community for kindergartens and primary schools and, say, for all secondary education, the country has only economics as a basic goal, then I wonder what we're doing at the substantive level, when we're doing so simply calculating these mathematical numbers 11 out of 5 is 5 plus 3 plus 3 in 3 plus 3 plus 3 is 9. Of course, then, as someone who has been in education and education for many years both in the field of higher education and in secondary education, in fact, fear of what these changes mean significantly longer than what the proposer is trying to present here today with this content of the amendment of the law. How to understand that on one side we say 5 out of 11, which represents less than 50%, that this is a problem when we have 21.274 on the other side compared to 39.500, which represents 53.85, which is more than half, and then we say, yes, that is not 100%, that is not the majority, and that is not so important and so important, that it should be taken into account. What is the logic here compared to one calculation compared to another, when you say 45% is too much and you have to reduce it to 33, and on the other hand you say: almost 54% is nothing. Why would you take that into account, 54%-that's nothing? At that time, there would have to be something extremely high in order for someone to realize that only the signatures given by the professional public, which creates the educational process, have given them an important weight. Here I would like to talk about how to share responsibility. Today the question is asked: Who in the worlds, then, will be more responsible? This means that teachers do not act responsibly and therefore they need to reduce their role in a world that decides on important issues, not only on issues of economy, but on issues that are very important professionally justified. What a way to understand that parents will now suddenly - given that they are present in all these years both through the world of parents and directly represented in the world - will be very responsible! To put it another way, it is more right that they have not been held accountable so far! And that the partnership process will now be possible, but so far there has been no partnership process! I have to say that I come from the school line and I could really hear, I put this question on the board and there was no answer! There was no answer to that question. Tell me a school where there's no partnering. Give me examples of conflicts within the school councils that certain issues have been so diametrically presented that the school council makes decisions by voting exclusively with the voices of teachers. It would be very good to see in which environments this is happening, what kind of reflection it is in, and what kind of changes it takes. It would be very good to see this on another case that we are not talking about today. We're only talking about the formula 5+3+3 that changes into 3+3+3. We haven't said anywhere today that the formula 5+2+2+2 is changing into 3+3+3. And isn't it interesting that my debate, which was on the committee and questions were raised, was the answer from the Ministry's representative, if I just conclude: the principal can be a student, which he also teaches in the world - imagine this relationship. Director and student - I was at school and this is a completely normal relationship. This relationship is perfectly normal! And if communication is not at these levels - yes, then how do you imagine that life at school works? How do you imagine that the diocese community cannot present its views to the director? And you need to know that these views of the student communities are not always weather and not principals or teachers, but you should have them as partners, which you are talking about very vehemently here today, that you want to keep them as partners. But isn't it interesting that the most involved in education and education, i.e. teachers, i.e. school and students, are you putting outside or reducing their influence - is that not the most interesting? Those who are most in there should have the least of their words on how they're going to live. Of course, it's very difficult to understand that 0 is more than 2 and that 3 is more than 5. Of course there was no answer! The answers, however, are clear when we receive members of the panel's opinion, asking Members: Do not believe what was said on the committee by the Ministry's representative, that the students agreed with the proposal. Then someone here doesn't tell the truth! A letter from the student community that talks about this, that is, the Diagnostic Organization, which writes about this: "We want to... constructively, democratically participate in managing the situation in schools." But the Ministry speaks because they agreed to go out because they are so young and so do not know what they are doing. I have a completely different experience and ask the principals and teachers how these dialogues are running, which are in fact an integral part of the educational process. Estimates that the influence of teachers on the appointment of directors is too great. Tell me, on what basis do you conclude that this influence is too great? Based on what analysis, the evaluation follows such an assessment? It would be very good to see examples, let us say, whether it was not an example of the appointment of one of the directors, for example, in Beltinci, a typical proof that some tried with purely other criteria that we here will try to explain these changes in the law today, so that someone who was a successful director who had confirmation would have a positive opinion of all those who were invited in the appointment process to give an opinion that the world had reacted in accordance with those opinions and that then someone - of course, based on some indications, complaints, opinions, policies of that environment - would have questioned this appointment. In doing so, it is necessary to ask whether the Minister is actually giving up his role. Why, see, in the appointment procedure itself, when the Council elects one candidate from among the registered candidates, the proposal is forwarded to the Ministry to give another opinion? What will be the problem before the school council if it has one choice in the world now, the opinion of the minister will be, but the decision-making will now be the opinion of the minister, who has certainly assessed this on the basis of criteria that advocate professionalism, economy and what else I know, and let's say on the side of the world that will also include all these criteria - and the choice will be different from the final decision. And we wonder what the dilemma will be here among the members of the world. Will the decision be easy or harder? Why did the director or minister not then withdraw completely from this process? And when we talk about the autonomy of the teacher, do you really think that when you talk about responsibility and give it another signal today when we talk about responsibility: no, teacher, your responsibility is too small, so the number of your representatives in the world is decreasing, they're more responsible. Do you think in such a way that such a teacher will understand that we give him autonomy in school? I come from these kinds, and I must say that never such signals, such messages, could have been understood in this way. So let me finally say, let's think again about what was done. That, as my colleague Ljublješek said, we listen to each other. I was listening to him, and I hope he's listening to me in the office over the speaker, too, considering he's not here. And to listen to the arguments, to the arguments that the education process in Slovenia will take place in such a way that the results of this process will be as qualitative as possible and that all those who will be represented will be responsible in this process, who will participate in the decisions within this process. That they will respond and that decisions will be subject to a common interest. For if we imagine the world so tripartitely in the interests of the broken, of course in this case we do not give the world and schools a good journey. I therefore propose that, after reconsidering the decision, we reject the law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Croat has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected choir! So we are re-examined by the amendment of the law, which, in my view, introduces modern and democratic principles into the composition of the institution's council. Personally, I agree with the change in composition, because I think it is more balanced and gives a much greater role to parents and founders than it has been before. In my opinion, we have the right to participate actively in the education of our children and the composition of 3-3-3 represents equal representation of parents, founders and employees in the education and training process. There was a lot of talk about numbers, 5 out of 11, 3 out of 9. A big difference is this, but at the same time a great similarity. In any event, they are employed in a minority institution under the previous law and according to the current law. Well, it's not a big change, they don't have a majority in decision making anyway. That's why I think this whole debate, I don't know, is kind of unnecessary. The second key point of this novel is that in appointing a director, responsibility is placed on schools or institutions and that the Board decides on the director. Of course, the teacher’s opinion, the parents ’ opinion, and, of course, the local community must be given earlier. And this amendment of the law takes absolute power to the Minister and democratically allocates it to the world of the institution. This seems to me to be a very important achievement in this novelty of marriage. This, in my view, significantly reduces the political impact, and that was, I think, also the main motive in preparing this novel. And, of course, for these reasons, I will be happy to support this novel, or at this reading, once again. Also a novelty in Article 107 of the Act, which was included in the novel at the initiative of the Slovenian National Party and talks about the conditions for the conclusion of a working relationship, seems to me to be a very large acquisition. It is a matter of conditions when a working relationship is concluded that a person convicted of a crime of sexual inviolability - and I agree that such a person has nothing to do near school, let alone be in school. For all these reasons I've been talking about, I think I can and - I appeal to you to support this bill once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u134	Mr President and Mr Zoltan Jan, representative of the Council of State, Madam Secretary of the escort, colleague and colleague, very nice greeting. I thank you, Mr Zoltan Jan, and the Council of State, which represents the interests of people, including those in education and education, that you have vetoed this law. Your arguments for the veto are fully justified, alone as a man who has stood for the cathedral for 20 years, I support and I think you have hit the little girl of what was necessary to say in order not to adopt the law. It seems impossible for me, dear colleagues and colleagues, that throughout all the years of the application of the current law, this application has proved to be appropriate and that the institutions operate rationally and that they work well. As few cases in the courts as they were from school, you rarely reach them if you look at the level of interest groups in the Republic of Slovenia. This is more or less true, but we have witnessed that the law is trying to distort itself right on this segment, including the appointment of directors, at the beginning of the term of the current minister, when there were serious cases of irregularities that some Members have pointed out, to which unions have also been warned, and in recent times the appointment of directors under the current system is complete without any problems. It seems to me, my fellow Members and colleagues, that all three of the arguments that you have put forward in favour of such a law being passed are in the hands of the stalemate. First, balance - this is about weight, I think you could say, not that you've achieved balance, but that you've got in numbers equality 3 - 3 - 3, and that's far from balanced. I think that the left hand share in the education process and the success of the staff in education and education, which have yet to have a necessary role in the system in which the country has changed, in which the market economy system has changed and so on, and in which every day there are new challenges for Slovenia to become a knowledge-based society. For this reason we should look at these people with particular attention, I personally think, perhaps with a little corrupt dioptry, that the ratio of 5:6 as it is now, is not balanced in favour of the performer, but is unbalanced in favour of the users. It seems to me, given the practice I have had, that for some good balance, they have always been at odds with the interests of those who have carried out the education programme, advocated it on the professional level, also advocated it by the fact that the school is properly and well-being within the framework of the legislation and, on the other hand, the policy and, on the other hand, parents. Parents had some problems, but to speak in school and make decisions on most sides of politics, but I think, respected colleagues and colleagues, a little bit too much. I often listen to people from politics who didn't have a single hour of didactics, not an hour of methodology, who didn't have a generation to graduate, who didn't teach in class for an hour, who didn't perform an hour in school, and I can say that these judgments were wrong in most cases, because they didn't know the area to which they went, and they basically represented only the political interests of certain options that she had chosen or prepared for them to come in, so this balance doesn't hold up. Now, however, the equality of stakeholders, respected colleagues and colleagues, as a long-standing teacher, I thank all the students with whom I had the honour and opportunity to participate in the creation of the school programme and the school policy. I must say that if students really do take them, especially students, they are quite competent, that without the hair on their tongue they could draw attention to the mistakes that they made in school, as students have warned themselves, because of their own security of interest or because of the experience that no one had hoped to warn them and they were bringing a lot of fresh wind into the quality of the school, a lot of changes that they had benefited from the educational work, but not that they were trying to push the educational work down. It seems to me that this total lack of confidence in this crowd of 100,000 people seems to me that in today's time of democracy in Slovenia is completely flawed and also from a social point of view it is completely flawed. If you take ethics and morality - those who teach who live among us, who watch you the most every hour, what tie you will have, whether you have a shoe untied or not, how you talk about how you train to cut them away from decision-making, even though they were in the minimum direction here, it seems to me from below every level. On the other hand, it does not last, it could still be mentioned - the established partnership. Yeah, but who did we have a partner with? The State Council, in which people are to point out that something has not been done right, has vetoed this law. The union has said more or less that the disadvantage of the law is that it is not good that they are now going to change the law, but that the law expresses a certain lack of trust for employees in institutions and that the role of the profession in the body is reduced. By this law you have made it public to all teachers in the Republic of Slovenia, to all more than 10,000 that their work has not been good in institutions and that you have punished them with this law by reducing their number of people in the world. I think that you are our teachers in all that have been in the history of the former Yugoslavia and the new Slovenia - they did not deserve this. I strongly object to this argument. Not only what the union has said, if it signs 21.274 people something, but let's think about it, because we are not all-powerful in this world, dear God! People have to listen, they have chosen us, and we represent their interests! And that these signatures will sweep under the carpet, throw away - what will be achieved in such teachers? They will say they don't like us, they won't listen to us, they won't answer us, they won't answer us, and that's why now, if we have that status, we're going to treat these people, not the children, we're going to behave accordingly. It seems to me that this is not the way to bring creative unrest to school, but to try to block this creativity at school. For all this, we will vote, at least in the Liberal Democracy, against this law. It seems to me that the law brings slaps to teachers, that the law does not give more elan to people who have a heavy burden on their backs to bring this country forward in the form of education and education, but that we will achieve this, if we have not done it before, that work in school will be fully politicised. For this reason, I speak from experience, I certainly will not support this requirement of the State Council, trade unions, teachers' signatories and fully justified, and if you adopt such a law, know that without us and write down the consequences. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can write gold laws here, but if the professional and interested public do not take them into account, such laws will do harm to the state, and that is, in my opinion, one of the laws that will do harm to the state. Therefore, once again, I call you in mine and, on behalf of the one I belong to, this is teaching, let us reject this law and remain with the old solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. A nice greeting from the Secretary of State with a co-worker, Member of Parliament and Member of the National Assembly. I must say that I was personally surprised that the State Council has decided to veto this law, because I personally believe that the law brings good things, that things in the field of education and education in Slovenia, I will say, are normalising. And I have to say, I just can't understand this debate here today, this composition of 3-3-3, as if we're standing on three different shores and we're pulling each other aside. Does not everyone who is a member of the board of institutions work for the same thing? I say, as long as one of the members of the world finds himself trying to pull something in his direction, not in that direction - the goal I say is perfectly clear and must be the same for all. Maybe one will pull a little bit more, the other a little bit less, but the fact that now because of this composition 3-3-3 will pull each one to his own side, it just doesn't go into my head. Will not the members of the world really work for the good of the school, for the benefit of the students and students? I recently read it. He gave me a village teacher his book, which he published in self-publishment. He describes his years at the school, the way he came to the school, the situation that was -- although I'm not the youngest in this national assembly, but I have to say that I've discovered a lot more about what was going on. I am convinced, however, that we are now, after 15 years of independence, but also in the area of education and education, somewhere on a normal path, and that the change in the composition of the institution's world does not change the direction in which education and education are to go. I am pleased that Mr Germič has previously read the tasks of the world. And if we look at these tasks again, I personally have to say, I see no need for these tasks that the world has in order for more teachers to be represented in the world than in this proposal. Does this mean that there is no trust in parents and that there is no trust in the founder’s representatives, which is one that provides the material capacity of the school. I'll tell you one more thing. I was myself, I think six years a member of the board of the institution, and I must say that the work went perfectly normal, that teachers did not even come forward, did not participate in the work of the institution. The principal had the principal’s word, and the parents responded as they did at one time, and the teachers were mostly silent. When I thought about why, today, I kind of got the answer - because it's probably true, what small parents just said and wished for the displeasure of the principal, and the teacher didn't want to do it, although many times, I'm sure the teachers also agreed with the parents. Perhaps you would stop at one of the tasks when it was said that the Institute's Council is deciding on the superstandard and other programmes it has. I think that even at this point it is right to have a word or, I would say, we should have a decisive word here with parents and founders - founders for money and parents for money, because our school, although we say it's free, we know that it costs us, parents, a lot. But if the school is good, parents and the congregation are happy to give money for it. Finally, I will say this: as in all professions we have very successful, successful, less successful, and also unsuccessful, there is no exception to the teaching assembly. We also probably have very successful, good, medium, less successful, and, unfortunately, parents, especially children, as well as a few less successful teachers. That's too bad, but we know they can't all be good. I would like parents to have a little more say in their decision-making and education so that their voice can be heard. As far as students are concerned, but I must also point out, the students are good, they hope to express their views, they are very capable, and they are mainly able to achieve the goals they set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Actually, I didn't mean to add anything to this, but when I read this opinion of the State Council, I have to say you blew it away. And I'm going to say some things that you're -- I don't know if it was some intern in the State Council who wrote it or whether you meant it. So it seems to me that the ratio of 3 representatives of teachers and I also welcome those who are present on the balcony, then 3 by parents and 3 by the founder is quite appropriate and fair. Some of you have turned this number into 6 to 3, but I don't know why. Have you compiled a representative of the founder and parents against the teachers or what the sum is? I just don't get it. Of course, this sum could be 9:0, if it's good suggestions or between this number 9 - any relationship. Then you write in your opinion in the State Council that it is necessary to stress that a member of the board of institutions and you have placed in the Embarrassment: "Representatives of the founder and representatives of parents for the operation of the school bear no responsibility.".. Did you mean that? Parents do not have any responsibility for the operation of the school. Is that true in this country? If that is the case, then there is something very wrong with our school system and you need to change something immediately! Are you saying that all responsibility lies with employees, or do teachers hope to take full responsibility for the operation of the school? Of course not! I have kids at school myself, and I know that's not the case. Who do teachers call when something at school doesn't count? The first and responsible, the most responsible parents are, or at least it should be, if you do not know this in the State Council, I am very sorry that we have to tell you this here in the National Assembly. And you say that parents do not have any responsibility for the functioning of the school - please, I do not agree with this, I absolutely disagree! Parents must bear just as much if not more responsibility than teachers! And our school will be good, no matter how much trouble Mr. Mogue brings us here, only if the parents bear the same responsibility for the functioning of the school as the teachers do. We have now led this debate to the fact that this council of the institution appoints only the principal and the other does not matter. You say then that most of the decisions have been made by the saints so far by consensus. So, I don't care if they make decisions with consent or not. I am interested in this country as a responsible country, including as a policy, whether they make good decisions or not, or whether they make the best decisions, even when it comes to appointing the one who is then responsible for managing the school, for the director. That students are no longer in sacred institutions and that they do not decide - I agree that students are a very important member of this, but I will tell you honestly, from experience, I know if the director is strict, if he wants order and discipline, then the students behave differently, than if the principal is not what they would expect. I don't want to build these odds here on the case, but I know her. I know her from the middle where I live, when the students were talking to each other, and they said, and we gave him "caylo." And then you end up saying that the changed composition of the world of the institution is pushing the professional criteria for choosing managers in the background and strengthening political motivation. Where did you put the parties - on the side of the political institution, being the founder? Does the Founder appoint parents? They are not appointed by the founder - the founder appoints his representatives, if you are already giving some reasons for political motivation. So you can't assign political motivation to others in this composition as representatives of the founders. Certainly not to parents. Certainly not to parents. Parents will make their own decisions. If it is a good proposal, they will support it if it is a bad proposal and they will reject it. The only argument considered in this whole story is the only number of signatures collected by teachers who claim that there was no social dialogue in this law. This is what we have been taught to hear in recent times that ministers are not, at least one, successful in conducting social dialogue, says you also write here that there has been no social dialogue and that this is the majority of those 39,500 employees. So this is the only argument, but I am sure that this equality does not create any discrimination for teachers and that they are equally taken into account in this proposal as all those responsible for having a school work well; these are, I would say, parents in the first place, then teachers, then founder. Because if a school gets good students, then they can do a lot of things with these students, but if they get bad students, of course very few, and most of the time the students bring to school the patterns of behavior they see and take home in their families, they say in the environments in which they live. In New Slovenia, we will support this proposal of law without bad news that we want to change or harm teachers. I really don't know how it's possible that as many as 21,000 and a few teachers signed that they have to have a majority in decision-making in the world of the institution. I don't know what the argument is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When I listen to these discussions, the most common use of the words "influence" and "power" are, and then I thought that I could actually pull it down and remember some title "will and power" which eventually could lead to will and power. But it is simply that the coalition has written its will in the coalition contract after amending school legislation in this National Assembly also has the power to adopt amendments to the laws. Do not resent this if we can identify in a series of laws that does not win the power of argument, but the argument of power. And although the coalition refers to parents, civil associations, we have adopted some changes in laws that have had even worse consequences in their effects and have caused even more dissatisfaction than previously expressed. To think, of course, of the criteria for admission to schools with limited enrolment, it is clear in itself. You're saying things are normal. Yeah, was there an emergency situation in school now or something like that that needed to be normalized? Please state that this change reduces the absolute power of the Minister and gives more power to the local community. This power, the minister, will be able to transfer from the local level back to school. Who says it won't be possible to do so, given that we know who appoints representatives of the local community to sacred schools? But what bothers me in all this long-standing debate about the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is that we are all engaged in proving to each other that we have those who claim that the current relationship in the holy schools is appropriate, less and less room for manoeuvre because you simply want to silence us with the expression "balance" and I do not know what else, although I do not know what to do with balance in this case. But the fact is, it's hiding behind my whole series of foretold and anticipated changes that need to be made easier for them to go to school, just as some changes in the sacred ways have already made their way easier. And if you really had very solid or tangible evidence to believe that all these changes would really contribute to improving the quality of teaching, then you wouldn’t even be so worried. In these matters, however, I am disturbed by the things that can be detected here and there with different circuits or messages and which are more or less all united or centred on the words 'economy, responsibility for the availability of public funds, reduction of funds'. You will recall the suggestions on how the Minister should be the one to decide on the replacement of employees to hospital or maternity. Minister Zver sent one letter to the principals and schools, Minister Drobnic announced measures that would encourage and reward employers for their employment instead of their parents. And there would also be an example to prove that some things are not as precise as some would like to show. I'm also not sure that all things in school can be measured by money. This is how we discuss as if teachers are inefficient, as if they are irresponsible to have public resources at their disposal, and we are discussing things like this - Mr Pojbič, please, I also understand non-verbal communication, so I would ask you if you are a little more tolerant of me if we have discussed tolerance for five hours before - we are talking about these things in a way that we cannot bear. [[...]] School is not a company, school is not a private company where the owner would [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Mr. Gaber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that we are talking here today about two names for the role of the school. When I listened to one of the exposed Members' positions, which explained that in Slovenia, having parents in schools have the main word, I had the feeling that he was confusing things. It is true that we have a very big role to play in raising children, but it is probably a school in this world - and not yesterday - to do that part of the job that we can discuss with her, but the school is there to do it if not, we would do it at home. And this part of the deal is in the part where it's about the odyssey, as in the other part where it goes -- and these two are very much intertwined -- for knowledge. Very clear. No one can do it unless it's done by teachers and teachers. And because they are so important for this part of the process, for this part of the creation of the human personality, everything is rather than smart, it is unwise to tell them that we do not trust them, only to them in this threesome, in the elementary school, for example, to take away the number of votes they have. How can they understand this differently from someone who believes that they have too much power? And it is especially strange that this same city tells them that their responsibility is increasing. These two can't play it all the way anyone imagined. Like the other thing that we've been talking about here today, it's also kind of weird. Exclusion of pupils at the secondary level, such as high school girls and high school students from the world of schools; dropping out of the standard that has already been achieved is not smart. Therefore, my answer to the question that has been asked here several times today, who is afraid of parents, who are afraid of local communities - is very simple. There's no evidence that anyone would be afraid of their parents to be afraid of the local community. The local community has so far held its place in the saints and will also have a post. His parents had him so far, and they will also have him. Who is afraid of teachers - this is a question because they take cities in the world! And the answer to that is simple and no power, the answer is: the ruling coalition, the President of the Government and his minister, these two have decided because we see that in the coalition there is a command system, a kind of puppet theater all of this together, they have decided. They don't trust the teachers! And that, ladies and gentlemen, is bad. Unfortunately, it's not only bad for the coalition, unfortunately, it's long-term bad for this country. We would need to raise the demands and expectations of the entire school system, with increased investment, we should raise expectations about the results, we should be able to reach them in such a way that the one who can do the most - in school is a teacher or a teacher. I don't know any other logic. Family, of course, can do the most at home. All of us who send our children to school know that in school it is not us who are most responsible and we can do the most. There is still time for us to reconsider, and it is time for us to make the marriage meaningful. I know him, probably relatively solid, compared to this environment. The functioning of the law is not perfect either, and it can be built up. There are some elements that are good at change, but they are key elements that are weak and aim at reducing the role of teaching and at one segment of students as well, and in the other part they are full of communication about the role of minister. We are the situation in which the Minister received a proposal in advance for those who could run the school and decided who he supported and who he did not already have. This was the situation before 1992. And then they sent it back to school, and at school, the world decided who he was going to confirm. I will trust the coalition to take seriously the withdrawal, with a step that we have not taken, when the minister is fully withdrawn from the appointment, to withdraw from the point of view. Because if it really does give its opinion as an opinion, then it must be said that it is absolutely unnecessary, but if it gives it as a binding opinion, then it is something else, it is a secret dictatorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I will stop with some of the statements that the representatives of the Council of State have written in their request, saying that the reduction in the number of professional workers in the holy institutions will not improve the quality of their operation. That seems like a very serious allegation to me. I don't know how you can predict far from what's going to happen in the world and how things are going to go. You also say that "the opposite will be due to the number of other two interest groups" - there will be no larger number for the first time, the number for all groups will be the same, i.e. 3 - 3 - 3 - - that "for the sake of the larger number of other two interest groups, the impact of policy on the functioning of the school will be strengthened". It is now obvious to parents that they are political or that they will introduce politics in sacred institutions, and that is the only way I can understand it, because according to the new constitution, if we think that politicians - and that politics is so very disruptive - probably those three saints sitting there, not the parents. So there will be 6 politicians and 3 politicians in the Holy Offices. Then you write that "experts can most comprehensively assess who of the candidates has the appropriate skills, expertise and appropriate personality qualities for the good management of kindergartens and schools." From now on, they will have to give their opinion to the employees, so this is a legal provision where they will still be able to give their opinion. You're saying that the most expert workers know are the best candidates. How do they know them the most? What if one of the Murska Sobota boys shows up at Igu school? How do those workers know him there, and how can they best assess his personality? However, what was also very difficult to determine, and I think that the same quality can be given by parents and representatives of local communities, because they do not sit in the holy institutions themselves, without any school and have no education. They too have made some schools, have certain professions, and are probably also competent to identify certain skills and knowledge and examples of personality traits, and they should also consider what appropriate personality qualities should be for good governance. I think it's a little too much of a claim that only the professionals at school know that, and everyone else knows nothing about it. When we talk about founders or proportions in sacred institutions. It is necessary to know the rights and obligations of the founder. The founder shall adopt the establishment act, the establishment of the institution, the establishment of the institution, the provision of the means of establishment, the start-up of the work, the responsibility for the obligations of the institution in each area, other obligations, the provision of material conditions, the construction of schools, branch schools, playgrounds, accompanying facilities and much more. These are important obligations that would reasonably expect them to have a proportionate share in the sacred institutions. I have already mentioned that the Councils on public institutions in the field of social, cultural, health and research activities are composed differently, this is discussed by the Law on Institutions and Article 29 provides that the composition, method of appointment or election of members, the duration of the mandate and the powers of the Council shall be determined by law or act establishing, or by statute, or by rules of the institution. Most of these councils are not made up to have the majority of their employees. We have kept this, as we say, only in education, although I have previously stressed that teachers decide on professional issues in professional bodies and are sovereign, there is no policy, no local community. You also write if we reduce the number of employees' representatives to show that we do not trust professional workers, that we do not trust teachers. I am more concerned that we do not trust the parents and representatives of the congregation and the country. In order not to be able to assess the ability to give some agreement to the annual plan and to determine what is appropriate or not in this annual plan. Most of the time you're saying that they've worked without shocks so far, they've taken virtually everything and I don't know why it's such a problem now. At my previous consideration, I also highlighted what we are constantly listening to — that teachers are against the congregation and parents. What a world of institutions I know, well, and they're not always teachers against everything, they're all oppressing them and they're all making their work impossible. If teachers or representatives of institutions that are professional can justify why certain solutions have been adopted, they will also be accepted by the saints of the institutions, and parents and the local community usually do not interfere with whether they are in the annual plan of some things in February or March, because they are known by directors and employees to justify why they have been put into the annual plan. I think that we should not say that someone is against someone or no one is against someone else, but all three groups in the institution’s world are to coordinate different opinions, especially in order to make our children and teachers feel good at school. That's why I'm going to back up the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you. Does the representative of the Ministry want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u146	Your Honor! In this debate, many different arguments were heard again, but I would only repeat what is essential, which in fact also preserves the solutions in the law - this is the representation of all parties. On the one hand, teachers who, once again from this town, can be trusted, are very clearly set out in Article 60, which speaks about the professional bodies of the school that make professional decisions. And when we talk about school autonomy, we also talk about the professional autonomy of teachers. Of course, it is necessary to define clearly what things this autonomy of teachers refers to, what things teachers in schools make professional decisions about. This is also clearly defined in the ZOFVI. On the other hand, the world of schools is like a management body, and we believe that teachers are so qualified and know how to defend things in the world of schools that parents can answer questions of good and quality. As we've heard, on the other hand, if we're talking about 39,000 teachers on the one hand, then we need to talk about 500,000 parents on the other. And if we count ourselves in the school system and the weight, as it was said, measured, then the weight will probably fall on the parent’s side and we will have to make the saints of the parents and not the teachers. Parents are users, and probably in the school world, according to the tasks of the school world, they can also actually ask questions and co-decision in this area. On the other hand, I regret to note that representatives or founders are so low on the opposition's side - those who actually pay for the school system make sure that teachers can teach and that parents have somewhere to send their children, actually provide salaries, provide conditions in the school system that they can take place. And even more, you know how often we listen, especially in kindergartens, why a kindergarten has a superstandard service, such as teaching English, and why no other kindergarten has one. Because the founder - the municipality has decided that this superstandard service will actually pay the kindergarten and probably any principal who participates in this school world or in various discussions. And also professional workers have an interest in actually convincing the founder's representative of good decisions, that even in the council of municipalities, when they have to defend and adopt the budget of the municipality, these representatives actually advocate kindergarten and superstandard school services. So it's a positive. In fact, the school should convince the founder’s representatives of good solutions so that these representatives, together with the directors, can then, in effect, defend good decisions for parents and the congregation at various councils in the congregations. So in all modern democracies and in Europe they actually advocate that school must breathe and live with the place; and this is the trust that actually gives the message to both teachers, parents and founders. That is why I repeat from this stage here that the ministry had no intention of taking anything away from teachers, but, on the contrary, even more of this partnership between teachers, parents and founders to link qualityly; and thus to commit all three partners to shared responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you. Does the representative of the Council of State want a word? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. In a three-hour and 10-minute debate, you have given me 10 minutes, so I can only thank you for all the support that has been given in the debate, which, however, if we add up the arguments, has given rise to the criticism of the law. I therefore expect that the decision to vote will not be particularly difficult. On the other hand, in the debate a whole series of things and a somewhat vague understanding between the key terms, has the professional body of the school been the expert body or not? Not for that. Some competences are purely professional and as a result, when the presence of teaching and professional workers is reduced here, it also interferes with their professional work. Some misunderstandings between school founders and school owners, as well as the idealisation of the education situation, are also unacceptable. Not to make illusions and you all know, many of you are also a municipal councillor, etc., and many would be happy to finance sewerage, not school, if this was not regulated and determined by law. In the case of superstandards, however, as the Government's representative has said, there is also great opposition when it comes to raising standards. True, parents have a lot of responsibility, but this responsibility is often shown by their son’s desire for a fine witness, not knowledge, skills, and so on. Let's not make any illusions. And of course we're talking about fear, what happens when it changes. But we have a situation that is not in any situation in any component critical. It works, it works without problems, and you change that. And you change despite the opinion of those who are involved, why? In order to free up opportunities for appointment of officials who are prominent places with public contracts and so on. I think that this intervention really points to the question of whether it still holds what is in the Constitution, as set out in Article 1 of the Constitution. This is because something changes when you oppose it, which is not necessary to change, so I expect your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Slavinac, nothing will happen, Mr. Rugelj. Here you go. [[...]] [[Intermediate conversation.]] Because the Group of Members has spent their time. [[...]] [[...]] [[Intermediate conversation.]] The moment we talk to the technical service about this has been a mistake and please apply again. [[...]] [[...]] A representative of the Council of State and a representative of the Government may also be appointed. Check-in is on. There's still time, five minutes. Yes, Mr. Rugelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I've listened a little, or I'm not really involved in this area much, but I think I can give my opinion. Look, I absolutely support these appointments to the world of schools, 3, 3. I was also a member of the school council myself, and I can tell you that there was very little for teachers to bring down the principal in a given term because they were not satisfied with him, because he gave them a little too much work, there were problems around nine years of age, etc. Four years later, the same principal or principal obtained 11: 0 in a vote; it is said that she was right, right, and later it turned out that she was right, and even later the teachers realized that she was right. All I see here is this big advantage, that at the time the parents insisted, but also the founder, that there was no such thing as a replacement. Cases like this, I believe there's still a lot. Here I would welcome the decision of the Minister of the Beast, who himself gave up a great, very powerful influence on the consent of the principals, no minister has done so far. I think it's an extremely positive move for a greater democracy. But if anyone wants to talk here, I don't know what, about politics, about political interference. See, even those three representatives who will be appointed by the founder are usually three representatives appointed after the 3 largest parties, I have not seen the case that this would be a purely unilateral decision, so this is distributed. Then, with my parents, I don't think anyone's going to talk about politics either, at least as among teachers. I think these relationships are real because, after all, the teachers, I've been talking to them who have chosen signatures, and the two of them have told me, "They told me you were going to be for us." That's that argument or the non-argment that we're talking about in here. That's not an argument. Teachers also "punch" a little control, given that they know who's paying them. If they were working for themselves, it would be different, I believe. I also believe that they will not lose teachers with this absolutely nothing, they will still have an impact, still no one will interfere in their professional affairs, how they learn, etc., but in some other things I think it is right to equalize here, only equally. Up until now, too many teachers, with five votes, only 1 were still missing or 2 were on the other hand, and certain conclusions were simply voted out that could be bad, I have already mentioned the case. I think it's pretty good here. We don't have to say anything to work here with some argument of power. If this is for some power arguments. If most of the argument is power, then we're wrong in here, and then we don't know what else we're doing. Most people are just going to make decisions. The vote will, so it has already decided, and I hope it will be again, I see no reason. But that now a minority of us who are here, who is only a coalition, if it has a majority, and that some minority would lower this majority, then I don't know what we can do now, a new election or just give up that majority. I think you have some weird arguments for that sort of thing, and it's just really banal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. The main message I want to tell you is that this law starts to involve politics in education. This law will strengthen the influence of education. I am aware that the interpretations as to whether it is a ratio of 6 to 5 members in the world or whether it is 6 to 3 or 3 or 3 is 3-3, but the indisputable fact is that these three representatives appointed by the policy will have a greater impact, according to the new proposal, because 3 of 9 will have a greater share, instead of 3 of 11. And these are the facts. It is not right to strengthen the influence of politics in school, it is certainly wrong for the school to learn and to educate. And the world of the school, I agree that it does not directly interfere in the profession, in the teaching itself, but the school council decides on the principal. And we have good schools, and we have schools that are a little less good. In all cases where the school is good, the principal is responsible. When school is a little less good to say no to bad, it's the principal's fault. And this makes it all the more important that directors choose mainly on the basis of professional arguments and not political ones. The Director, who will be selected on the basis of professional criteria and professional arguments, will also give priority to these criteria in his work. Finally, its human resources policy will focus on positive selection and will require its teachers to give priority to the profession, not to anything else. Unlike managers who will take their place on the political line, they will also be politically dependent and will make their decisions more political. We have representatives of three different groups in the world and therefore three different interests. The interests of teachers and the indirect influence of teachers, yes, I agree that in many cases they support administrators who require less of them. We have the interest of our parents and the influence of our parents. Of course, we can find parents here who want the best possible certificate in the end, not a lot of knowledge, especially in the certificates that then decide to continue their education. And, of course, we also have representatives of the municipalities and their interests. However, once again to conclude, it remains undeniable that with the changed ratio of representatives in holy kindergartens and schools, politics is gaining influence because it will have 3 out of 9 instead of now having 3 out of 11 representatives. Personally, this does not seem right to me, just as it did not seem right when the impact of policy was strengthened in the scientific research institutions, which we have already had the opportunity to see and indirectly in all other spheres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich. Mr. Germich is earlier, I've overlooked, I'm sorry. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, once again. I would like to comment on the fact that Mrs State Secretary said why we are assessing that the founders are of little value. I do not think we have ever said that the founders are of little value, for the law does not interfere with the part where the founders would play any role. And to say that the responsibility of the one who has to assume his share of responsibility is unnecessary, irrelevant, or necessary to reduce it. We are just trying to justify that the law goes in a completely different direction, taking the meaning and role of teachers, because only at this point is the number in the world, so the number of teachers from 5 to 3. But if we're still talking about high school, we can also know that the number of students is still decreasing in the school world. This means that logic is the opposite, so it's not about trying to talk to me about marriage being bad, because it takes a role for the founders or parents, no, not at all. We point out, however, that the law takes on the role and importance of the teacher and ask the proposer why and by what reason does the proposer justify this, as there is no analysis, that the functioning of the worlds would be an obstacle to the development of the school system in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, you have not been able to substantiate these claims, which we, as a matter of fact, refer to you as the proposer of this law. You're talking about how partners need to be connected even better. Is it true that your assessment that partners are now not qualitatively connected and that only by reducing the number of teachers in the world and removing themselves from the worlds of high school students will you create the conditions for a quality connection of partners in sacred schools. On the basis of what arguments do you think the partnership will now be more and that the partnership will be better? And that the professional decisions that will be passed on from the expert bodies to the world - do you think that there will be no content in the components of the annual work plans, which will also be linked to the professional work at school? Do you estimate that the introduction of superstandard programmes will not be based on professional decisions? And that there's no interlacing here, or is there a very tight interlacing? And once again, once again, when you talk about this majority and minority today, teachers in the world, as has been the case so far, have had 5 cities, and since 11 this is not the majority. I hope that we know so much simple elementary mathematics that we can calculate the percentage and we can imagine in this percentage that something less than half is less than the whole. My colleague Moge will be able to do this with the theory of the masses, and with what else, I'm trying to say it myself with the simple logic of mathematics. And when we talk about it, then clearly the only question is: why are we afraid of the presence of a teacher in the world, and the share that represents a minority in the world is greater than you suggest with this change of law. And, of course, the rationale can be completely simple: it will be significantly easier to make decisions in such a world, perhaps those that will be more bound to political arguments than to what should be mostly or mostly or only - those are the professional criteria that will be established through partnership. And this partnership, by taking on the number of teachers in the world, will not be improved, it will not be strengthened, but in my opinion weaken it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u156	Your Honor! I would like to stress one important thing very concretely and very responsibly. Throughout today, I am listening to colleagues from Liberal Democracy, as well as several debaters from the Social Democrats, how we are trying to build trust in teachers through this law. I'm sure what you're saying, colleagues, is not true, and I don't see this basis anywhere in this marriage. I'm sure it's a'scramen' lie in Parliament. You are again trying to mislead the Slovenian public in your own way, in a suitable way. And dear fellows, perhaps I could remind you of one more thing. When we look at the director's powers, because we talked a lot about the principal today, among other things, the director has the power to propose the advancement of professional workers in titles, to decide on the progress of employees in payment classes, to decide on working relationships and on the disciplinary responsibility of workers, so the director, according to my assessment, has a direct impact on teachers. Now, if we look at the matter from this point of view, the minister is set politically, so the minister must give his consent under this law to appoint a director, an opinion. And it is said that there is certainly a strong policy impact on the director, on the appointment of the director. Now, the director who was appointed along this route is, of course, also choosing employees or employees within this institution. And then it is clear how policy has affected the appointment of directors in the past. And now I understand why you are so opposed to this change in the composition of the school world because you want to preserve what is the legacy of the past in schools. And I'm sure the teachers have nothing to do with it, and I'm asking you once again not to deceive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think that's why it's not the right thing to do. The facts are that today we are discussing people with different views on education in this country, and the ruling coalition has decided to replace a balanced and functioning system of world structures. Now we have also heard an argument that says we are afraid of change. No, it's much worse. We are opposed to this change. We oppose it because there is no change for the better, it is the drop-down of the decision-making standard in the public school system, because this system is not a state, a sub-level that has already been achieved. At two points, this is seen from the moon, so that the emissaries can walk around Slovenia and explain it differently. Two entities in these worlds are losing. Instead of the five votes so far, he has a teacher after three. And instead of the two votes we have so far, the students have gone on to say no. Let him know who can. Only a certain type of approach can understand this as progress. And you're doing it all for one reason, obviously, because there can't be another smart guy here. It is a motive to gain the position of decision-making power in that part of the decision-making process in the world where the appointment of directors and directors is concerned. The mimicry, which is brought down through the Minister's withdrawal from direct consent, does not speak of anything other than your experience of standing upright and saying, I do not agree here because there were no arguments for those disagreements which were publicly said that arguments were too difficult for this. Let me remind you that in the National Assembly, if I only knew what kind of person the Minister didn't give her consent to, the head of the Board of Directors would be the one who didn't get the consent, they wouldn't doubt for a second that it was justified not to give him consent. A few months later, the same person was given his consent. How is that possible? One way or another. The first argument was not true; obviously, this person was not at issue, so now withdrawing into the field of opinion means only that they will decide. Probably 90% of the principals and principals will be named according to normal procedures, there will be no political involvement, but where punishment is needed, there will be an opinion that this person is not appropriate. This is going to happen, but it doesn't have to be hidden so strongly, because in this coalition, and today more or less in most of this coalition, everyone already knows what time it is when it comes to putting people up, and here we have a simple operation at work. It is right that we understand that we are sacrificing important potentials, first of all the potential of students and students who could learn to manage in these worlds. They will not learn it because they will have exactly 0 representatives there, or they will know what they cannot afford when they eventually have to decide for themselves elsewhere. And secondly, the teacher's power was taken away from him, and it was not given to him. This Parliament has, of course, confirmed it by law at another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I supported this law because it reduced the influence of a minister who did not give consent to the appointment of a director, although the candidate or candidate had 100% of the support of the teaching choir. But when I listen to this debate today and the reasons why this law should be good, I have come to the conclusion that it is trying to achieve the same in a different way and nothing else. Because of this law I will not support and agree with the veto of the State Council, for when someone can only because he has the majority, he does what he wants, even if it is bad, then I leave the decision to the profession, which has mostly supported the veto of the National Assembly or demanded that what we have adopted not happen. And in this case, if we insist on this law, we do nothing but ignore the majority of teachers, express their distrust, and at the same time expect that the school will work better, including directors who will be challenged by the teaching assembly, who are not supported by the teaching assembly, but supported by parents and founders, where we can have only their own people, who will freely choose on the laity basis of the majority, who will be responsible for the profession. I also believe that all those who defended this law with an argument as to how parents should take the greatest responsibility for the operation of the school have in mind that the roof does not leave or that the heating will run as it should, and that the cleaning will run as it should be. Because if they thought anything else, then it's like if patients came to a doctor, they said, you're a good doctor, if you're gonna treat me the way I think you are, even though I don't know what I'm talking about. And of course I don't accept things like that. I admit that on the school system, according to the content of the teacher's work, I do not know enough to assess it, but I believe them and trust them, my children have been properly raised and taught. I have no reason to express to them the majority distrust of over 21,000 signatures that we are doing something that is not good. But of course we have the majority, and I agree with that, but in this majority I will not participate. And so I repeat, I will not support the marriage. It would be wise to listen to the security mechanism of the State Council, which takes the time and will to judge our actions. I guess we're not so strong that we're always right, and here and there, it would also show some kind of law to reconsider and remedy the weaknesses that we're almost not absolutely proven, and most of us think we can do what we want, and we keep doing it over and over again. That we are not always right because of the majority is evidence in as many as six, seven cases of the Constitutional Court's decision to go too far. We have opposed these laws as coalition partners and have experienced the criticism of a weak article, the lack of consistency in the functioning of the coalition at our expense, and so forth, rather than admit to us a strong sensitivity in this sense that we know where we can not violate constitutional rights, and that we do not go too far in solutions just because we have a quality majority and we can do what we want. I don't want to do what I want or what only I want to do, but what's good for those outside, for people, for our children, for our schools, for our health system and the like. And in this sense, it is right that, at last, the coalition would ask itself about its conduct and not admit defeat, but admit that it thinks in a way that is not only about the use of power, but also about the use of arguments and, of course, respects expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you. He wants a government representative? No, no, no. Representative of the State Council? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the vote, after the end of the 20th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON THE RESPONSIBLE PROPERTY OF DOGS AND EQUIVATION WITH DANGEROUS DOGS. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Borut Saiovic. With regard to this law, the Group of 10 Members and Members with the first Magi signed. Borut Saiovic demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the applicant for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Saiovic, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, guests, fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues! More and more stories about dog incidents need to be done, so as a proposal for a bill on responsible dog ownership and the treatment of dangerous dogs, I want to start with a positive case in Slovenia. For two decades, the Slovenian Society for Animal Therapy, the so-called Ambassadors of Smile, has been working for us to promote animal therapy and thus indirectly what we are talking about today is a responsible attitude towards animals. For example, members of society visit children and older people in various institutions, nursing homes, institutions for blind and visually impaired youth, schools for children with mental disabilities. They wrote on the website that they want to make a smile on their face, even if just for a moment, as it is often accompanied by severe pain, sadness, loneliness or boredom in the background. This must be one of the most noble aspects of the thousand-year relationship between man and dog, so-called best friend, as we have the habit of saying. In the media, however, we most often follow only bad incidents, cases of this relationship, when dogs attack and harm animals or humans, but we forget that dogs have many positive sides to breed and own. In addition to the already mentioned therapy, dogs also play a social and protective role. In particular, this needs to be taken into account in cases where there is a problem with the behaviour of dogs or their owners in public places where other people or their animals are at risk or even threatened with health and safety. As a proponent of the Law on Responsible Possession of Dogs and the Treatment of Dangerous Dogs, I believe that the problems with inappropriate, aggressive and obsessive behaviour of dogs stem mainly from inadequate socialisation of dogs, which makes these dogs at least temporarily unfit for urban living. The fact is that certain species of dogs are more dangerous than others, mainly because of their physical and genetic characteristics, such as broad jaw combat dogs, a highly developed chewing muscle that have a strong threshold of pain, or dogs that have been raised for centuries to fight or attack humans. Since the dog is what its owner wants, it is a mirror of its owner, we have also derived from the principle of responsible ownership in the preparation of the law, and we have specified this by proposing that for owners of certain species and those dogs that have already been attacked by an unauthorized attack, it is mandatory to obtain a licence to deal with dangerous dogs. In particular, we want to improve the knowledge and awareness of dog owners of the importance of adequate and non-violent dog training, of measures to reduce the possibility of urban incidents, when the dog is in contact with other people and their animals. At the same time, the law also proposes more measures for those cases where dog attacks have already taken place and are repeated. This is compulsory education and training of a dangerous dog in an authorised organisation, safety measures to prevent any new attack by a dangerous dog with such simple matters as the use of a hood and leash on public surfaces, temporary ban on the surrender or sale of such a dog, temporary removal of a dangerous dog and its accommodation in the isolation of a selected private veterinary organisation with a concession, and in the event that socialisation is not successful, even unfortunately euthanasia. The government opinion on the proposal of our law is expected to be negative. The government considers the marriage to be general, immaculate, incomplete and imprecise. However, I am convinced that he is much more comprehensive and precise than what the Government is proposing in the amendment to the Animal Protection Act. We're talking about protecting people in this story. Even in the opinion of experts, solving the problem of dangerous dogs and their irresponsible owners does not belong to a law that generally regulates the protection of animals, including chapters such as transport, slaughter, experimental animals, shelters and the like. The growing fact that this area needs to be resolved as quickly and accurately as possible, we are finally reminded of two cases in recent weeks, namely the attack of two pit bulls in Maribor and two Rottweilers on the coast. Their victims were older people and smaller animals. It's only a matter of time before someone can't fight these attacks. Therefore, it is our shared responsibility to take this issue seriously, soberly and responsibly, especially apolitically.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The problem of dangerous dogs and dog attacks is likely to exist at the time of domestication and has not changed significantly in the last period. But the attitude of the media and the public to this issue has changed. This year's event, which took place in Ljubljana, when the Bulmastiffs almost ended the vanguard, reminded us of last year's Rottweiler attack on Ljubecna and reopened some questions. What stimulates dog aggression, there are safeguards in the legislation that would take dogs away from bride owners, or can some breeds be branded "dangerous"? Answers to such and similar questions were sought by the applicant in the Proposal for a Law on Responsible Possession of Dogs and the Treatment of Dangerous Dogs. While we welcome the fact in our Group of Members and follow the initiative of the Applicant to contribute to responsible ownership of dogs, to responsible and patient behaviour of all those who move or live in the vicinity of dogs, and thus to a greater degree of legal certainty. However, we note that, despite seemingly good provisions, those are largely misplaced, sceptical and leave open questions which should be regulated by law in such a law. When dealing with this problem and when drawing up provisions, of course, it is necessary to specify first what a dangerous dog is. It is a very clear and unequivocal concept that soon turns out to be everything before that. The simplest solution to this problem is to define the danger as a result of the belonging of certain bands and such definition has also been taken by the proposer, but the DeSUS Members estimate that the breach is not the most appropriate, because it does not actually correspond to the actual state and knowledge of the profession dealing with this problem and as such does not contribute to solving this problem, in fact a much more complex problem. The implementation of laws based on such an approach also turns out to be very problematic and difficult in practice. We believe that the definition of a dangerous dog must be formulated in a generic manner, in accordance with the knowledge of the profession and in such a way that the power of the law is also implemented in practice. It is also important that it works preventively and in general. And the proposal separates dogs into dangerous and dangerous breeds instead of talking about dangerous dogs in our opinion. However, a dangerous dog can be a dog of any breed if it is raised incorrectly or if it is not raised at all. True, attacks by certain dogs may be worse because they are structurally stronger, have a stronger bite, but this does not mean that a poodle or a German shepherd cannot harm you; and most bites are caused by dangerous gold bearers, not dogs of so-called dangerous breeds. In addition, it should be noted that in Slovenia there are only about 10% of breed dogs, all the others are mixed. So, the new bill provides for a license for owners of so-called dangerous breeds, and here the question is, what does it mean for dogs that have non-family dogs of these breeds, these are official mixtures, and what does it mean for owners who have dogs that are mixed with this breed. The fact is, whoever buys a breeding dog is still a little more familiar with the breed, and most owners of breeding dogs are also schools and these dogs generally do not cause problems. So, then, who will benefit from this law? In view of the fact that we will not support such a proposal in the DeSUS Group of Members, we also estimate that such a prepared law would not be a viable success in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I think the need to regulate the treatment of dangerous dogs has sparked recent events, attacks on humans. However, I must say that ever since living together with the oldest domesticated animal, man has faced this problem. And it's the law that defines certain breeds of dangerous dogs. However, we believe that the dog’s behavior is a reflection of his owner or what the owner taught him, how he is protected, how he is cared for. And in this law there is nothing specific or defined as to what happens to dogs without a relative who have different parental origins, what happens if the offspring of a dangerous father and a harmless mother is still the influence of the parent’s upbringing or conduct, whether his wild nature. We know fighting dogs who are trained to cope with the dangers of nature as well, shepherd dogs must be able to deal with a bear, with a wolf, and yet the owner must at the same time make sure that it is not dangerous for the environment. Nor does the bill provide for the exact meaning of serious bodily harm in animals attacked by such a dog. Then there are some concerns about the jurisdiction of the Kinological Union, and there is no legal basis for its influence. The bill also regulates the education and training of dangerous dogs, which is not sufficiently complete and unclear. In particular, no clearly defined veterinary action or over-authorisation may be given to the veterinarian. Because of all the concerns we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and in particular because of the preparation of the Animal Protection Act, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u168	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed colleague of my mags. Borut Saiovic, of course, is one of the more important laws that we consider in the National Assembly. We know that perhaps the time is such that we think about all other matters, but that is how the leadership of the National Assembly decided and is now put to the debate. The law or bill is also an answer to all those who, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, have repeatedly pointed out that we are not or we do not know how to be constructive opposition. Unfortunately, this mandate has not yet happened, and it is likely that this time it will be by listening carefully to the coalition, examining our proposals, and instead of dialogue, we have only one rejection, or monologue, in the temple of democracy and convincing the convinced. There have been many such cases. I would not list everyone, but it was a primary school to finance education and education, an asbestos law, measures to reduce pollution with dust particles in the upper Mežiški valley, not to continue until the Law on Religious Communities, which, of course, was rejected with disgust, and the present is in some quasi hibernation. The bill may contain some minor shortcomings or inconsistencies to which an answer could be found in another law, but this is certainly a law on responsible dog ownership and the treatment of dangerous dogs. This month we've had a case of two dogs being released, no dog fights in the park, attacking two older women. Two Rottweilers were torn apart by several domestic animals at night at home. We have quite a group of people who are dangerous and, on the other hand, because of the irresponsible behavior of dogs, the most injuries to those breeds that we consider to be dangerous, such as Labradors. So there was also a huge question in writing this law, what is considered dangerous, dangerous breeds, from an extreme point of view, that every dog with more than 20 kilograms is dangerous, and, of course, to the fact that no dog is dangerous if well-bred. The truth is probably in the middle of it, and in fact the will and desire of this law to regulate these matters is said to ensure greater public safety while, of course, improving awareness of the owners of dogs, dogs and non-pasms, large, small and so on, as well as of all other people who find themselves in a situation where, of course, something could happen, where dogs or other animals and humans are involved. If I say briefly what I think is most important, especially because the interpretations of this law are very intentional at times; the law does not prohibit any of the bands, prohibits the movement of dogs in public places, but proposes or introduces protection, very carefully developed protective measures to prevent incidents and prevent repeated dog attacks. The red thread of this law is to ensure greater safety and promote responsible ownership of dogs. It's also called knowledge, education, and that's what we all want. It means not repression, not destruction, not destruction, not hunting dogs and not bullying owners, but what will enable a safe life and a coexistence of man and animal. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that this legal text is in fact designed as a proposal and that it will be given in further discussions in a more qualitative, more precise, comprehensive and even more modern way, such as the proposal. It is certainly better than the novel that comes on the agenda of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, since it is comprehensive and takes into account everything that has proved to be important in solving this relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Socialist Group of Members, we agree with the proposaler, today's bill, that this increasingly pressing area needs to be regulated by law. In doing so, we point out that most of the problems are hidden in dog owners and not so much in dogs that are dangerous surroundings. The law accurately lists breeds as dangerous dogs, or it typifies them. This goes on to add that other breeds can also be dangerous to the environment if they are raised for defence purposes, not to say that they are being raised aggressively. The problem is that everyone else is classified as more dangerous only when they commit an act by which it can be concluded that they are aggressive and dangerous to the environment. Under this law, the owners of dangerous dogs will have to obtain a license. Prior to that, they will participate in the education to be provided by the Minister responsible for Veterinary Affairs. This will certainly help to ensure that dog owners are familiar with the way in which they are raised, which will mean that their dog will not endanger the environment. This also takes into account other animals that may be victims of an attack. Cinological societies are already conducting education, but it is true that it is not mandatory for so-called dangerous dogs and not for their owners. Regrettably, only education will not be sufficient. Many will attend it exclusively in order to obtain a license, and then everything will be the same. The only difference will be that they will have a license to refer to when the conflict occurs. So it will be very important to control - the controls that are under way today. Dog owners don't follow the law, we let them walk free. Unfortunately, money sanctions are still the most effective. Many people also remind us of the problems they face in multi-housing facilities, where they also encounter dogs in a small space that can be dangerous to the environment. Meeting a dog, for example, in an elevator is not a pleasant experience. However, they also have comments regarding the recording of domestic animals that are in their premises and cause certain costs that are then settled by everyone, but that is not the content of today's law. An important novelty of this law is the duty to report an attack by a dog on a man or domestic or breeding animal to the owner or guardian of a dog. Even more important is the regime that defines further procedures for action, i.e. after this attack has already taken place. According to our assessment, the bill is a good basis for further consideration, although the Government opposes it in its opinion and notes that the reasons for the law are not reflected in the text of the proposed law itself. This can be remedied in the second reading. And given that the Government is not a candidate, it can prepare amendments to improve the proposed law. We will also draw up some amendments in the Social Democrats Group if, of course, the law receives the necessary support today. As I said, we will vote in the Socialist Group of Members that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, Prime Minister, colleague and colleague! On behalf of New Slovenia, I would first like to ask my fellow Member Mag. I told Sayovic, thank you very much for introducing this proposal of the law, and thus drawing attention to the problem that is evident today, appears and, above all, poses a security threat. Most of the time, children are the most at risk. However, I would say that, of course, these injuries are no more than they used to be, only that they are much more visible in the media and are therefore even more widely presented in the public. But I know when I started working as a veterinarian, there were a lot more of these bites than there is today. This is also the case in this area. This law lists dangerous breeds of dogs, but I say so myself, and I'm sure that actually dangerous dogs are all dogs. None of the cases could have been listed when dogs fell to their owners, that is to say, those who carry their food every day are in contact with the dog. But at some point, the dog lost that profile and attacked the owner. I also recently experienced that the neighbor's dog, who is always with us and who we give him food when I adored a two-year-old neighbor, fell on me. These are just moments, and from this point of view, of course, every dog is actually dangerous. It is true, however, that some dogs are more genetically inclined to do so, and also this explanation suggests that because of the stronger structure of jaw musculatures, they can cause significantly greater damage. For this reason, also in New Slovenia, we think that it is actually that they are not dangerous dogs, but that they are dangerous owners of dogs. It happens to us that always the same owners have these problems and that their dogs actually cause damage because owners do not protect the environment properly from their dogs. Owners' training, licensing is definitely in place. Although the government's bill says it's dog training, I know that if a dog goes to some supplementary education, it has to go with the owners. We used to talk about dogs mainly in connection with rabies and all the prevention, as far as dogs are concerned, was focused on prevention due to the repetition of this severe and severe disease, which was sometimes very common in our places. In the Republic of Slovenia, I think the last case of so-called urban rabies was recorded in 1959. As you all know, rabies is a deadly disease, there is no help, but in some parts of the world, it is interesting that it is still spreading in some parts of the world. A few days ago, I heard that I had just remembered that in China about 60 people died a month because of rabies. Thus, this is information that tells us what is the situation in which certain parts of this world live, while in some parts of the world there has never been a rabies. We still have silicate rabies, and that's the form that makes the dogs get vaccinated every year. As you know, we also vaccinate foxes because when the fox population increases, then there is also the emergence of silicate rabies and then there is a greater possibility of transfer within domestic animals, especially dogs. When vaccinated and vaccinated against rabies, dogs are also recorded. This registration has not yet been fully refined, but as in the proposal prepared by the Government by this proposal, this area will be further regulated. Thus, the register of dogs will be completed through registration and it will be known who are the owners of those dogs that end up as abandoned dogs and for which the municipality must provide adequate protection. I heard at the pre-election time that one of the main themes of the Maribor election campaign was the care of protecting abandoned dogs. So it's also one of the big problems. The proposal of the Ministry or the government proposal is already coalitionly coordinated and also addresses this area. In addition to what the colleague Saiovic has proposed, solutions to some other areas as well as to the protection of other types of domestic animals are being extended. Therefore, in Novi Slovenija we estimate that it is no use at this time to continue with this proposal, which has been submitted by colleague Sajevic, because this is contained in the government proposal, which, as I have already said, has also been extended by some solutions to some other areas. And if we refuse this proposal today, we will make room for this to be addressed as soon as possible by the government. We will therefore vote against this proposal in New Slovenia. Saivica, although I have to say once again that the proposal itself as such is not bad, it is not comprehensive, because it is only a more partial area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u173	Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr President, Madam Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The problem of appropriate treatment of dogs and especially dangerous dogs is not new. Serious thinking in the direction that something must be done has certainly encouraged an event from a few months ago, in which dogs in Ljubljana seriously damaged the passing traveler. Since this has happened in Ljubljana, it is appropriate to look at what the Ljubljana City Inspection has responded to the question of the orderliness of this area. Because the city inspection exercises control over the treatment of dogs by decree, which says they must be malleable on the rope and wear tippers. The Regulation on the Protection of Pets provides that dangerous dogs are to be considered as dogs which have accidentally been bitten, attacked or attacked once or more, and that dangerous dogs must be on a leash and carry a tipper on public surfaces. The surveillance shall be carried out by the veterinary, agricultural, fishing inspector and nature-preservation inspectors, as well as by police officers. Detained dogs, according to inspectors, are half of those without clues and without escorts, and are a major threat from the position of strength, hygiene, disease and human safety. In 2003, in the area of Ljubljana, 2025 people visited health institutions due to a dog bite or a blow. However, it is difficult to display the number of fear and mental damage caused by scars and other consequences of such bites or encounters with dogs. The problem of dangerous dogs is therefore still very serious, especially because dog owners do not comply with the rules on wearing hoods and other measures that would be necessary for greater safety against dangerous dogs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, after the above-mentioned attack on dogs in Ljubljana, we drew attention to the issue and tried to obtain information from the competent services on whether the relevant legislation might be being drawn up, which would systematically regulate this area and also ensure effective control over potential violators of this legislation. On the Veterinary Board of the Republic of Slovenia we were informed that changes to the Animal Protection Act are being prepared, which will also deal in more detail with the problem of dangerous dogs. In addition, we must stress that the proposal for a law amending the Animal Protection Act is already in the procedure of this National Assembly, following a reduced procedure. Unfortunately, the State or government law, which is actually written to protect animals, expects an attack or bite to occur instead of focusing more on prevention. We would therefore need legislation focused on the protection of people and their health. The Slovenian People's Party has devoted a lot of attention to the problem of dangerous dogs. One of the activities was the round table, which was organised in Ljubljana a long time ago, organised by the municipal board of SLS, and attended by various experts from various fields. A whole series of proposals were made to list only a few: that a change of attitude towards the environment and people is necessary, the education of owners and not just dogs, the wide education of adults, schools and education of adults, the reduction of the number of dogs, in particular those of dogs. Compared to the funds we give to foster children, the amount for dogs without owners is too great. Minimum conditions should be laid down for a dog, such as the appropriate space that a breeder or dog owner must have, too many dogs cannot be in blocks. So this is a problem that needs to be addressed. The objectives pursued by the proposal for a law on responsible dog ownership and treatment of dangerous dogs must certainly be achieved. From this point of view, it is necessary to recognise my colleague Saiovic for drafting the bill that we are considering today. Unfortunately, at the same time, we find in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the proposal for a law on multiples is flawed and incomplete. In our view, a key flaw is its inadequacy, since such a law can be good only if it allows or ensures effective control. Unfortunately, this proposed or today's law does not provide for this. However, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, which is already in the procedure, as already mentioned in the National Assembly, is better from the point of view of control. The guiding first principle of the amendment of this law is to define more clearly the liability of the dog owner for the consequences caused by their dogs with a bite regardless of the dog breed. The second principle followed by the proposal is to increase prevention against dog bites by an additional obligation on the dog owner that dogs in public places must be led on the leash and that dangerous dogs must also be equipped with baits, in the event of a re-attemptive dog bite, and in the case of compulsory training of its dangerous dog. The applicant shall provide for a third principle to ensure that procedures are carried out as quickly as possible in the event of a suspicion of causing a particular serious injury or death of a person, the removal of a dog, the installation in isolation centres, the execution of a dog, the short time limit for the complaint, as provided for under the general rules for such purposes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have considered both proposals for a law: one that we are considering today and the amendment to the Animal Protection Act. On this basis, we have decided not to support the proposal for a law on responsible dog ownership and the treatment of dangerous dogs. We believe that the Novela Act on the protection of animals is better, in particular in terms of better definition and specificity and clarity, which is a prerequisite for effective control, and we will certainly be actively involved members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group in its consideration in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Aurelio Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll support the bill. I think my colleague Saiovic has put a lot of effort into it. It is evident that he consulted not only the veterinary profession but also the kinology. I ask, and it may also be very important to know further whether the part of civil society that is concerned that animals are not tortured is the Society against Animal Torture, and who else, or to watch that our pets grow up with us and make us a pleasant society, protect us even if we want to, without becoming dangerous to others. The doctrine of "hazardous dogs" or "hazardous breeds" itself does not seem to me to be the happiest, but I accept it because it is more practical to use. What colleague Kontič said became dangerous dogs when owners treated them inappropriately. I'm also, if I say "at personam", the owner of a dog that weighs 60 kilograms, and when you see it, it might seem dangerous to you -- what kind of mixture I probably find somewhere else, but between the dog and the Labrador -- when you meet him, you see that he's a real kitten. And he never put anyone in a dangerous situation, although of course he plays his role as a tutor of the yard and when a stranger, a postman, or anyone else approaches, of course jumps. What's a big step forward in this law is, I think, a license. And here I am, a supporter of perhaps even sharper receptions. In order to ensure that so-called dangerous dogs, dangerous breeds that are raised and raised to cause harm to someone, attack that they are treated as some kind of weapon. If a person acquires a gun or any other weapon to protect himself, the owner of a dog like that would have to have the same license to protect him by perhaps attacking an alleged attacker. Some also raise dogs to play with them in some battles, in fights - with us, as far as I know, it is forbidden - but the rearing and training of such a dog is not yet regulated. We know that there are also certain drug dealers who, because of their unusual business, also help themselves by having such dangerous dogs with them. And all of this should be regulated by law in this attempt. That's why I think that writing down a license and preparing for it is something inevitable for such an owner to be properly educated, that even a dog school is something inevitable. And we should start as soon as possible. I miss the control system myself. This is the great flaw in this marriage, but it can be completed in the next stages. I also believe that the terms of Articles 26 and 27 concerning the acquisition of a licence and the compulsory training of so-called dangerous dogs are real-time. It is, however, a question of how we will deal with those, and how we will subject them to respect for this law, which somehow slips out of this control, which is not in the records that we see, but we do not see, but we do not really know what is with them. There are many, many such owners, many such dogs. I certainly call on the coalition that, while we do not have a better solution, we don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I'm not sure that in that other law that's supposed to be in the procedure of animal protection, we're going to sort it out. To try and see in this law some basis that needs to be worked out. The government should also use its solutions in the next phase to correct or supplement it. As colleague Bojan Kontič said, if the bill was supported, we will also see to it that it is also involved in the monitoring and good implementation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I must say that I am disappointed that, in fact, the obvious coalition of this law will not support it, as it was understood from the discussions in the introduction. Above all, I am also disappointed at the Government's opinion on this law, because the arguments I have read precisely and which speak of why the law is not suitable for further consideration have by no means convinced me and seem to me quite attracted to the hair, but in the style of what my fellow Member has already mentioned, that the law has not been prepared again by the right man. While I am glad that many of you have praised today the colleague of Saiovic, who has prepared this law, and I think that if the will was right, and I regret that your will is not, in all the events that we know and detect, in particular, those that are more present at local levels, that you do not actually complete this law or that we do not all correct it together and that it comes to it as soon as possible. The law shall bear the title and shall be linked to the ownership of the person responsible. I am sure that in Slovenia there is really little responsible ownership not only of dogs but of all domestic animals. This, of course, is especially true of the congregations to which you have placed your concern for the majority of the animals rejected, for many want an animal, and then they buy it when they are ousted from it without any responsibility. And then it falls on the shoulders of the congregations, which then also have to provide financially for these discarded animals. This is also responsible ownership and I feel that Slovenia has not done enough, given the number and popularity of all animals, to actually become responsible owners of our citizens and citizens. In this sense, I think it is necessary to say that there is no way we can get past anything we have already turned to it, and I think that today no one has ever said that according to official data we are recording around 1200 and a few more bites per year, according to the data I also found on the media that I have been investigating, how many people are looking for medical help, it was to see that in 2005, I think 2005, about 5,000 people were looking for medical help, which means that this number is huge. This is also told by various articles, where, in fact, a few of these little larger affairs come out every month. In this sense, it seems to me that the law is appropriate, appropriate, because it has taken some middle way. It's not a law that forbids dangerous breeds, like we can track anywhere else in the world. Last but not least, if my data are accurate, a few bands, not all of them listed in this law, but only education and compulsory education, they prohibit at least two breeds in Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, Sweden and so on. In short, many countries have been able to regulate this even more rigorously, while the proposal that we have drawn up at the LDS is much more liberal. He tries, even the last attempt to say, to knock on the conscience of the owners and on their responsible ownership, which I think is necessary, because, in my opinion, no dog is a dangerous dog, but he becomes a dangerous dog, proud of being raised by a man or because he doesn't actually raise him because he neglects him. And it seems to me that it is necessary to protect dogs from irresponsible owners, including dogs. But if, of course, I am thinking about who is, above all, the endangered population, which will still not receive any real protection, I think that these are mainly children and older people, and that it would be necessary to allow certain protection in fact and also protection in this way, because the law will not regulate these things. This is a long-term process, similar to another story that is taking place in Slovenia at the moment, it is a long-term process of raising people's awareness and it seems to me that this law is a big step forward, because where is the place for owners to learn how to treat dogs and I don't think it says anywhere that there are only dangerous breeds, as some of you have said. This law speaks of dangerous dogs, and of course never and never dangerous dogs are only dog dogs, but it is clear that others are also dangerous. Last but not least, according to the information I have in Slovenia, the most bites by the breed are the golden bearer, which is actually the most, if you say with some lay eyes, even a nice dog. Most of these bites are probably the most, but this clearly shows that even such a dog can become dangerous under inappropriate parenting. The dog is a reflection of the owner and his behaviour, and in this sense, it seems to me that the licensing proposed by this law is not a license as such, but rather an education of owners, an awareness of people who choose to have an animal, extremely and urgently. But what I have to say, especially about the government, is that a few things really got into my memory, and I would also like to argue with them. I think that most of the arguments about some imprecise dictions, inaccuracies, inaccuracies, indeterminable concepts, could absolutely be upgraded by another treatment that is obviously not going to happen, and I think that we are doing this problem harm. However, I would also like to point out that the Government says that the prohibition on the rearing, breeding, possession and management of dogs, which are defined as dangerous, is mainly controlled by the police or by a specially established supervisory authority. I have to say, we're really out of luck with this police force. I don't think there's anything else he can handle, except that the police are dealing with things like orders to regulate and monitor dangerous dogs, records and the like. I think that in the last year, we can actually see that in all segments, the police have been doing their duties poorly at many points. I have to say that in addition to informing them where some dogs or animals are being driven, because some major activity has not been detected in the direction of an active role, and I don't think it's the right place to say that, I'll say, this authority has been given to the police. It seems to me that the law provides better solutions and I think it is also a rather demeaning attitude towards the kinological union, which is also accepted by international organisations, and I think it is a highly structured and organised institution that could in some way also be given a state license to regulate and manage these matters. However, in keeping records of dangerous dogs, this would also be appropriate, as proposed for us, at the level of veterinary services. If I may conclude, I don't think we'll get a proper marriage for a long time. I will be very happy if this happens soon - I think this is such a vague forecast - which would arrange it at least as well as the proposal we have on the table that could be completed, accepted next month and started in Slovenia slowly, I will say, the responsibility of the owners, but otherwise obviously we need the victim. In Slovenia, when the first victim, perhaps also fatal, I think there were only 6 deaths in the United States in November 2006. I think we need a death victim obviously, and then we'll move when Trenja is and when there's similar pressure on the public, and at this point there's obviously no such desire. And if I paraphrase the proverb, then I can say, dogs bite and bite, and the caravan will obviously move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you. The representative of the Government, Mrs Čadonic Špelič, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to answer her question to the honourable Members of the Cvetka Zalokar Orazam because she has expressed her wish for controversy and Mr President of the National Assembly allows me to do so. In response to the Government, the lady understood that the police, or a specific body, were in control of the breeding, consultation and training of dogs in our country. I apologize if we may have been careless in the preparation of this opinion, but if we had read this second paragraph well, we thought we would explain with this sentence the first sentence which says that some European Union countries have this area regulated by banning certain breeds of dogs, but in particular we wanted to point out that European legislation in this area is not uniform and leaves Member States to decide their own. In those countries where certain breeds of dogs are prohibited, as the Member State has also listed some countries, it is true that the implementation of this ban is controlled by the police, somewhere they have a special specialised police force, which is this special body we are talking about, and in this opinion we have written to the Government that in many countries such as Austria, Germany, Italy is free from this control even to local communities. In addition to the veterinary inspection, we also have the police in the part that discusses the obligations of keeping dangerous dogs on leashes and with a tipper. So what has now been written in the Government's opinion and what the Member has given as an example is meant for those countries that already have a ban, this ban on dog breeding within the European Union and also in the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Homan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. We have before us a bill on responsible dog ownership and dealing with dangerous dogs. I'd like to point out here what the owner's responsibility is to the dog. Let me get back to the beginning when the owner chooses the dog. I don't know if many people here today realize that a decision for a dog requires a weighty decision and that they are also aware of the financial consequences. If someone buys a dog today, a dog has a life expectancy of 10 to 15 years, that's about enough. From a million and a half to two million tolars like that. I've been buying a dog every month. Ten grand for quality food, veterinary examination, two vaccinations a year, making a dog, schooling. This is a year strong over 150,000 tolars. Then how to pick a dog. This is a big problem in Slovenia today, because a lot of people want a dog, and they don't even know where to turn, which dog. You can watch the adverts, if you're calling for a C.I.A., they'll tell you something, but where exactly they'd send you, what kind of dog to pick out to show you the owner, go there, buy a dog there, that's not it. If you're lucky you're a little better-dressed, you'll choose the breed. That means you'll be lucky to get to the owner of a dog that's already got a cousin, you think he's got a little control over it, he's gonna tell you a little bit, and you're gonna buy a dog. Then the education begins. If you're gonna put a dog in school, you're gonna have to go to school, and if you're gonna be a conscientious student, you're gonna have something to do with it. But it can happen that you buy a dog, you leave it, you put it on a chain, you drop it in the village, here and there, and then there will be a lot of inconvenience. I say we have two kinds of people: people who raise dogs, and people that dogs raise. And here's the problem. If we want to do some sort of order, it is right that Comrade Saiovic wrote something here, but there are still a lot of things missing. I think we still have a lot to write, a lot to add, from the property itself, where to buy a dog; if we buy a dog today, we know exactly that we only get livestock on the market with paper and we can get a dog anywhere. If we do not get one Rottweiler or pit bull in Slovenia, we can bring him from abroad, we have him at home without any problems, and it is not necessary to report him to a veterinarian because he is already being vaccinated, the first vaccination or the second vaccination is already carried out abroad. And we've got that dog one year at home, and it's okay to take him across the border. Today there are open borders, that book is or is not, if you happen to be taken by a customs officer or a police officer at the border, you'll bring the dog back, otherwise there's no problem. Comrade Saiovic wrote that if a dog bites a man, the owner must report it to the police immediately. Yeah, well, that owner who knows, he does. But I think that the dog that bit the man will sooner report it to the police because the owner will try to cover it up so it won't go public without the neighbor knowing he won't have any trouble. A good dog owner will also protect the dog. The insurance house offers up to 300,000 tolars without a problem, only if the owner is aware of it, matters of force are quickly regulated. And here we have a lot to do in raising owners, on responsible ownership. If we're gonna do this, then I don't think there's gonna be any problems. We have a lot of municipal decrees on how and where to lock dogs, whether a dog is in a block or not, whether it's a dog for a leash or not. But we face daily problems that municipal officials and police do very poorly. And even if we have a marriage, if we don't determine in it who does it, who does it, who does it over the implementation of the law, then it's all in vain. But it is right that something is being done, but I think that this law needs to be completed, so I will not support this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to the Ministry as well! I must say that I am pleased with this debate, because in the end it will be the result of getting some kind of law, some kind of solution to these problems that governs us. What someone has invested is not important; it is important that the final product, which will obviously be a common product, will be good. But I would like to explain to you some of these considerations that led me to writing this law. I've been a field vet for over 20 years, and I have to say, it's also our job to watch these dogs get bit. And I have to say that I went to see a dog three times, four times, five times, and six times, but nothing happened, even more, that dog had no clue, he wasn't on the leash. Our regulation regulating this area, of course, had this measure, that if a matter is not right then it is necessary to send this dog owner to school. However, after this incident, which happened to Tržićan with three or four pit bulls in Ljubljana, this was the first case that I know in fact that something was done specifically that dogs were sent to school. Studying in these three dogs while they're in the cardel won't work, maybe the result will be if they go apart for each other. But there is a matter in this story that bothers me very much. In my office, almost every week, I find it fitting who, after paying the bills and the expenses, stays for food every day between 500 and 1,000 tolars, and every day these three dogs cost Slovenian taxpayers close to 10 thousand, there are about 3 thousand, 3,500 tolars per day costing a day of care in the shelter. And if then, as a dog lover and a cinemalogist, I put on a scale on one side of any of these three dogs and say, like, a child, a man who's just going to stand up to him in one painful situation, and when I weigh it, then I always have to decide on the scale of human life and when it doesn't go differently, with a heavy heart, also what needs to be done. That is why we have also foreseen this remarkable procedure with the Commission in the sense of saying that if you want a problem not to be solved, then a commission should be set up. We have done this for a good reason, and we are proposing to the committee a veterinarian who is obliged to monitor this by duty, a public administration worker from internal affairs, who has this knowledge, then of course we include the profession. Who do we think we are in the profession? We think in particular the Kinological Union of Slovenia, which operates in the public interest, is undoubtedly a unified profession, which unfortunately has not yet been worked out, regulated and has excellent results. Boys and girls, our cinematologists have trained thousands of dogs year after year, and these dogs don't bite, they don't attack. Then there was another important thought: where to begin. I knew that this thought, when I burned some dogs for dangerous dogs, would wake up a certain resistance, but it is significantly less resistance than if I said, as in some European countries, when certain of these bands were simply banned. If I told you, for example, if there was a quartz coming into this room right now, there would be laughter and fun, if there were a 50-pound pit bull or a Rottweiler in this room with us right now, and everyone would be looking at the door. That's the story. It's not a story, like if someone gets attacked by two poodles, there's no consequences. And that's why we started with dogs that can cause serious consequences, they have an anatomical structure just so that when they bite, they break bones, they don't form scratches. And of course, these dogs are particularly dangerous when they operate in a group, in a card. And this last case, like a pit bull in Maribor, or a Rottweiler in Primorsk, if you were in the yard instead of that piggy kid, I'm afraid the story would be tragic. Dogs when they're in an incident when they're in an impact, they sense movement, they sense resistance and they do what they've been raised for decades. Perhaps someone does not know that many of these stories stem from the period of dog fights, when in large wooden barrels these dogs for money, the bets of their owners were cut to life and death, and that the selection went on so that the winners were those who did not have a threshold for pain, those who adapted and those who could endure these efforts. And let's say somewhere in this area has to be started. When I was a kid, I didn't have to be tested for a bike, even less for a moped, not for a tractor. Today, the security situation has shown that we must move forward and therefore begin in this story of dogs that can cause the worst consequences, not because of dogs, but because of owners. The vast majority of the owners of these dogs, which we kind of branded, are the best cinematologists, they already have certain knowledge, they have schools, and therefore I thought it made sense to start with those I respect and appreciate as good dogs and cinemalogists. Of course, there is an open problem of blends, no doubt this cannot be covered so quickly and in any way in the long run. There are still a lot of problems in this story, but I also wanted to say with this law that something has to be done before there are incidents. And this law gives certain conditions, certain options, and we've tackled some problem, not by force, not by ban, but by knowledge. And that's what's taking her on a number of occasions in her life. Above all, we point to knowledge before the incident. That's a few of those thoughts. But maybe there'll be time to say something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr President. Messengers and Members! I will not discuss this matter much on my own. I'd like to highlight two things. The first is that we are surprised by the government's negative opinion. Not so much because the government would argue that it is wrong to regulate this area, but because then formally it even says that this law is not in line with the Law on Offences, which introduced the euro as a monetary unit. I don't know, I'm sorry, but all these things can be solved in the second and third readings. The main question is whether the ruling coalition or, of course, the government wants to come across the opposition's proposal here. I think that in previous discussions of colleagues who are aware of the issues, it has been made clear that the problem of irresponsible dog ownership exists. We simply wanted to ensure by this law that a licence for the treatment of dangerous dogs was introduced and that, if you wanted to ultimately implement appropriate safeguards. We simply wanted this to be achieved if someone had a dangerous dog, so they must act responsibly. And if the word "lord, such a dog" applies in Slovenia, it would be to avoid a case where in the future we may intervene in the archives of today's debate and wonder why the government did not oppose the opposition Members, why, of course, you would rather not upgrade the law, but formally reject it because it was proposed by the opposition. That is all I want to say in this debate. Today there have been a lot of debates on various issues, but here I think it is with a little will that some of the dilemmas in the cleansing of the law could be resolved, but this will on the government side is gone, and apparently the ruling coalition has decided to sink this law too, because it has been proposed by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the Director General of the Veterinary Administration? Mr Saiovic, you have the floor if you wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I must say again that I am satisfied with the debate. The law was put into a broad public debate primarily for this purpose and with the call for constructive comments to be made to the law. I have to say, there were several of them, and there will be more in solving this problem in the future. He was also sent to the supervisory organisation of the Kinological Association of Slovenia. On this point, given that this area is unordered, but according to some data in Slovenia, between 160 and 300 thousand dogs, the number may be a little too large, in any way desired to hear more other opinions, even more interest, and then, of course, this area of cinemalogy and dangerous dogs is also completely and permanently regulated. I'm sure it's one of our tasks before we have an incident. That's what's likely to happen in the first place. Even those who say that the most bites in Slovenia are caused by golden bearers, I attach them, but these dogs are far more important in Slovenia. However, if we have heard from some media that dog bites there are up to 5,000 people a year, that some 100 people end up in hospitals, that the consequences of such bites are also extremely high financial costs for both public health and private people. I was alone in two, three cases as well as a witness and an expert in court, I must say that this is a real financial or other family tragedy. I also strongly support the idea of one of our debaters in front of me, fellow Member Homan, that insurance companies should be wisely included in this story, that then the tragedies will not be like this and that there will be many more opinions in this story. Finally, all of this testifies to the fact that we have animals and dogs, but we prefer safety and human beings, and that we are all ready to do something about it together in this hall. And after today's debate, I'm sure we'll do something together. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you. As the time for discussion has not yet passed, I am opening an application for an additional debate. Who wants to discuss signing up? Mr. Slavinac, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! We've heard quite a few proverbs. One also says that each one chooses a dog in his own image, and on the other hand each one raises a dog in his own image. And that's why we have breeds that are a little more dangerous and we also have dogs that are raised so that they're more dangerous to the environment. And since many dogs think that they are bringing him up and trying to show a part of themselves and part of their nature through him, it is so important that we also anticipate all possible dangerous situations. What does that mean? Surely there are so - called dangerous breeds, breeds that are inclined to do so, and as before, we have been able to hear professionally who have no threshold for pain, but who are reared very meekly. On the other hand, because of various medical conditions, last but not least, some pressure on the brain on the appearance of mild breeds can cause excesses, which owners find difficult to control afterwards. That's why I think it's so much more important that my colleague mag's proposal for a law. Sajovic, who is also an expert in this field, we support and improve him further, also complement with the amendments already announced, since he has at least two important contents. The first is preventative, with the so-called exam, as we have said, to adjust the dog owners and might also point out that the role of the dog should not be the way they show their power, but should be the role of the dog of that friend and, on the other hand, also have the curative inputs of the law when there are incidents, to primarily reduce the consequences, just as much as possible, and more importantly, to prevent any re-accidents that we have already seen happening. For this reason, I propose that when deciding on this law, it should not be important who proposed it, but what he proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the context of the half-hour vote. This concludes this agenda item. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Yes, please, Mr. Klavora. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u192	Mr President, I have a procedural question, perhaps a bit unusual, not about this point, but tonight at eight tonight is the central celebration of the 100th anniversary of Simon Gregorčič's death in Cankar's home. There are people from Posač, there are buses, there are people from Suča, and I believe there are other people who would go, because Simon Gregorčič is not just a dry cleaner, we will probably stay in this hall. I have already pointed to this today at the College meeting and even a few days ago, perhaps Mr President, in this case you can help us, even though I am aware that it is a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u193	I propose that because I cannot put the procedural proposal to the vote now, because we are too few in the Chamber to stop the meeting, we continue it at 19.15 and then we vote on the procedural proposal 20 minutes to eight, when it is time for you to attend the celebration of whoever wants. I'm adjourning or adjourning the meeting, and we'll continue at 7:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u194	Dear Members and Members! Please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Mr. Mag. Clavora obviously has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u195	I have a procedural proposal. I've explained it before. At 8:00 p.m., the central celebration of the 100th anniversary of the death of Simon Gregorčič is at Cankar's home. It will be nice for at least some of these celebrations to be attended by the culturers from Soča. Therefore, I propose, Mr Vice-President, if we can start by voting on the re-decision point on the Law and amendments and additions to the law of organisations and the financing of education and education, because this law has been vetoed, I propose that we start with this point and later or end or continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I will ask Members and Members if anyone opposes this proposal. Do you answer your question or do you object? Mag. The violin has obviously a different procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u197	With all due respect to the Member's proposal that it would be good, of course, for Members and Members to go to the 100th anniversary of Mr Simon Gregorčič's death, but I want to do so. In the National Assembly, we were also aware of these issues when the agenda for this meeting was set. The vote on the ZOFI as one of the votes needed, as we know, by the 46 Members, was clearly stated that it is taking place in accordance with today's agenda and, of course, alone and also in the House of Representatives, we will oppose such a proposal. Members and Members will decide how to do so in the vote itself. It is our view, however, that this would be a very large intervention in a well-established practice of setting a timetable for the National Assembly and, of course, to the extent that the ruling coalition manages to vote, then believe that we will be able to meet similar proposals at each meeting of the National Assembly when this or that Member Group cannot be fully present. By the way, I would like to go to this celebration myself, but of course I do not remember that an invitation would come into my mailbox, nor do I remember that it would also be given to other Members of our Group, with rare exceptions that may be officials or heads of individual committees. I will therefore oppose this procedural proposal myself, and I believe that my fellow Members from the parliamentary group also, because of this, of course, it is essential to interfere with the content of today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I have nothing left but to consider Article 65, paragraph 1, and to make a proposal to my colleague mags. The piano for the vote. So his proposal is to break the 25th item of the agenda and then, when we vote, allow those coastal MPs who want to attend the celebration at Cankarjev's home. Let me say that the decision will not be adopted if it is opposed to 1/3 or more Members. We're voting. Thank you very much. I find that 74 Members and Members are present. 50 votes against 19, which means that Mr Mag's procedural proposal is mag. Clavores accepted. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] . This is why we continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, namely the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. I'd like you to calm down, and I'd like you to allow me to finish my sentence, Mr. Squeakle. EPA-1019 IV We're moving on to a decision on that law, and I'm giving it a mag. Squeezing a word. Please, if you'll allow me, there will be a vote as soon as possible. Thank you so much for your tolerance. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia for the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more, and in accordance with practice and rules of procedure, I invite all those who wish to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members to apply. I am opening an application for explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. Thank you very much. The first one has the word "magic." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Group of the Social Democrats will take into account the proposal tabled by the Council of State with its veto for the re-voting and will not support the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education when re-voting. The reasons for this are what they were when we tried to convince the proposers, in the legislative process, to withdraw the bill, but to repeat it briefly. First time. A more extensive intervention is being announced in the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, and we do not see any need for Social Democrats to rush through changes that do not have the support of all partners in education and education. Another time. In fact, only two issues are concerned with the proposed changes. In fact, only a change in the composition of the school council is important, and it can also have a greater impact on the appointment of the principal. Third time. When we asked the applicants why they wanted to implement a change in the composition of the school's world, we did not get any argument based on analytical evidence that the current regime, the current representation in the worlds is not adequate and does not allow for sufficient decision-making in the holy schools. Fourth time. We do not believe that it is a matter of balanced representation and substitution of self-management by co-management. We believe that co-management has already been present, but that there is a marked lack of confidence in employees in public schools and kindergartens when the number of employees from 5 decreases to only 3 representatives. In view of what things the whole world of school or kindergarten is deciding on, we believe that the same number or composition of the world as it has been so far should be ensured, and we particularly regret that the representation of the diatrician structure will also fall out of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a little quiet so we can get back to work. The party doesn't start until 8:00. Mag. Squeakle, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Since I speak on behalf of the Group of Members, I will first explain my vote, and then I predict that we will request, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, an appropriate recess in order to consult. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, ladies Members and Members of Parliament, a different order of this meeting has been set. You voted differently, allow us to apply the provisions of business. Let me explain. I'm just predicting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u202	Please, first of all, an explanation, that will be another procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u203	I'm just predicting you wouldn't miss me then. Look, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, we estimate that it is appropriate for the State Council to form a veto. We believe that this is a major change of law, and it is right that we meet the veto of the State Council in the National Assembly. And as has already been said in a broad debate today, we will, of course, support the veto of the State Council. I think it has been said a lot about how this law will reduce the role of school and kindergarten workers, how students will be expelled from the world. All this discussion shows that, even in the field of education, the ruling coalition wants to do more than ever before to bend the backs of those who are supposed to have an important impact on what is of interest to all of us, which is that our children are either primary schoolchildren or students educated in environments where political influence is minimal. For this reason, we will oppose this law in the Liberal Democratic Club and we will support the veto of the State Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I conclude with my explanation of vote, and I give the word mags. Procedural training.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u205	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, I ask you to suspend the work of the National Assembly for 45 minutes for consultation in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Even Mr Tanko has a procedural proposal. Please calm down, so we can hear another procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, only the head of the delegation and not the deputy and not anyone else may request an interruption. This is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u208	So the practice is if you allow me to explain that such a procedural proposal can always be given by the head of the parliamentary group, his deputy or an authorised Member, and, as I know, he is a mag. Vice-Chairman of the Parliamentary Group. So that from this point of view the Deputy may without authorization. [[...]] Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for 45 minutes and continuing at 20.15 a.m. on the vote of the 25th item. I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u209	We continue with the cut-off of the 25th point and give the floor to the motioner of the interruption, mag. Gypsies. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u210	In today's debate, we have said, and also after a consultation at the parliamentary club, that we will not support the decision to adopt this law. We therefore reiterate that the law, as it is now designed, is not suitable for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have only procedural proposals, but there is no more explanation. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, according to the practice of Explanation no longer, I am giving only possible procedural proposals. [[...]] That's the way it is. The first has a procedural proposal, Mr Testen. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Well, I would like to take this opportunity only to thank Mr Cwikel and the entire LDS, who is very committed to culture and has prevented us from participating in the celebration at the 100th anniversary of Simon Gregorčič's death.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u213	Mr. Testen, this was not a procedural proposal. Mr Jerovšek, but, please, a proposal, not like Mr Testen, this was not a proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u214	I'll make a concrete suggestion. In fact, I myself wanted to attend the celebration in honor of Simon Gregorčič [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u215	I'm asking you to listen!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u216	and an acquaintance of his literature. [[...]] And in fact, I'm going to explain my procedural proposal to the Kitty of the Cinderella Night. In fact, Simon Gregorčič says, "You are the swarm that spends night and day to trap your brother, you are caught in the death of the snare, you are the dust and the ashes." And, Mr Vice-President, I propose that, because of this conscious nagging, obstructing Members from attending the celebration of such an important Slovenian poet, you give a reminder to your colleague, Cwickle. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u217	Please! Mr Jerovšek, you know that I cannot do this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because a procedural proposal has been made entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. I note that there are 77 Members present, 47 votes in favour, 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. And I am going back to the beginning of the vote on the 22nd item of the agenda - this is through the consideration of the 11th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2005. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the proposal for recommendations to the first chapter. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the first chapter. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] Which means the amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to the first chapter. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] Which means the amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to the second chapter. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 9. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 9th.]] Which means the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Social Democrats Group to chapter five. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] Which means the amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Social Democrats Group to chapter five. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] Which means the amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to chapter 11. I see your hands up. First, on behalf of the groups of Members, to apply for an explanation. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u218	My word is surprising that with such ease today you reject amendments or recommendations that currently consume Slovenian society the most. I am talking about the recommendation that the Government set up a strategy for Roma inclusion in society that you rejected, I am talking about a recommendation that it regulates the situation of deleted persons, regulates the situation of deleted persons - the situation of deleted persons is also currently governed by a bus that leads somewhere - and I am also talking about this recommendation to a chapter that speaks of the Government preparing a strategy or law or a national programme to prevent domestic violence. Because I know that this recommendation will not receive your support either, to remind you that your government has warned you that this recommendation is preparing that it has no hard work in doing so because it ascribes a text that was a little late or too late for us, and at the same time that you have not brought nothing in vain to the day before or even something on your clothes when you signed, confirmed and acknowledged that the issue of domestic and child violence is a problem of society. That is why, at least in this amendment or in this recommendation, do not use the inertia that is so owning you, but I will say, the thought that, at least at this point in the matter of the Ombudsman's report, seems to be lacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 votes against 44, which means that the amendment was not adopted. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And the last amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 11. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for recommendations to the 11th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2005 as a whole. We're voting. I see your hands up, which means you're applying on behalf of the sent-off groups. Please. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. We've got two reports. She will be the first to present the position of the Social Democrats of the Magi. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We will support the proposal for recommendations, which, however, we have been able to extend through another recommendation, which, at the Commission's first meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities in a slightly different form, has not received support, but speaks of the need for a strategy for Roma inclusion in society. Unfortunately, we have not accepted or the National Assembly has not adopted any other recommendations which, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, would express the awareness of the National Assembly that these are matters which the National Assembly attaches to them, that the National Assembly realizes that these are not yet solved problems, that society perceives them as violations of human rights and that despite the Ombudsman's report or opinion mentioning that the Government has shown a great deal of understanding in the response report, but still remains unresolved and takes time for these violations to be resolved. Nor do we believe that more recommendations are made to weaken the strength of individual recommendations. The fact is that from last year's 31st time this number has indeed decreased to 28, but more importantly, what these recommendations mean as an obligation to the executive branch of power, and not least for the judiciary. In short, the Social Democrats' Group will make recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 3. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against three.]] It means that the recommendations have been adopted. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - first consideration of the bill on responsible ownership of dogs and the treatment of dangerous dogs - EPA 1026-IV. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a conclusion: "The proposal of the Law on Responsible Possession of Dogs and the Treatment of Dangerous Dogs in First Treatment is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] This means that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and therefore the legislative procedure on the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ - EPA 1020-IV. On Thursday, 23 November 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law and cannot be tabled in the third reading, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the parental working body of the adopted amendment, the law would not be inconsistent. I see a few raised arms and I am opening a statement to explain the vote on behalf of the sent-off groups. Please. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the law. The law eliminates injustices against Slovenian pensioners who have been employed in neighbouring republics. We know that the law applies in particular to pensioners who were employed in neighbouring Croatia. By means of this law, we will provide an annual allowance and an allowance to help and serve these people. Today, by means of an adopted law, we provide this to more than a thousand pensioners. I would like to mention this, given that I myself have worked very hard to solve this problem, that in 1994 and 1995 there were some over 5,000 of these pensioners. Unfortunately, today we are also saving those who live or, I will say, I am happy to say that we will at least solve this problem, and today we can also ask ourselves what the Ombudsman has done for these people. The former government can pour ashes because it didn't arrange for this to be resolved 10 years ago, 8 years ago, to be granted this right, I firmly believe that it was their right to all these people. I am pleased, I hope that the law will be passed today and I will be happy to press the "yes" button. But I must stress once again, but I would be very happy if this injustice were corrected by all people, unfortunately, it cannot be done today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We have heard the explanation on behalf of New Slovenia. Now, Mr Potræ will present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u224	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We are pleased that there have been at least minimal corrections that will certainly complement workers who have spent an important part of their working life in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. However, we do not believe that this means a correction of the injustices, but perhaps a minimum correction of the injustices, and we still hope that the Government will follow the decision taken by its mother's working body, which requires the preparation of a special law that will level the situation and conditions for the acquisition of the pension of all those who have also worked in the republics of the former Yugoslavia and who are now our citizens and are staying with us. And we regret that our proposal has not been adopted so that the part of the rights provided for by the law can be enforced even this year, which is a completely unreasonable decision, because it would mean nothing materially. But it seems that there was too much and the government did not accept it. Nevertheless, correction is beneficial, for even if it gives little, it gives people who need it and who should have that right long ago. I hope that the government will see whether there are other groups that are also disadvantaged in the pension system - I mentioned them and would not mention them today - and that there will be indeed criteria of equal rights, not ideological criteria for those who will prevail in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I am now opening applications for explanations of vote in my own name. Please. Mr. Sok, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say what my fellow Member, on behalf of the Group of Members, has somehow forgotten to say. I just want to remind you that I'm happy to support this marriage. That this law removes some injustice that has always been evident and is the former government, and even so far there has been no opportunity to correct it. We finally got this law into Parliament and will adopt it today. And, of course, before the Slovenian public, I would like to say that this is the work of the ministry and the minister, who, because he is clearly not able to conduct social dialogue, is being suspended at this point. In Novi Slovenija it seems appropriate to repeat this and to tell the Slovenian public also on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much. And we vote. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present and they have all voted in favour, which means that the bill has been adopted. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving on to the 12th item of the agenda, this is to the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications EPA 1083-VII. Since the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that after the third reading of the draft law due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the Government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment to the 114th and 116th articles you received on the bench. He wants to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendments? No, no, no. Do Members and Members want the word? Not at all. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 114. We're voting. Thank you. There are 67 Members and Members present. 58 votes against 1, which means the amendment has been adopted. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] And we are also deciding in the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 116. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 59 votes against no one, which means that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] And now we are still voting in the draft law as a whole. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 61 votes against 2, which means the law has been passed. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] We are moving on to the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a road transport law EPA 1042-VII. On Thursday, 23 November this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, but I am informed that the proposal for the amendments adopted is inconsistent and I am asking the representative of the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service for an additional comment. Please, Secretary of State Dr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of the amendment adopted to Article 5 of the proposed Road Transport Act at the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23.11.2006 and the amendment adopted to Article 37 of the Proposal for a Law on Road Transport at the 18th meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport, on 8.11.2006, the individual provisions of the proposed Road Transport Act are mutually inconsistent. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and on the basis of mutual non-compliance with the amendments adopted, the Government has prepared the harmonisation amendments to Articles 4, 8, 10, 11, 12, 37, 38, 39, 41, 87, 136 and 137 of the amended Law on Road Transport. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the harmonisation amendments and the proposed law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-28-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Dr. Verlich, for further clarification. So, given that the Government will prepare these harmonisation amendments, we will decide on them tomorrow in the framework of the vote, as well as [[They just don't have MPs on the table.]] As well as the whole marriage. That is why I interrupt this point, as we say, in the context of the vote tomorrow. I also interrupt the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9:00, so tomorrow not at 10:00, but at 9:00. I wish everyone a good night and good night.
