ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. I begin the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Roberto Battelli and Victory Jelinčič noble. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, Minister for Health Mag. Andrej Bručan and other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 7 December 2006. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. We were inconclusive. I ask that you pay attention to the vote, because I estimate that there are enough Members and Members in the National Assembly. We are moving on to another vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day - it's for a defensive interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the minister for the health of the Magi. Andrey's pregnant. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 23 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. Mr Ljubo Germič, mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Dr Pavel Gantar, Mr Aleš Gulič and Mr Jožef Školč and Dr Slavko Gaber. I give the floor to the representative of the interpellation candidates, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, for an explanation of the interpretation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! All those who follow us are respected. Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health, Mag. Andrej Bručan, we have invested in the LDS Club in order to protect the interests of Slovenian patients and hospitals, and because of the multibillion-dollar damage caused by its illegal and irrational operation and conduct. The Minister shall exercise wild and unplanned privatisation, causing the breakdown of the health system, by allowing and participating in the uncontrolled and illegal award of concessions in the field of primary, secondary and tertiary health care. All this is happening without an appropriate strategy, without analysis and supervision and without an adequate health network and the legal basis for such decisions. We have tabled interpellation because within two years the Minister has not prepared a national plan and a health care strategy for the period 2005/2012, even though we are already at the end of 2006, and because he has not prepared and harmonised a number of necessary legal provisions, the non-admission of which is of great harm to patients. It is clear to the Minister that it does not implement insurance laws and because it does not act effectively enough to prevent illegal and covert wild health insurance, which is most clearly represented by the operation of Mutual and First Health Assistance. The Minister manipulates and deceives with data on the reduction of waiting periods, as the situation in practice is quite different from that of the public. He is responsible because he has not prepared a strategy to eliminate waiting periods and has not introduced a national waiting list that will only show the reality and lead to justice for patients. The Minister is also directly responsible for the billions of damage caused by the high prices of medicines, as the prices of medicines do not adapt sufficiently to market conditions, which allow and enable the law and regulation. Nor does the Minister wish to establish clear controls in the field of drug testing and documentation. The Minister allows and supports clienteleism in the procurement of medical equipment, the provision of services such as, for example, handing over helicopters to foreign passengers days ago [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Under the cover of the Automotive Association of Slovenia and given the substantial higher price and damage for our pilots within the police and military helicopter unit. [[..]] The Minister has not yet regulated the situation and ineffective control in the field of cytopathology. In the area of wild privatisation, Minister Bručan is responsible for the decommissioning of basic public health services, represented by health centres, and for a completely unprofessional, outdated and harmful view of their position, role and function. He is responsible for wild privatisation, as years go on without an open vision, strategy, without analysis of advantages and weaknesses, without financial assessments, without comparisons and analyses, also with foreign experiences, without prior or at least opposite regulation of emerging situations and in complete absence of public dialogue. The public statements promote and highlight and favour the exclusive advantages of privacy, while ignoring all the pitfalls of wild privatisation and transition in the field of health. In view of the planned and accelerated award of concessions, it is clear that over 270 new concessions have been awarded by the predecessor in the course of his two years of his term of office and 148 in the four years. In Slovenia, around 900 concessions were gradually awarded to him, which meant slightly more than 25% of all doctors and placed us among countries with a mixed system, including Scandinavian countries. All of this takes place in the absence of an outdated public health service network, which, in the absence of adequate supervision and basic standards at basic health level, causes a breakdown of the system and thus directly endangers human health, removes the principle of solidarity and reduces the effectiveness of healthcare. The Minister is responsible for depriving and endangering the property and property of municipalities in the field of basic health care as he advocates, plans and uncontrolledly allows the transition of the private and public health system to a pure private public system in the field of basic health care. This sensitive area is tackled with revolutionary and unimaginable actions, without cooperation and agreement with the social partners and the general public, and not just, but in fact, overnight, as was the case a few weeks ago. Why do we say it's a wild privatisation? In the LDS, we wish to stress that we do not oppose the privatisation and award of concessions and the gradual and deliberate upgrading of the health system, but not in the way Minister Bručan does. At the time of his term of office, he announced extensive privatisation in the delivery of health services, but he has never done anything concrete for a clear and unambiguous legal regime in this area. The concession law has been for the past year, and it is still not in the procedure. The problem is not only private or public, but in order and clear distinction between private and public, which he did not take care of as Minister. In some articles, such as in the June 2005 issue of John’s magazine, the minister was thrilled to point out that in basic health care it should go as far as possible, even to 100%. He also spoke poorly and underestimatingly about health homes as about, I quote, "survival institutions", which are, I quote again, "again, contrary to new concepts". But the truth is the opposite. Doctors individuals have long been unresponsive to the demands of modern medical professions and are forced to seek new forms of cooperation. Even in many Western European countries where they do not know health homes, they have been looking for the same forms of cooperation and group practices as the concept of our healthcare home has in recent years. Mr Minister, don't be afraid, the health care home is not a socialist or communist product that we would be obliged to destroy in our revolutionary zeal, since we have had the first healthcare home in Slovenia since 1926. It is clear to you that your statements have caused unrest among health workers and have had a significant impact on their expectations and behaviours, as they have become afraid for their future. As you say in Del, November 2005 should not be forced to do so. But also the words, especially yours, Mr. Minister, are of course of great importance and influence, as you have clearly and unequivocally announced that you want to achieve the greatest possible extent possible by the end of the term of office, and at least 50% by the end of the term, the transition of doctors between concessionaires. However, health care homes should slowly die and perform only preventive and emergency functions and other financially uninteresting programmes that concessionaires would be able to unwind. In this area, the new president of the strategic council, Dr. Marjan Senjur, pointed out: "The health situation is extremely critical. For the British Government, the health system is a key, radical reform theme. We have the Ministry of Health. But it doesn't look like it's the government's theme. Nor is it clear what is being done to ensure that the health system does not deteriorate", the end of the quote. In the field of secondary and even tertiary health care, Minister Bručan grants without reservation concessions and encourages the departure of doctors from hospitals between individuals. In 2005, Minister Bručan awarded concessions to 46 new private operators at the secondary level and 50 new ones a week ago. So it's a total of 96. Prior to that, from 1992 to 2004, a total of 152 concessions were granted. Minister Bručan says in his reply that he has been granting concessions in accordance with the legislation, as has been the case since 1992. In doing so, it is consciously forgetting that Slovenia has entered the European Union in the meantime and should have adapted our legislation to the European one for which it has already had two years. However, it is clear that he does not wish to regulate this area or that he wants to grant as many concessions as possible in a controversial way. The concession law, which is supposed to regulate this, is still merely forecasting. The August draft has miraculously disappeared and the concessions are successfully awarded, without public invitations, in nighttime action, as they were a few weeks ago. The dispute over the award of concessions without invitations to tender is also raised by lawyers before the Court of Justice of the European Community, including our representative, Dr Verica Trstenjak, and a number of experts. Alexi Možina, who was a doctorate in the field of concessions, says that "the European Court will follow the proposal of its lawyer, not only in the case of the provision of postal services, but also in the case of emergency health services in Ireland. And this will mean that all the concessions awarded to us after joining the European Union are illegal because there was no invitation to tender for them." End of quote. Whether the call for programmes implemented by the Health Insurance Office will be sufficient in this case is very questionable. However, it is extremely irresponsible of you, Mr Minister, to step on such slippery terrain and not act urgently and quickly. Perhaps you are relying on the fact that the concessions granted will remain in force due to the great damage caused by their destruction. Whatever the case, it is high public funding concessions that an individual receives, and nothing washes you from the responsibility not to do so in a public and transparent manner. The excuses for past behaviour do not dispel you, as the legal order in Slovenia is developing and upgrading, which should be given to you. Fides' President Konrad Kuštrin also says that he advocates that a new law allow for transparent award of concessions under which everyone will participate under the same conditions. It is clear, therefore, that doctors themselves warn that the present award of concessions is not transparent and not equal for all. Until when, Mr. Secretary? Maybe by the time there's no more sharing? The granting of concessions is not accompanied by proper regulation and supervision, with your main argument being that you grant concessions in particular where the needs are not covered by the existing public health service and network. This is not true, because such concessions are granted in the majority of municipalities, in the minority and even in the LDS, we do not oppose them. But the vast majority of concessions are awarded where public institutions operate and to doctors who switch from them to concessions. These are also extensive examples described in the interpretation of the cases of Slovenska Bistrica and the New Town. On the occasion of your visit, you invited the mayor to grant the concessions to doctors from the healthcare home, however, as it was not supposed to have a legal basis for non-submission. Very unusual pressure, especially since the Supreme Court has unequivocally ruled that the municipality does not have to grant concessions if the needs are covered in the public health service. But in Slovenska Bistrica you were obeyed because they granted 18 new concessions and then there were only 6 doctors left in the healthcare home from the former 34 doctors, of which 2 were general doctors. Thus, since 14 August, only 1 private ambulance has been working since this year, and patients have been able to read at the door of their offices to find help in a healthcare home. More than half the concessionaires in Slovenska Bistrica are not on duty, and for all of this they should be your fault as director of the healthcare home and the mayor, if you do not know how to coordinate the work. Your guilt is now lost, although the Act on concessions is nowhere, so there are also no rules of the game and no powers to regulate relations with concessionaires. In doing so, it is inconceivable that you are doing so without an approved health network. This is as if a farmer would start selling quite a little: forests, few pastures, the best fields, and not even know what he's going to live on and deal with later. When, of course, he finally makes a decision, he will be without everything or we can call a beggar. At the same time, Mr Minister, I would like to remind you that you have already publicly claimed in November 2005 that you have prepared material for the establishment of a basic health network which, according to your words, must be the basis for the award of concessions, I stress, November 2005. The network hasn't been adopted yet. But to Concessions you give your consent in a multitude of ways and in a sense. It is also true that supervision in public institutions is built on a large system of internal and external control. Let me point out that we do not want to report through interpellation that the doctor-concessionaires are weak. No, the opposite. In particular, the most ambitious and good doctors who had seen new possibilities were leaving for privacy. The vast majority of them also cooperate satisfactorily with public institutions. This is not an interpretation against doctors, as a large majority of the work is excellent, committed and in favour of patients. They do their job and are worthy of all respect. Many are concessionaires who are doing their job properly, but they have told us that with such work, they barely come through with money. Some even return concessions or think about it. The problem is that a lot of people who are given an opportunity and have no rules and no control, and have low moral and ethical standards, take the opportunity, as the saying goes, "The opportunity to make a thief." That is why your responsibility is so much greater because you have not taken care of systemic solutions, regulation and, above all, control. Inadequate and weak and numerically extremely weak is in particular professional supervision. Private operators receive only the supervision of their residential organisation of the Medical Chamber, which, on the other hand, is the main advocate of privatisation. What are the specifics on professional supervision? In Slovenia we have over 3,700 doctors, of which more than 1000 concessionaires, now 1200. Last year, however, the Medical Chamber carried out a total of 47 controls, of which 16 for concessionaires, which is only 1.6% of all concessionaires or otherwise, the concessionaire can expect to have professional supervision once every 64 years. Therefore, the key question remains for you, Mr Minister: How will you ensure appropriate professional supervision? This is of particular interest to patients. The experience of other countries shows that private operators in the public health network need to have more regulation and more control, as their motive, that is profit, often leads to an optimal solution for users. In addition to Martin Toth's warning, the great authority in the field of medical knowledge, which he stated in the discussion, I quote: "Persons collect cheaper and easier routes or things, they only collect cream. A little bit of a joke, that kind of doctor would only want to look at young healthy girls." He cites cases where some private doctors in Ljubljana took two or three months off leave this year and put a message on the door that emergency patients should report to the healthcare home. It is also true that waiting periods in dentistry, where almost 50% of concessionaires' participation has already been achieved, have increased significantly in recent years. So we have examples when they publish three, four, five-year waiting periods. This is also the case in the congregation where I live, and unfortunately, we have granted concessions to all dentists in the healthcare home. And after a year and a half, I have to find out that the situation is a little bit worse, so I'm also taking responsibility as mayor. But things have disappointed me. People are forced into self - paying, which in prosthetics amounts to 500, 600,000 tolars, a million even, because at least those who have money can't walk around disorderly for years and wait in line. Unfortunately, on the road we can see more people with irregular and neglected teeth from day to day, which was rare years ago. Mr Toth also points out that concessionaires do not like to send patients to laboratory investigations because they have to pay them out of their means. They prefer to prescribe the most expensive antibiotic paid by the insurance company, but in part the patient himself. The expertise of this decision will be assessed by doctors, but I know that overuse of antibiotics is severely harmful to any further disease. Cases are known from laboratories where fewer investigations commissioned by concessionaires are observed, and significantly more from those designated by doctors from the public health care home. Prof. Dr. Arnež, who certainly knows things well, replied to the question of what happens to concessionaires, quote: "Selecting patients, taking less difficult, with the anticipated possibility of complications", the end of the quote. In doing so, I would also like to point out that the money left to the concessionaire remains and goes in his pocket, while the money left behind in an unused programme in a public institution, a healthcare home or a hospital must be spent in accordance with the law on the purchase of equipment and investment. The analysis of taxes and levies paid by doctors in the public sector compared to concessionaires shows that due to the transparency of their revenues, the State receives as much as 1.2 million less resources or more from the public doctor. This difference, created by a private person by showing too little wages, remains to him as a profit. It is also a fact, as I said earlier, that concessionaires are saving money for their own good also by sending less to diagnostic examinations, being treated at home and at home and at home and by shifting costs to secondary and tertiary levels, as the number of concessionaires has increased significantly. To give an example, the doctor-concessionary on Ptuj rejected a cancer patient and referred her to a doctor, of course not very explicitly, but between the lines, and sent her to a public health care doctor because of a number of difficult tests and diagnostics being a high cost. Patients have experienced this on their skin and have recently alerted us to many cases of savings when doctors - concessionaries have withdrawn their tests, such as blood, and demanded that they pay them themselves if they do not need them in their work. We've received reports of such cases from Prekmur. Later, however, it was shown that the patient had a marked increase in cholesterol. However, the analysis in this regard is expected to be carried out at the Ministry due to a number of warnings. And your associate, Dr. Janez Remškar, found out the same way we did. I quote: "The analysis of hospital controls has shown that there are virtually no substantive controls. Internal controls in all health establishments and concessionaires are inadequate. The supervision of the Medical Chamber and the Health Insurance Office is insufficient and often too gentlemanly." End of quote. Such an important and sensitive issue as the privatisation of the healthcare system, which touches every citizen, Minister Bručan is engaged in unbiased individual measures rather than unfolding his vision here, in the National Assembly and before the general Slovenian public. He is a minister and must be the guardian of the public system and therefore the most responsible. It is unacceptable and ridiculous, however, that responsibilities are avoided and hidden by the answer that concessions grant municipalities, that it is a matter of mayors or that it gives them only consent after receiving the opinion of the Health Insurance Institute. Consents or decisions at the secondary level shall be issued by him alone and, in the event that the conditions are not met or that contracts between municipalities and concessionaires are inadequate and do not protect public interest, should be retained. But they don't. An additional major weakness is that concession contracts are legally flawed and do not ensure that future doctors remain in the public network when sharing work and not only when financing. Directors of smiling health homes do not have sufficient authority to coordinate the work of public and private doctors. This is done entirely and only on the basis of informal arrangements, and also in the event that joint activities are truly inevitable. Even when private individuals continue to work in a health care facility, contact is interrupted and joint meetings, joint programming and error analysis are abandoned. Concessionists do not take a healthcare home that is abandoned, the remains of teams, nurses, lab technicians, technicians, so no one deals with the future of all these other superfluous employees in a health care facility that were tied to a doctor. Medical homes, too, remain at the back of the problem of covering uncovered fixed costs, which remain almost the same after the concessionaires leave, and because of the cuts in the programmes carried out by the concessionaire, they lose millions of amounts. So I hope today to say with certainty that the loss in such health care homes and hospitals, especially in the Clinical Center, will be higher and higher each year. All of this remains without solutions and only on the shoulders of health care providers, hospitals, and the minister leaves them to himself and he has no interest in it. More. In response to the interpolation, they are accused of incompetence, although they have been repeatedly warned at the consultations that they do not have sufficient powers and legal grounds for effective coordination. Preventive activity in health care homes is drying up and has even died in some places, and this is also true for home treatment and for prescribing patronage. Let me give the most drastic example in the field of awarding concessions from the latest period. It's an express nightly award of concessions to 50 new doctors specialists a few weeks ago. As in the mockery of our proposal and the appeal to wait and grant concessions to be temporarily frozen for analysis, the Minister has accepted the legal basis for the concession, and the concessions have been rekindled, even this time without the invitation to tender. Concessionaires received and were forced to sign a concession decision and contract on the same day, without taking into account the deadline for complaints, take or leave in style. The role of the Ministry has been in the field since spring, and the hospitals have been making their views appear to be in great distemper and under pressure, some of them in recent seconds. In doing so, the Minister has also knowingly violated the opinions of hospitals and professions and has distributed more programmes, as agreed by public institutions and hospitals, without clear definitions of where concessionaires will operate. Only in these days do they seek a place of peace for their work. Thus, concessions in the field of ophthalmology, i.e. eye diseases, also granted to companies owned and operated by optics, which the profession strongly opposed and warned them. According to our sources, due to the departure of three pulmologists from the Ljubljana School of Health, where he was unequivocally opposed in his letter to grant these concessions, the Ljubljana Health House will lose 107 million revenue and at least 33 million fixed costs will remain uncovered, which will burden other activities. Infringement of the law is also the fact that the concessions have also been awarded to certain companies and private parties which have not yet been authorised to operate at the time of the award of the concession. They only got it later. Others again received a concession for an activity for which they were not asked at all. For days, the minister hid the lucky ones who got the concessions. Even today, we do not know what extent of the funds have been allocated. For example, the psychiatric hospital clearly defined that the concessions granted should not reduce their programme and financial resources, but that is what happened. They lost over 90 million programs. Since there is no regulated and defined public health network, there are ridiculous situations. Let me re-examine the case in psychiatry. In the Ljubljana region, 18 psychiatric concessions have been awarded so far, five in the last package. But there are regions where there is a huge shortage of psychiatrists and they are practically without staff. And so it continues to remain in the Koroška, premurski, novogorski, novemški region. Only one of the concessions, this is the one that the brother of the Secretary of State Dr. Marusic received, was awarded for the area of Primorska. It is also interesting that waiting periods have increased dramatically in some areas after concessions have been granted in the past and have not decreased, indicating that the argument of greater accessibility is falling smoothly. The waiting period is 14 days for an outpatient examination at the psychiatric clinic and two to three months for psychiatric concessionaries. The speed and panic that ruled led to the granting of concessions also to a number of errors. For example, at the Clinical Center, where they forgot to list those who give them their consent, they could list Dr. Mountainski, who has no one to complain to, but wait ahead. It is also interesting that many specialists have received concessions for outpatient checks, but not for operations. Dr. Arnez wanted to perform a full-scale psychiatric surgery. All he got was an outpatient activity. Therefore, patients who will need surgery will have to go to Ljubljana. And there will be a need for a re-examination. Thus, the waiting species will be extended. Such a concession also entails duplication of services in the burden of compulsory insurance. And go ahead. Will the operations now be carried out in the Clinical Center by doctors of beginners and specialists, for example, who remained mostly in the plastic surgery department, since from now four doctors of specialists are half private? The department will be able to maintain the name of the clinical department at all, since there are only six specialists and 10 secondaries and specialists left. There are six specialists and 10 second-hand specialists left, I'm sorry. We also got a call from a patient yesterday. I have a name and a last name that gave us her bitter experience. In plastic surgery, she had a deadline for surgery with Dr. Aleš Leskovšku, one of these new concessionaires, on December 8th. When she arrived after three months of waiting period, ready for surgery at the Clinical Center, she was informed that unfortunately the operation was failing because the doctor became a concessionary on 1.12. She didn't get a new date. What do you want me to do now, Mr. Secretary? While the Minister has found time and has granted new concessions to the Horik, you are obviously running out of time, at the same time, to regulate cases concerning the introduction of HPV anti-cancer vaccine on your cervix. According to our data, everything is ready for immediate start, unfortunately, for once a very expensive self-sustainment. The vaccine is here, the teams trained and on your application for confirmation and listing as of 22 November. Unfortunately, you have not found time for this work, although the annual illness with 200 hospitals and 60 deaths in Slovenia is among the highest in Europe and all professions unitedly supports the previous vaccinations. For example, ministers in Germany, France, Austria, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Estonia have found time for signatures, where they have already been vaccinated. What will happen and how it will only be stuck in the inclusion of the vaccine in mandatory vaccination, which, of course, we all hope will happen as soon as possible, we can only think, because then it will not only be your good will and signature, but we expect you to provide additional funding. The departure of doctors from hospitals, in particular top experts, i.e. the award of concessions at the so-called tertiary level threatens the professional development of all institutions and the teaching and research work in them, as their contribution to a narrow professional summit held by a small country such as Slovenia cannot be replaced overnight. Dr. Konrad Kuštrin, President of the FIDEZ Trade Union, President of the Doctors' Union, agrees in this discussion, saying, "High-level experts cannot go private." The public is concerned about the further development of scientific and research work, in particular our only university centre, this is the Clinical Center, if we learn that just overnight such experts and professors at the Medical Faculty, such as Dr. Zoran Arnez, Dr. Marko Mavlina, Dr. Vladimir Jevtič, Dr. David Doège, etc. In the EU, there is a strict border, namely, for those who work in a public institution, not to work in private. However, when financing spending, public and private resources must not be spilled and mixed. There is hardly any specialist with us right now, hardly any specialist who wouldn't be working at least one private office this afternoon in addition to working in a public office. The right field for the rise of corruption, which has also been publicly pointed out by experts who understand corruption and whom you, Mr Minister, do not intend to prevent in any way. It's not health policy, it's politics. We justifiably argue that privatisation without strategy, without discussion with users and their consent, without regulation and supervision, with total carelessness to the growing problems in public institutions, with carelessness to public finances and free movement of public property into private hands, means, in the right sense, chaotic and wild privatisation. The Minister does not act as the guardian of public interest, but as the holder of the partial interests of individual operators. Unfortunately, the Minister is becoming more and more the Minister for Doctors and not Health. Or as it was written a few days ago in the Saturday Annex, I quote, "the minister's commitment to solving all the accumulated health problems by privatizing his work already to fanaticism". In particular, the functioning of the Ministry in relation to the non-implementation of insurance laws and the admission of illegal forms of insurance are at stake. Minister Bručan is responsible for not taking action and for allowing for the savage privatisation of the Mutual. In doing so, it is obvious that it leaves the Mutual Wild Privatization. The event we are following is clearly due to the ignorance, duality and passivity of the authorities or the minister, as well as of other government bodies in their composition, in particular the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which does not carry out its tasks. In the case of the Mutual, privatisation is taking place in front of everyone, which will rob almost a million citizens and of which no one else doubts that it is illegal and illegal. However, Minister Bručan, together with the Government and the leadership of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, argues that the authorities do not have sufficient leverage to prevent this. The opposition is not interested in the events of the agency, their staffing and professional problems, as their work is also in direct connection with the Government and Minister Bručan. Therefore, the excuse that you are not directly responsible for non-implementation of insurance laws as a minister is not accepted, since as a member of the Government you are also directly responsible for the effectiveness of operations in areas other than those directly under your jurisdiction, but are fully linked to the health system. Minister Bručan does not understand that supplementary health insurance is in the special public interest, although the text itself has been implemented in the Health Care Act. In doing so, it is clear that supplementary health insurance is intended to supplement the services provided by compulsory health insurance and to which all insured persons are entitled. It is clear that Minister Bručan is not aware of his responsibility and duty to act in relation to developments in the Mutual, which he has since the entry into force of the amendment of the Health Insurance Act which he has and which defines the area of supplementary health insurance as the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia. He agrees to disregard the law he himself has proposed. Apparently, he did not believe in this law at the time, or he did not understand it, and he doesn't care what happens to almost a million insurance companies at the Mutual. A particularly drastic example is the operation of the First Medical Assistant. In addition, forms of privatisation, which have the nature of introducing specific forms of voluntary insurance, are also emerging with all the imprudentity of privatisation carried out in the field of insurance. In addition to all official institutions of the system and in contravention of applicable legislation. This is the case with the First Health Assistance, which Minister Bručan even gave her a work permit, which is not the same as what they are actually doing. Lawyers such as Dr. Lojze Ude, as well as lawyers from the Ministry of Health, have found that the First Health Assistant is indisputably responsible for parallel health insurance, which is an activity of public interest under the Health Care Act. Professor Šima Ivanjko also doubts that the business of PZA is, I quote: "as set up, in accordance with the insurance rules." The services provided by the First Medical Assistant are the services to be provided by operators within the public health network. For these services, all citizens are already insured and we pay a health contribution. All the first medical assistants offer is easier access to these services and the skipping of any waiting period. In Del on 15 March 2006, it was pointed out that the Director of PZA, Dr. Vito Vidmar, and co-founder of Dr. Marko Bitenc for diagnostic investigations in PZA offer no more than a week of waiting time. The activity of the First Health Assistant, as currently organised, is an indisputable violation of the law. It is true that the Minister has pointed out this to the Insurance Supervisory Agency and to the facts he refers to in his opinion we fully agree. But no more PZA still works. And if their operation is illegal and in fact means doubling services already paid, it means stealing money from people. The start of the PZA's operation dates back to 2005. This spring they presented themselves publicly. At the end of May, the Ministry of Health issued an opinion on their operation. In particular, it concludes with an interesting conclusion, as the Minister notes that the offer of PZA presents a challenge to the public health network and shows shortcomings in the current health legislation and the offer of insurance companies. The question follows: When will Minister Bručan correct this legislation, which is lacking? Nothing happened all year 2006. We also do not know that the Ministry of Health would take any action and shape its position and warn other competent authorities about the functioning of the Revit Institute, which also operates in a similar way. Have you taken any concrete steps in this regard? And what does that look like in practice? I have here a statement from a paramedic who was called to an emergency transport to an elderly hospital. The hospital called 112 and told him that the doctor had already called PZA in the morning. Later, from his conversation and papers, the paramedic found that the hospital had secondary services working for the PZA, while the specialist’s stamp was used in the work. And this doctor, the secondary, charged her 15,000 for a home visit and 7,000 for an injection. Then he ordered her to call 112 for free emergency services if something went wrong and the pain wouldn't stop. And, of course, she did call this paramedic. And such naive patients are now a few thousand, and they are invited to their networks with the following ad. This was published in the Journal and let me first say that, as far as I know, advertising health activities in Slovenia by law is not allowed at all. But it's the least evil. In it PZA, established by recognized doctors, including Dr. Bitenc, and in which there are about 15 doctors and 60 specialists, invites people to receive 5,500 SIT per month, here I have increased what they get. They get, as it says, 24-hour help, the doctor comes home, you see what it looks like earlier, 24-hour medical advice on the phone. And that is something that we can say peacefully that we all have already provided within the public health network, and we are also paying insurance for it. Here are two interesting, attractive and tempting services: quick access to specialists and quick access to diagnostic procedures. Interesting. Interesting in particular for the anti-corruption commission and Mr Kos. Most PZA specialists also work in public institutions and apparently fast access to a specialist means that in many cases they carry out a check on behalf of the PZA, with the guides, during regular working hours in the hospital. But who will provide control and who will enter the offices and check and who can guarantee that what I am talking about is not happening? We have a notice that's happening. In this regard, Jernej Merhar of the Insurance Supervisory Agency stated, quote: "If the operator provides services on the basis of a medical guide, then it is the insurance business services and clearly as a member of the PZA buys only the skipping type". The faster diagnostic procedures, it says on the ad. What procedures? Magnetic resonance, CT, ultrasound, how and where? With the travels, even in the public service, especially the Clinical Center? Where we're supposed to keep waiting lists. So that, to put it mildly, is very controversial. Even advertised, in the eyes of everyone, because that means waiting periods are not respected. Travellers should not be used in private health activities, which should be PZA and which they also agree to. That is why they were later removed from the contracts, but there is still a great fear that they are not adequately separated from the public and private sectors, especially as long as doctors working in PZA are regularly employed in public institutions rather than in private. Through good connections and knowledge, networks of specialists, founders of PZA, you can get faster examinations and faster diagnostic procedures at the expense of all others waiting. We can peacefully conclude that this means that for 5,500 SIT per month paid by PZA members, this means the passage of waiting species. At the same time, you, Mr. Minister, are being played by the system and served. The Minister, when we have warned him about this in interpretation, instructs us, quote: "That he does not allow and does not know the further extension of the practice of PZA to other doctors requiring payment for certain phone counselling services or other services that are not foreseen in the system." We read you an advertisement for PZA, you can see things online, and if you still pretend you don't know it, you obviously don't read the papers. On 19 April, the article "Unlawful and Ethical Advice" was published in Del with concrete names and services. It gives an example of a pediatrician named Dr. Aide Cimperman, who first charges 7,000 a year for being available on the phone outside of work hours, and then for every advice, an additional 2,000 tolars, if advice is given this afternoon, or 2,500 tolars, if advice is given at night. With public cash registers offering emergency networks to everyone. Free or whatever we are obliged to pay under compulsory insurance. But people are ill-educated and obviously you, as guardian of the public system, cannot guarantee the order and legal functioning of those on whom they depend at the moment of the disease. This article also mentions Dr. Dejan Krečič’s doctor and the fact that there are still many cases. The Revita Institute is also mentioned and appears several times. In connection with this activity too, the name of Dr Mark Bitenc appears, which points once again to the clientistic actions of Minister Bručan to a member of his political party's bodies. This has not only violated legislation regulating health insurance but also legislation regulating the conflict of interest of public servants and their conduct in this regard. All of this is certainly the fault that is happening and the responsibility of Minister Bručan, who does not prevent or allow it. Minister Bručan knows or should know and act. Instead, he, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Government continue to spread such illegal practices and could also say corruption of fraudulent practices. Among the greatest achievements of his mandate, the Minister considers the reduction of waiting periods. However, cases and events in direct practice have led to poor light and doubt that it is also misleading and manipulating. First of all, we report to Minister Bručan that he was delaying the use of funds for additional programmes to eliminate waiting periods in 2005, causing invaluable damage to pending patients. In the previous mandate, the government, by amending the Tax Procedure Act, allowed more than 5 billion contributions to compulsory health insurance to appear on a single basis as a result of the revised payment of compulsory insurance contributions in January 2005. At the office assembly, a balance was adopted immediately at the beginning of the year, in agreement with the Minister, which provided for the use of these funds for the elimination of waiting periods, with which waiting periods would begin to be reduced immediately. Despite the clear support of the ZZS Assembly and the willingness of the contractors to carry out this project, the Minister has inadvertently blocked the use of these funds waiting for the ZZS account or the Treasury account. The start of the use of these funds was only released in October 2005. To date, funds have not been fully used. For July, we have information that 17% of the money is unexploited, unrealised, despite the fact that all of this was already known in October 2004 and immediately at the beginning of the mandate. This has resulted in invaluable damage to citizens, since the funds could have contributed much earlier to the reduction of the age. What does nine months mean for those awaiting emergency surgery? And what it means to stall because of the minister's inefficiencies, patients know best. And this: We have repeatedly warned you about all of this in the National Assembly in the questions sent by Members of Parliament and Members of various parties. Special attention is due to the manipulation of the minister with waiting periods. As early as mid-2005, the minister announced a significant reduction in waiting hours in health care by the end of the year. This is an article from Del. The minister says he doesn't remember predicting such short periods. But this article says, the article is from September 2005, "after a new year we will be without waiting for open-heart surgery and an immediate examination of magnetic resonance and CT will be possible." Next, "in some areas of the waiting period there will be no more," Minister Bručan announced yesterday, "it will allow the adoption of an annex for these 5.5 billion on Wednesday, and for this money 20,000 patients will be admitted more than last year to hospital treatment and 40,000 to the infirmary." Next, "less than a month or immediate access by the new year will be possible for diagnostic tests with magnetic resonance, a computer tomographer that has to wait for a truly unacceptable period so far." There was a waiting period of two years at the Clinical Center. "...there will also be no need to wait for open-heart surgery, dilation of coronary arteries, coronation and naked surgery," according to the Ministry. "The patients will also be provided with anginography and mammography within a month of their deployment," said Minister Bručan and so on and so on. September 2005. He predicted that the waiting periods for investigations and operations would be significantly reduced. At the time, he was warned by the professional public that it was not possible to reduce waiting periods by significantly increasing the number of diagnostic and therapeutic services that required even more funding. Nor can such a measure be implemented within a few months as an organisational adjustment of operators is necessary. That these warnings were on the spot also shows that the Minister now acknowledges these problems in response to the interpretation. When the data at the end of October 2005 with the material of the Health Insurance Office showed that waiting periods were not being reduced, Minister Bručan publicly declared these data incorrect and began by exerting pressure on health service providers to show a reduction in age in any way. In the absence of a significant increase in the number of these services in those two months, the contractors, on the fact that the Minister has a direct influence on the Directors, since they can easily be suspended by the majority of them in the secular institutions, in a waiting period survey two months later, show a completely different situation and report on significantly shorter waiting periods. Of course, it should also be pointed out that surveys, most of them are only telephony based on analyses and data operated by the Ministry, are a very inadequate form of data acquisition, especially telephony, among more superficial and inaccurate forms of data collection, and on the other hand there are no publicly available and published waiting lists where patients would find themselves with their name, number, date. As long as it is not, there will be a lot of things, Mr Minister, which you are calling a success that is subject to reasonable doubt. Let us say that we also went directly to the Clinical Center and identified the situation in practice, asked people and looked for the possibility of entering the waiting list. We have experienced very unusual situations and perhaps you, Minister Bručan, should ever go to waiting rooms and among people to tell you, as we have told us that much of what you are saying publicly is simply not true. How, then, do I emphasize, not all of us, but in some areas, the waiting periods are shrinking? By manipulation, either by sharpening the service indication or by delaying the application of new patients. The latter has become a practice in many institutions. Because the waiting period is counted from the day the patient is allowed, if I may say so, the application, it is clear that it is a manipulation. You also say that during the waiting period the period from entering the waiting book to the day when the volume is completed; and here it happens. Let me give you two examples first. An ocular examination in Škofja Loka, where patients cannot actually be enrolled at the 2007 waiting period, is not included. These cases, when doctors don't even register, are huge. The real horror is the situation of magnetic resonance investigations at the Clinical Center, where you promised very great progress on magnetic resonance, where it has been shown that between November 2005 and October 2006 patients were not enrolled and directed to other hospitals or to paying services in Medlab. We called on the phone, Mr. Minister, 28 November 2006, that is 14 days ago, and received the following stuttering answer to the question whether we can apply with a travel agent for magnetic resonance: 'Oh, ma'am, you know, something's wrong with the papers, it's new, it stands - reading the record - 'you can't order. You know what, try Medlab or Ptuj or Isol." In this case, too, the patient was removed and not listed on the waiting list. You, Mr. Minister, say in your response to the interpolation that, I quote, "extremely increased the accessibility of residents to magnetic resonance investigations". Clearly, we have doubts about your information. It is said that for the magnetic resonance area, the numbers in your surveys show that the number of investigations increased by only 14%, while the waiting period decreased by 47% at the same time, which is undoubtedly completely illogical. How it came to be, we introduced it to you. It is also interesting how you are advised as a patient to send a guide - by post. Our sources at the Clinical Center have confirmed that in some sections of this leaflet are stored in closets, that ordered via these leaflets do not fit into the waiting lists and that they do so only when they get the order from the top. Our walk around the Clinical Center gave a number of other interesting and shocking answers. In the course of the reviews, there are a whole lot of people who are waiting for much longer, as stated on the website or in your survey data, as has been confirmed by many of the bitter waiting patients we have met. Thus, the gastrointestinal hospital should wait until the end of March, and not for 65 days, as officially announced. The first examination of neurosurgery is expected for 60 days and not for 21 days, and last week the date of 15 September 2007 would be obtained for an orthopaedic examination. We also asked for an ultrasound of the knee and shoulder, where waiting periods were supposed to be based on online data for 180 days and in practice we received a date in 11 months or 330 days. You talk a lot about waiting numbers, shortening waiting periods, looking at data online. Interesting! In the Clinical Center, there are still 330 days waiting for surgery in the chronography, for surgery of the goose still 210 days, for surgery of the oesophagus 870 days, for surgery of malignant tumours of the kidney, bladder, prostate, up to 60 or 90 days, surgery of the hernia has a waiting period of almost 2 years, gallstones 1 year, gray dark 8 months, spinal surgery 1 year, for eye surgery you wait for 420 days, and a kind of record is knee and ankle surgery, with 1080 waiting days, that is more than three years. The achievements that you are moving forward as your success are quite modest, and they have been largely made possible by the additional money collected at the Institute due to the tight tax procedures adopted by Minister Maramor. These were one-off funds. What is your long-term, systemic solution to this worst problem in Slovenian health care, we do not know. We can therefore talk about the absence of a strategy to address waiting times. In most European countries where they are facing a waiting period problem, the ministries of health are paying special attention to this issue and are also looking for systemic solutions, not just firefighting. After two years of your mandate, you would be expected to prepare an analysis of the causes of waiting periods, leading to conclusions, where and how to act. We could explain to ourselves and the public whether it is a lack of personnel, equipment, premises or other working resources for the treated, whether it is a poor organisation and low productivity, or whether there is insufficient money in the system. Only such an analysis would give a concrete answer to where and to what extent waiting periods are justified. However, Minister Bručan does not have an answer to these questions and does not seek it; non-systemically, he spends every year the money he saves on the Institute of Health Insurance without a specific analysis, and he devotes it to additional programmes in areas where there are waiting periods. Such a way of directing financial resources poses a risk of encouraging operators to hyper-production of these services and of artificially maintaining waiting periods in these areas, as they then receive more money for this. This is also how we feel about orthopedic conditions. The fact is that waiting periods sometimes also result from poor organisation of work and low productivity in some hospital departments. It is known that some doctors perform only one operation per week and that some departments are far behind standards recommended and enforced in some Western countries in this regard. Therefore, instead of looking for solutions to the waiting period problem by Minister Bručan, it is necessary to distort data and show success in shortening waiting periods, which in many cases are not really there. It is difficult to talk about objective success in reducing waiting periods until they introduce a national waiting list and a waiting system for an intervention that will be transparent and until the information on this issue is collected on the phone on a case-by-case basis. Minister Bručana is not interested in the systematic approach to this problem, as his popularity between doctors and health professionals could decline. That's not what he wants. In doing so, it completely forgets how the waiting periods are tolerated by individual patients, who at this time may even be incompetent to work and their quality of life is greatly reduced. Such a minister’s attitude towards this issue indicates that he is very poor in his health and is not prepared to address the system’s weaknesses and that he is neglecting the interests of the patients. In my explanation of the content of the interpolation, I have presented in more detail only part of the reported irregularities and violations of the laws and causing great harm and failure to monitor and comply with the laws. Mr Ljubo Germič will give further details on the absence of a national strategy and on the type of other new legal regulations that you have announced that they will be adopted quickly, "ad hoc", at least so we were able to understand when you presented yourself for the position of minister two years ago. Above all, the problem posed by the inability to engage in dialogue and dialogue with the social partners and the public, which, unfortunately, Mr Minister, has been marked in particular by arrogance, arrogance and the playing of the already agreed. In particular, I would like to point out the underestimating relationship are the many societies in which patients are part and number more than 100,000 members. There have been proven cases where the Minister publicly stated that they were involved in the negotiations, but they were not, or the case of the unequivocal desire for non-transparent introduction of comparable medicines, when he assured the companies that it was not and would not be in the Drug Law, and then it was only after the law, just before the adoption, that he withdrew the pressure of MPs in the National Assembly, including coalitions to all happiness, which was created just because of warnings from these mass societies. Mr Germič will also present in more detail the findings of 2 billion damages arising from inappropriate conduct and failure to respect the law and regulation in the purchase of medicines and cases of incompetence and clienteleism in the purchase of medical equipment and the provision of services. Of course, the Minister also sees inefficiencies in cytopathology and the illegal functioning of the SIZE laboratory. For these reasons, we propose that the LDS Members and Members of the State Assembly, after the conclusion of the debate on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health, Mr Bručana, decide to dismiss the Minister from his office as Minister of Health. We also expect support from other fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues, particularly those who care about the fate of Slovenian health care and who do not care what kind of health care we will have in the future. They are also very important for two years. In doing so, we are not primarily thinking about politics, but about patients and patients, about their situation in the health system, about solidarity, about accessibility, about whether we want to or not, we need more and more as patients every day for health services from our own pocket, because the system is wasteful, poorly organised, irrational, and even worse, because of the violation of the legislation, there is a situation that we can call a place of money for something we have already paid. And in all this, Minister Bručan has a great responsibility for the state in which we are, even in the field of health policy. Of the number of reforms and changes he announced loudly, no work has actually been done in two years. Whoever does not believe us to read and take the time to read the Magnography of the hearing at the time of the opening of the term of office and thus see what is the difference between promises, forecasts and visions and what Minister Bruč is actually doing and has actually done within two years of his term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u3	Thank you. You received the reply of Minister of Health Andre Bručan to the interpretation by letter dated 10 November 2006. I give the floor to the Minister for the explanation of the written reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The impressions in the interpretation of my work and responsibility as Minister of Health submitted by the LDS Group of Members and Members of the LDS party with the first signed Cvetko Zalokar Orazem, I have clearly rejected in my written reply to the President of the National Assembly on 10 November 2006. In my reply, on the 85 pages, I took all the impressions in the text of the interpolation, despite their impreciseness, the flat-rate reference of the demagogue charges and the constructions systematically rejected them in seven sets, and the answers were reinforced by the facts, data and quoting of the applicable legal standards. I have only a few materials left, some materials and documents that further demonstrate the non-reality and incomprehensibility of certain claims in interpretation, but not all were included in those responsible for their excessiveness, but are available at the Ministry of Health. Initially, I would like to present to this assembly three conclusions that point to public fraud, which are characteristic of the content and authors of interpretation, which have been able to regulate, reform and regulate the healthcare system for 12 years, but have left only problems behind. With this interpretation, its writers, in addition to not knowing the law of the country, Slovenia, to the Slovenian public in particular, have demonstrated their inability to manage the Ministry of Health in the previous term. You are expressing yourself as a party to the European situation a strange level of political culture despite the clear message of voters in the national elections and the confirmation of the recent local elections, for you still allow that your former minister, who has had the opportunity and the duty of four years to perform most of the tasks that have been read to me in the interpretation of the opinions already rejected and flat-rate assessments, has required my mandate to carry out these tasks in less than two years. Let me quote the most perverse sentence in the interpretation: "We expected Minister Bručan to propose the adoption of a new healthcare plan based on the White Paper of Health Reform." And this is exactly what was documented in the response by the own party of the former Ministry of Health and a party to the writers of this interpretation. As I expect from the opposition's type of interpretation, especially in today's or tomorrow's debate the criticisms and the weaknesses of our health system, I need to ensure that the Slovenian public and Members, who can objectively assess the written answers already submitted, and in particular to respect for the truth in this Chamber of Democracy, are able to ensure that the Slovenian healthcare system works well and reform processes, upgrades and changes must continue to take place in order to change it and improve it. It is clear that the system does not tolerate revolutionary interventions, so we do not recommend or implement major complex reforms. That is why, in the coalition contract, we have also stated, inter alia, that progressive, European comparable reform processes are needed to address the underlying weaknesses and to further develop health care in the country, while ensuring the broadest possible social consensus between professional and civil associations. We are implementing a coalition treaty, and time dynamics are also conditioned by my approach to persevering in social dialogue. The commitment to obtain a social consensus confirms the 9-month coordination of the Health and Insurance Act, which defines the rights of all citizens to healthcare. With the legal changes in preparation, we increase the accessibility of citizens' rights and expand, taking into account the scale and standards of the developed EU countries, as we have also stated in the coalition treaty. The long-term and successful foundations were laid in the laws adopted by the Demos Government in 1992, since after 14 years when Slovenia was the only country to maintain a high level of health care for citizens and even a wider range of rights than developed countries, we can proudly compare ourselves directly with these EU countries. I can't imagine any Slovenian government eliminating compulsory health insurance, solidarity or substantially reducing rights, as feared by interpolation investors. This is about the civilisational achievements that we have further upgraded and complemented, and extended, for some groups, the right to health care in compulsory insurance, with the intergenerational reciprocity of the Young for Old People, in the area of supplementary insurance. I am very pleased, but with all the criticism, I have therefore examined and presented a study on the quality of the health systems of the 25 countries of the European Community and Switzerland, entitled "Euro Health Consumer Index", presented in June 2006 by the prestigious Health Consumer Power House in Stockholm. Unfortunately, the special press conference on this subject did not receive an appropriate response when I highlighted and made commitments there after further improvements. Slovenia, on the basis of comparative data in 2005, ended up in the 12th place between all EU countries, the United Kingdom, Greece, Portugal and Ireland. After the efficiency of the funds used, Slovenia overcame all EU countries and was even the first among all countries. Slovenia has also become an enviable fifth place after the level of treatment of patients, 7th place after treatment outcomes, 8th place after the exercise of patients' rights and in the field of drug consumption took 11th place. So we are in a golden European environment. It all suggests that these evaluations will be even better in the future. You have read to me after this presentation that I am boasting about the good results that have resulted from work in the previous period. In any case, I can confirm once again that this assessment of our health system is a result of long-term action in the field of health organisation and the joint effort of all institutions in the healthcare system. When we take over, we have set ourselves the task of ensuring further improvement of the system in terms of cost-effectiveness. Taking into account all these improvements made in 2005 and 2006 and not yet covered in the survey, our result would be significantly better. In this case, Slovenia would be ranked in the 12th place at 7th place and further improvements should be discussed at the expense of patients' rights, waiting time information and innovative medicines. During the first two years, the Ministry of Health has effectively achieved its objectives under the Coalition Treaty and through measures in the context of economic and social reforms. Let me point out, in particular, only some important achievements and achievements. First of all, in the area of increased accessibility of health programmes. In the first two years of the mandate, we extended the public network to 94.6 teams, at primary level 49.8 and at secondary level 44.5 teams. Thus, accessibility for general medicine programmes, dispensers for women, dentistry, pedopsychiatry, orthodontics, physiotherapy, developmental outpatients, ophthalmology, internal medicine, surgery and psychiatric care has increased significantly. We have also expanded the network of operators at diagnostic therapeutic treatment. So today we have as many as six magnetic resonance devices, out of a total of 13, six of them in the last two years, three new chronographic centres, five of them combined, and four new operators for shadow operations since the total of 19. The number of cardiovascular patients treated with coronary and cardiovascular interventions increased from 6,594 in 2004 to 9,008 patients, i.e. 2,414 patients and 36% more treatments. A total of 11,600 patients will be treated this year. The number of waiting was reduced from 1725 to 400. By the end of the year, this number will also be halved by a total of 10 times. At the same time, the waiting period will be shorter than one month in all three cardiovascular and two intervention centres. All emergencies are, of course, dealt with without delay. Within 21 months, the number of pending dark-skinned operations decreased from 14174 to 5369 or almost 3 times, the waiting period is less than 6 months, and according to the latest data, there is only three months of waiting time in the Clinical Center. In 2006, 23302 magnetic resonance investigations were conducted at 11 centres in Slovenia, an increase of 8,862 investigations over 2004 or 61%. The completed waiting period was reduced by 10.3 months to 4.8 and 5.5 months in the first year alone. In six centres, the waiting period is expected to be less than 3 months, in two less than a month. We have accelerated the introduction of new technologies and innovative medicines. Thus, among the first countries of the European Union, we introduced herceptin in the treatment of patients with breast cancer at the expense of a health insurance company. The completion of the emergency medical assistance project and the adoption of a network of additional associations of this service with on-call services and additional funds of 1 billion tolars has also significantly improved accessibility in the field of emergency medicine. The project of the Network of Emergency Centres is included in the State Development Programme for realisation by 2012. In December, emergency helicopter medical assistance was re-established, which represents a significant improvement in emergency assistance. In the area of quality, we adopted a document of the National Guidelines for Quality Development, prepared a programme for self-assessment and accreditation, conducted a survey on quality conditions in hospitals. During the conference on patient safety in Ljubljana, Slovenia signed a statement by the World Health Organisation on the management and prevention of health-related infections. The Ministry of Health coordinated the preparation and completion of a plan to prepare for the flu pandemic with appropriate algorithms and annexes. For the purpose of good pandemic preparedness among the first countries, we have secured the purchase of antiviral drugs in quantities sufficient to treat at least 25% of the population, which is also the wish and recommendation of the World Health Organization. Investing in building and equipping hospitals is an important task of the Ministry of Health and a great deal of work has been done in this area. In the first year of the mandate, all investments in hospitals increased by 1.7 times compared to the previous year and amounted to 11 billion tolars. By Wednesday, November 2006, he had already realised the level of investment in hospitals of 9.7 billion tolars. In 2005, we opened a new modern psych ward at Maribor General Hospital, a new department for the elderly at Ljubljana Psychiatric Clinic, completed the fourth phase of the rehabilitation of the Psychiatric Hospital in Begunja and the renewed operation block of the General Hospital in Jesenice. With many other equipment, two new high-performance linear accelerators were also supplied and a magnetic resonance imaging device and a computer tomography device for the University of Ljubljana. The construction of a neurological clinic was completed at the Clinical Centre, construction of an otological and ocular department was completed at the Maribor General Hospital, and the two new buildings were in the process of acquiring equipment. At the General Hospital Trbovlje, a new X-ray machine was purchased. A new maternity ward was opened at Novo Mesto General Hospital. The construction of the Oncological Institute will be completed this year, after the equipment has been completed, the investment will be fully completed in spring 2007. In both years, according to previous years, the level of co-financing of municipal investments in healthcare homes and health stations throughout Slovenia was also significantly increased. Before this high assembly, I must also draw the attention of the Slovenian public to the demagogic claims of the first-signed Members of the Interpellation of the Cveta Zalokar Orazem, who last week in the knowledge that the answers were substantiated and supported by the evidence completely destroyed all the content of the interpellation submitted, with demagogia they came to the aid of the insurers. I quote: "Interpellation has been tabled because of Slovenian patients and patients who are not interested in politics only when they will be scheduled for surgery." That's what I'm interested in, and in that sense, I work all the time. Dear Member, first of all with concrete answers, let me respond to the patients you are misleading and exploiting for your own political purposes. When I took over my mandate from former Minister Kebra, there were 77,342 waiting lists on poorly run waiting lists in health care institutions in July 2005. As early as the first year of my term, the number of waiting patients decreased to 35%, that is to say 50,000 and a few patients, and in 2006 they will fall to 17,620 patients. In two years, this means that the number of waiting patients has decreased by more than four times, with an increase in the number of patients being treated in an acute manner in 2005 by 10.085 patients or 3.1% compared to 2004, and this year is estimated to be similar. I answer you personally and your colleagues to the co-signatures of interpretation: no data manipulations have been and are not available; they are evidenced both by the health insurance company and the Ministry. Such success in reducing waiting periods has been achieved through the sacrificing work of doctors and health personnel who no longer deal with the affairs produced by your minister month after month. For the additional work done, we have provided health workers with a fair payment by supplementing the Medical Services Act for all health workers. In order to expand the programmes, the current Government has also confirmed more money within two years of the mandate, a good 36 billion for the health treasury, which is all precisely explained in response to the interpolation. In January 2005, the Government adopted a Convergence Programme, which provides for the collection of cumulative debt by the State budget from a health insurance company created by the end of 2004 of 28.65 billion tolars. In 2003 and 2004 alone, 21 billion debt was incurred and this was covered by the Convergence Programme. The insurance company is now operating in the second consecutive year without any deficit or debt in line with the convergence programme commitment. That is why it was also possible to allocate 2.7 billion tolars by means of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget to specialisation and traineeship, which will not reduce the rights of insured persons, as you intimidated the insured. There is an estimate that the insurance company will also end the end of this year with an surplus even higher than last year's. Thus it was possible to implement the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to devote 15.5 billion to better evaluate programmes, urgently expand and introduce new treatments. This was the coalition goal number 4, which reads: "We will work with systemic measures to reduce the structural deficit in the health treasury and to improve financial solvency," fully fulfilled at the beginning of the mandate. In preparation for interpolation, writers are launched into the public, the concept of privatization in health care with only bad adjectives: wild, uncontrollable, clientelistic, corrupt and more. If you had anything for patients, you would not have burdened them with these untruths and blinded them with an ideological vocabulary from the 1970s, in their greatest tribulations and diseases, when because of you and the ideological beliefs of your predecessors, the private work of doctors was banned and we were health workers second-class citizens. It must be known to all that the granting of medical concessions is not a privatization of health care, I have repeated this several times, and I will, if necessary. Concession is only a national permit for the work of private doctors and other health workers in the public health network under the conditions of protection, public interest laid down in the concession contract. Any other privatisation, if you want to name it, is not in Slovenian health care. Concessions to work in the public network do not in any way endanger public health and do not undermine the rights of patients with compulsory health insurance. They do not mean any less laboratory services, nor do they mean self-payment for services. Nor do it mean dispersing citizens, and the work of concessionaires is done under exactly the same conditions, standards and rules as institutions. Concessions mean only greater choice, shorter waiting periods and greater accessibility to health services, which are paid from public funds, which is also confirmed by data. Each award of the concession shall also be considered seriously at the Medical Chamber, at regional level and at the Institute of Health Insurance before issuing an opinion required by law. While developed European and other countries in the years following World War II have developed effective public-private health systems with the possibility of private work and initiatives, we have been banned by ideological prejudice for decades. I hope we don't want to or you don't want the interpreters to go back to when private work was banned. These times are maintained today only in some countries, such as Cuba and North Korea. In 1991, we made it clear to Slovenian citizens that we no longer want to have the system we had. And, of course, the richest countries also face limited public resources, waiting times, the greater needs of the population to extend their lives. At the same time, all face the potential for developing the potential of medicine, healthy lifestyles, and medicines. In the ongoing reform processes, they are therefore looking for solutions to make more effective use of public funds. One of the biggest problems in public health systems is the low level of economic efficiency, which is reflected in the high cost of providing health services, and this is also due to high levels and financial pressure. Negative demographic movements, especially in our country, continue to increase these pressures. Due to the constitutionally guaranteed rights to social and health security of citizens, we are also obliged to seek ways and measures to ensure that health care is as good as possible. The free choice of a doctor is one of them. The implementation of various forms of public private partnership is one of the ways to manage balance and financial sustainability between needs and the realization of health insurance rights. It is a perfect conceivable that this will result in direct payment of services, as stated by members of the Civil Initiative for the Conservation of Public Health, among which there are few who visit the concessionaires when it comes to their health, while the citizens are afforded something else. However, the rights and services of compulsory insurance must be separated from the self-sustaining services for which each individual chooses freely, and the extent of the right to health care in our compulsory health insurance is so extensive and wide that every citizen can have a high level of health care and we must also ensure better organisation, competitiveness in accessibility and quality. And the work of concessionaires in the public network is only one of the options and paths for including these objectives. At this point, I must particularly reject the revelation of decomposition or even my underestimation of health homes. The departure of concessionaires does not in any way mean a breakdown of the healthcare home, but surely requires the reorganisation in the business and organisational field, while maintaining and improving the already allocated and financially defined coordination in the professional field, group prevention activities, public, emergency medical care, on-call services, the areas of operation of patient protection committees, the performance of long-term care coordination functions, the execution of a mortuary inspection service and all support services shall also be ensured for the integrated treatment of insured or patients from abroad, with equal or more frequent accessibility. In many cases, both Škofja Loka, Lucija pri Portorož, Postojna, Vrhnika and Domžal are very successful. In your three mandates, you gave 8 doctors at the primary level of the concession, 6 dentists and two pharmacies with your personal decisions, and I believe that you wanted only the best for your congregation. The data of the public opinion surveys show that patients are therefore more satisfied with the quality of concessionaire services, and that there is also less complaints through concessionaires and that this also improves the quality of public institutions and the organisation is improving; but nowhere do I say this, I have never argued that this is flat-rate, so that work in health homes and public institutions is poor, on the contrary, work in public institutions can also be good, but on average the survey shows such results. This is also evidenced by the fact that more than half of the citizens have already chosen a concessionaire as their dentist, and about 6,000 citizens have also chosen a general, school or child doctor. It is certain that the general physicians of concessionaires are more than the agreed programme of prevention. According to data from the working material, the recording of the primary level of healthcare network for 2005 covering 1,275 general and family doctors and pediatricians at primary level is the average chief of doctors employed in public institutions 1712 and the self-employed concessionaires 2371 or 651 higher and 38.5% higher. It is assumed that the proportion of identified persons actually visiting a personal doctor is the same for all operators and that the age structure and health status of defined persons per operator is comparable, and it is certain that self-employed doctors are more productive and more cost-effective with the same up-front payment. Dear Members and Members! In the second part, I would now like to say a few words before the end of this statement about the obvious about the preparation of health legislation, its implementation and the false denial that we do not control the prices of medicines. Unfortunately, you also used only some self-regulatory words from the 1980s in base interpretation here, without facts, and those few data you used are wrong. In the beginning, the Government's normative plan set out the deadlines, as mentioned in the description of the interpolation, but was later supplemented for all ministries. In changing the terms, the Government has also taken into account my reasons for changing the deadlines for drafting the laws that I have justified by the bad heritage that I had to adopt at the time of taking up the mandate. I inherited a lot of produced affairs. In the previous term, no system law was adopted, and I had open contracts at the Oncology Institute, operating tables, and so on. In particular, it was also a reason for the unfulfilled normative tasks to be carried out immediately with a view to joining the EU. In addition, health-care laws require the widest involvement of partners and the wide involvement of professional and other lay public. For example, another part of the Health and Health Insurance Act, the compensatory scheme, required as many as three months of coordination, negotiation and was then adopted unanimously in this Parliament in 2005. This principle was applied to the first part, which unfortunately extended to 9 months due to 20 negotiations and has not yet seen an end, so we now have to agree on yet another coordination. In the Law on Patient Rights, I have decided to present this in public debate after a demanding and professional way. The correctness of the decision is demonstrated by a number of responses that we have incorporated into the bill in an extended group of experts, legal and medical. Furthermore, I must strongly reject the statement and indications of billions of billions of dollars in interpolation due to the high price of medicines, because they are unrealistic and misleading. The price calculations quoted by the interpolation are tending and methodologically completely wrong, because they are not based on the rules in force, do not take into account the time-limits for the price and method of conversion in relation to the packaging and the pharmaceutical form. The way these calculations were prepared for interpolation has been discarded by recalculations based on the applicable rule and methodology of the three independent institutions. The specific information is clearly reflected in the written replies. On the basis of your own assessment, all of you who have read the material of the answers to the misrepresentations made in the interpolation may have found that nothing wrong or wrong is happening in our healthcare system, but at the very least something that would be detrimental to the interests of citizens or insurers. I myself have accepted the task of managing the ministry with a clear aim to raise the level of health safety of citizens and to maintain, or to increase confidence in the Slovenian healthcare and insurance system, which we want to gradually build up through reform processes. To this end, as well as my associates, I am bound not only by the promise of an oath in this assembly at the time of the appointment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also by the coalition treaty and programme voted for by the voters who elected this Government. I am sure that we have acted in harmony with the stated goals so far, and we will fully justify their confidence in our actions and decisions. The successful work and increased confidence in the work of the Ministry among voters is also clearly confirmed by even the investigation of the Politbarometer for November 2006, a public opinion poll in relation to the current situation carried out by the Centre for Public Opinion Research, so-called Tošev Centre, for years. According to these data, the Ministry of Health has received an assessment of work 3.02 and is in second place with the Ministry of Defence compared to other more exposed ministries. The Ministry’s work was assessed better than in 2004 and 2005. Similarly, the assessment of confidence in health institutions was better this year than in 2004 and 2005. Let this be further proof of good work at the Ministry of Health. The trend is therefore positive and confirms that we are on the right track. Perhaps we will not achieve any tasks or coalition objective as quickly as we optimistically announced at the beginning of the mandate. However, due to greater consideration, this will be more appropriate to people and patients. This is also my basic mission as Minister of Health. Finally, honourable Members, the initiators of the interpretation, please spare the citizens in these days of the debate, according to your estimates of the breakdown of public health or of health homes on payments in the public network, wild privatisation and the reduction of rights, etc., because I reject all of this again completely and rejected them in writing in my response to the interpolation. I expect, however, that today and tomorrow, in a constructive debate and a reasoned debate on the problems in Slovenian health care, which some have already appeared in the past, and we are now trying to resolve them as quickly as possible and in agreement with the social partners and civil society, not only with politics. I hope that with this brief introduction I have convinced you of the correctness of our operation and that you will not support the proposed interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u5	Thank you. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Mr Ljubo Germič will move the position of the Member of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister with fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! When I also listened to the introductory explanation or objections to the content of the interpretation of the Minister-designate, it reflects in fact the inconsistent nature of his answers, because if I quote only one of his statements here today, where he speaks of us as proudly looking at Slovenian health care, he says that the LDS has left only problems and dismays in 12 years. I would also add the assessment published in Del on 9 December 2006 in an interview with Dr Marusic, because it is said that Slovenians have one of the best health systems in the world. This smugness may not even be far from the truth. Of course, it is very surprising to speak here today so badly, so negatively by Minister Bručan about the Slovenian health system and the period of the Slovenian health system in recent years. In the LDS, we will support the interpretation of the work of the Health Minister, mag. Andrej Bručan, because we believe that Minister Bručan is not able to guarantee the realization of healthcare for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to organise a comprehensive and professionally demanding work on the preparation and implementation of laws and plans for health care, public health services networks, necessary standards and standards and various laws, and to use the knowledge of competent institutions and individuals which are few in Slovenia. Moreover, every day we can observe the breakdown of the health system, where private profits mean more than professional and ethically ensuring the health rights of citizens and citizens. Instead of talking about it, there's an authoritarian way of leading it. The Minister solves the problems he has accumulated with wild privatisation and with the proposed amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Institute, he tries to submit cash insurance to the Government after a well-known scenario. The result of such an approach is also a significant difference between the Minister's promises given, if we only remember the type of statements he made in his presentation in budgetary proceedings and in many other ways from the coalition contract, when we monitor the implementation of the Government's normative programme on the one hand and their implementation on the other. We believe that neither the Minister nor the Government know where the medical boat is going. Thus, in our view, Minister Bručan is responsible because the Republic of Slovenia does not have a healthcare plan despite clear legal provisions. Minister Bručan therefore violates Article 6 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must prepare a proposal for a plan for the health care of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly. Since the Health Care Plan of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2000-2004 ended at the end of 2004, the Government should submit to the National Assembly a new one for consideration. It was expected that the Minister would take priority in preparing a new healthcare plan based on a vision of a new government coalition, but that has not yet happened after two years of the mandate of Minister Bručan, despite his predictions and promises to prepare it by the end of 2005. The crime excuses the former Minister's guilt, but unfortunately, no one knows about the draft programme I am talking about and involving 46 recognised experts. Once again, it is a matter of promises that we can no longer believe in the LDS House of Members, so we believe that the preparation of the Health Care Plan, which is intended to define, inter alia, a strategy for the development of healthcare, tasks and objectives, priority development areas, the basis for the development of health activities at individual levels, the institution of tasks, the criteria for public health networks, for Minister Bručan, is a difficult task. Currently, the Republic of Slovenia is among the rare countries where the development of healthcare is directed without a national plan and after the sense of the minister and his advisers. The consequence of the unprepared plan and the absence of any development strategy is the fact that the entire health activity operates after inertia and without coordinated activities. Health activities have no objectives and tasks set, no priorities defined. All of this seriously endangers the public health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, there is no division between primary and other health activities, as even physicians themselves find out. For example, they point out that the Clinical Center is thus overloaded with patients who could be provided at primary level. The number of referrals is expected to increase significantly in recent years. The same is true in other hospitals, which increases the cost of healthcare and affects the extension of waiting periods and the irrational use of available resources at secondary and tertiary levels. In view of the available public health and insurance resources, this is unacceptable and shows poor management, which affects accessibility to health services and the capacity to meet needs. Despite forecasts at the beginning of the mandate, a network of public health services has still not been developed and adopted, allowing for a smooth and irrational development of health facilities. The absence of long-term planning is also reflected in the modest legislation of the Minister of Health. So far, no law has been drawn up to deal with the most pressing health and insurance problems. The exception is only an amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which amends the scope of the implementation of supplementary health insurance and does not implement this Act. The Minister has also not set himself a priority list in this area. The laws that are in preparation are late. Amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, the second part, were promised a year ago and are still not ready. There are also no amendments or new Health Action Act that would need the most new solutions. However, all of this is not surprising, given the kind of counselors the minister was dealing with. He has gathered people who adequately identify themselves politically and cliently, but who have neither the experience nor the knowledge in the field of legislation and regulation of the healthcare system, and who put their personal, prestigious and material interests at the forefront. Therefore, they cannot advise him on the right solutions, nor can they prepare the necessary reforms in the area. Despite promises by the competent minister to prepare a draft law on patients' rights by the end of 2005, there is no law in the legislative procedure. Due to known medical events, if he mentioned only wild privatisation procedures, drug testing, cytopathological examinations, inadequate preservation of documentation, and annual warnings from the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman, the law would be urgently needed. The rejection of our bill is only proof that the health care of the Slovenes and Slovenes is not the priority of this government. The Ministry is also lagging behind in preparing a proposal for the Mental Health Act and the Health Act. Experts ’ warnings about the serious damage caused by the backlog of the legal regime in these areas have been well known for a long time. In the proposal for amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Minister proposes to reduce the rights of citizens from compulsory health insurance. The most controversial content in the old law is clearly the right of the minister to compensation during the period of absence of the hospital for 30 days and is in line with the government's policy of reducing social transfers. In addition to the disease, Minister Bručan, during the negotiations on amendments to the law with insurance representatives, also took a bath in changes that severely restrict the autonomy of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and try to change it within the Minister's term. This is already reflected in the proposed change in the composition of the office assembly, in which the selection of insured persons is to be reduced from the current 25 to only 17 members. The proposal also foresees a strong increase in the number of government representatives, who are also expected to have special powers. This is a strong shift from the current practice of democratic decision-making on health insurance matters. Such management is not known in any country with a developed social health insurance system. It is the destruction of a tradition which cannot be explained in any other way than the desire of Minister Bručan and the Government to maintain and subdue this area in order to share health insurance in its own way, on the basis of political definitions and interests. In addition, Minister Bručan is also implementing human resources policy in an inappropriate manner, as he wants to resolve the successful management team of the institution which has been rehabilitated and whose work has been positively assessed by both the members of the Committee of the National Assembly for Budgetary Control and other public finances, as well as the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. It also contains a proposal for a number of professional and legal shortcomings that the Minister and his advisers have been alerted to but have not been willing to take into account. The negotiations on the text of the novel with the social partners ended this July at the will of Minister Bručan, and after four months the Minister of the Uncoordinated submitted it to the Economic and Social Council, which was jointly opposed by trade unions and employers. Despite the absence of a healthcare plan and on the basis of legal breaches, Minister Bručan has been speeding up the implementation of measures which constitute a decommissioning of public basic health. In doing so, the Minister shall have a completely unprofessional, outdated and harmful view of the situation, role and function of health homes as the basis for the organisation and implementation of basic health care at local community level. In the last period, it has also questioned the functioning of hospitals and the clinical field by accelerating the award of concessions. The process runs counter to legislation, without an open vision and strategy, without analysis of the advantages and weaknesses, financial assessments, without comparisons and analyses of foreign experiences and complete absence of dialogue with citizens. Nor does it take into account international comparative studies of health reforms in different countries on a global scale, which show that profitable health systems are less quality, more expensive and provide more health services that are totally unnecessary for people. At the time of his term of office, Minister Bručan announced extensive privatisation in the field of health services and repeatedly stated that in basic health care he would like to achieve as soon as possible a 100% transition of doctors to private workers, concessionaries. Although he did not publicly predict the intended extent of privatisation in secondary health care, he grants concessions without reservation and encourages the departure of doctors from hospitals, including tertiary doctors, among individuals. It is therefore necessary for the Slovenian public to make it clear that the award of concessions is not accompanied by appropriate regulation, supervision. The experience of other countries shows that private operators in the public health network need to have more controls, as their motive, this is profit, often leads to optimal solutions for users. In doing so, the Minister uncritically assesses the data of the survey from the Association of Private Doctors of Slovenia, which puts the financial reasons for the decision to leave the private sector only in the fifth to sixth place. Such an attitude also means making a fool of the common sense of the public, since the Fides doctor's union threatened to put the pay system and the financial effect on the first place after the doctor's departure. Therefore, the analysis of taxes and levies paid by doctors in the public sector in comparison with concessionaires puts the situation in another light and shows that, due to the transparency of their revenues, the State receives as much as 1.2 million dollars more from the public doctor. This difference, created by a private person by showing a small wage, remains to him as a profit. It is also a fact that concessionaires save money for their own benefit also by sending less to diagnostic examinations, with less treatment at home and patronage services, and by shifting costs to secondary and tertiary levels. This saving does not benefit the payer and the public health system. However, the public money that is intended for users flows into the private pocket of performers. Such an important and sensitive issue as the privatisation of the healthcare system, which touches more than 30,000 employees and touches all citizens, Minister Bručan takes non-transparent individual measures instead of unfolding his vision before the National Assembly and before the general Slovenian public. Therefore, in the LDS, we say that this is not a health policy, but a policy, because it has already been said today. The Minister does not act as the guardian of public interest, but as the holder of the partial interests of individual operators. The departure of doctors from hospitals is as controversial as leaving at the primary level. The departure of a top-notch expert means harm for all health care, as there is no way that a private person can carry out all his diverse professional activities and is not interested in transferring his knowledge to others and research work. The express Minister's demands that a particular concession be awarded bring non-transparent and "ad hoc" solutions in the form of simultaneous work in the public and private sectors, mixing public funds with private and thus channelling public funds into private resources, double-counting patients, skipping waiting lists from curves through a private person who works simultaneously in a public health institution. Such privatisation cannot be in accordance with public interest. At the secondary level, Minister Bručan awarded 32 concessions to new private operators in the first year of his term in 2005. Prior to that, 152 concessions were awarded from 1992 to 2004 and 22 were awarded in the last three years of the previous minister's term of office. It should be borne in mind that the number of doctors is limited and that it would naturally be expected that the concessions from year to year will be reduced, but the Minister of Hospital Physicians at the meeting encourages them to move to private work. So far, 14 concessions have been awarded in 2006 and the latest events show that 50 new ones have been awarded, now only for outpatient activities, and that they will be able to run for operational interventions on the following tenders, as in the case of Dr. Bitenc. The procedure for awarding the concession to Dr Mark Bitenc in 2005 meant the action of the Minister in contravention of the interests of the public institution and in favour of the private body, which is also its advisor. At the same time, he deceived the public that the Clinical Center would not lose the program and that Dr. Bitenza's programme was designed to shorten waiting lines. By granting the concession with the argument that the concessionaire would perform his private work in a public institution, Minister Bručan showed that he did not know or understand the concessions at all, since such a relationship could also be regulated by the agreement. If this procedure were a precedent, we can now monitor the process, with many other doctors in Slovenian hospitals obtaining concessions and parts of the programmes of these hospitals. It would also be interesting to hear how they demonstrate their suitability to meet the conditions, both human resources and spatial. Especially devastating effects have been the headlong distribution of concessions to doctors working in tertiary institutions, and I will describe this with an example of the clinical department for plastic surgery, which was once a parade horse of the Clinical Center and Slovenian medicine. The department, which was famous for its original ways of treating burns in the days of Dr. Mirko Derganca and which Dr. Marko Godina celebrated with his innovations in microsurgery worldwide, is now in a flood. Until the last award of the concessions, nine specialists were employed in the clinical department of plastic surgery, now three were awarded a concession, and the fourth was not only due to a mistake, so he may still get it. So it doesn't matter to the management of the Clinical Center, the management of the Department and the Minister of Health if they decimate a department that's had too few doctors so far. The top surgeon, Prof. Zoran Arnež, known for his operations around the world, received a concession for an outpatient job in Nova Gorica. His successor is also leaving for the presidency. It's throwing the most precious knowledge out the window. There's no more college teachers in the department. What will happen to the teaching and research work that has been in constant despair in recent years? Who will perform the most demanding operations and introduce new ones? Will this activity be restored by concessionaires who will work through the infirmary and at best engage in aesthetic surgery? These are unanswered questions, so the Minister and Management of the Clinical Center are fully responsible for the destruction of the clinical department for plastic surgery, so it is essential that the situation be rectified immediately. In addition to this imprudent privatisation process carried out by Master Bručan, various other forms of privatisation are also emerging which have the nature of introducing specific forms of voluntary insurance, beyond all official institutions of the system and contrary to applicable legislation. This is the case with the First Medical Assistant, who was even given his work permit by Minister Bručan. The services provided by the First Medical Assistant are the services that operators are obliged to provide within the public health network and for which all citizens are already insured and are paying health contributions. Despite warnings, the minister did not prohibit this activity, but allowed his friends to continue with it. In connection with this activity too, the name of Dr Mark Bitenc appears, which points once again to the clientistic work of Minister Bručan. Minister Bručan has also started implementing the announced policy of accelerated privatisation in the field of insurance. It was only to the great pressure of the public and the opposition that the Law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act was adopted in July 2005 with the consent of all political parties in the National Assembly. Under this law, the Mutual should have a statute which would be in conformity with the law adopted by 1 March 2006. Almost six months later, this was not the case, and Minister Bručan did not act. Thus, Minister Bručan apparently leaves the Mutual Wild Privatisation and, together with the Government and the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, declares that the authorities do not have sufficient leverage to prevent it. Such a minister cannot be trusted, which is an additional reason for his replacement. Minister Bručan, by showing short-term waiting periods, justifies one of his major achievements in ensuring that citizens have increased access to health services, but we can also see here that the Minister does not have a clear strategy. We would first expect him to prepare an analysis of the reasons for the waiting period, which would lead to conclusions on where and how to act. It is difficult to talk about objective success in reducing waiting periods until the national waiting list is mentioned and information on this issue is collected on the phone. In response to the interpretation, the Minister himself mentions the problems he faces in such data collection. Above all, it is interesting that if he does not like the data from the Health Insurance Office and on the basis of a survey, he will choose the Ministry of Health with the operators alone. It would, of course, be a matter of warning the Minister that it would be easier to walk through hospitals and to see for yourself what the truth is and, of course, Minister Bručan does not introduce a systematic approach to this issue. This attitude of Minister Bručan to this issue shows that he is very poor in his health, that he is not prepared to address the weaknesses in the system and that he is neglecting the interests of the patients. The Minister of Health can't afford to do that. In the LDS to Minister Bručan, I am referring to the evidence of billions of damages due to the high price of medicines, because despite the provisions of the rules on criteria for the pricing of medicinal products, we can find that the regulation does not work because the prices of certain medicines go well beyond the prices they should be according to the rules. Such a situation is not surprising, however, if we read the reply from the interpretation to this observation, where the Minister states that the consequences of the laws and regulations adopted during his term of office, which lead to a reduction in the use of public funds for medicines, will be expected only in the long run. However, the calculations show that only in the statin, Slovenian insurers overpaid medicines for a good billion tolars this year, taking into account other medicines, they overpaid at least two billion Slovenian tolars on an annual basis. That is why Minister Bručan is directly responsible. Disobedience of the Regulation and an error in the Ministry's indication was in the inadequate selection of reference drugs, as the licensed products were used to compare with generics, which is not permissible according to the rules of the Regulation, as it leads to a higher price. And that's the last thing that happened in that case. At the same time, it is interesting to note from the Minister that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance does not use the correct methodology in its calculations, while appointing an expert group among the staff at the Institute to prepare a new regulation. Of course, the Minister’s statement is well founded because he has all the levers in his hands. In this year's term of office, we have adopted both a new law and a new regulation which, given the knowledge of the situation, could also be different and could respond more flexibly to the situation on the medicines market. In the LDS Club, we read to the Minister the uneconomic behaviour and favouring of a certain provider when purchasing a linear accelerator and 18 operating tables. In June 2004, the call for procurement was launched by the Ministry under the leadership of the former Minister in order to achieve lower prices by pooling supplies for several hospitals. The decision to purchase together proved correct when the tenders were opened at the end of January 2005, i.e. already in the mandate of Minister Bručan. It has been shown that the tables, which are technologically and qualitatively perfectly comparable to the tables of Maquet, are able to obtain for almost half the price. So it's the table of the manufacturer Trumph. At that time, Minister Bručan could choose cheaper operating tables of the same quality, but without clear justification he cancelled this call and waited almost half a year to publish a new call, which was slightly changed. In the new invitation to tender, Minister Bručan decided to provide the table for Maquet, although the price was still 55% higher than the Trumf table offer. The tendering commission within the Ministry of Health has eliminated all cheaper bidders due to minor supply errors and has found no error in both dearest offers. This allowed Minister Bručan to choose the offerer from the Maquet table and boasted that he had chosen cheaper tables and that the Slovenians deserved the best tables. Since complaints followed the selection, after a lengthy process - since health workers and patients finally protested and forwarded by the President of the Republic and the Anti-Corruption Commission - the State Audit Commission found that the offer of the selected tenderer was incorrect and the Minister was forced to cancel the call. In the process of direct negotiations, the minister, interestingly, chose a cheaper bidder, this time Sočo Equipment, which offered tables to the producer Sordin. In this regard, the Minister, together with the work of the profession, which, in previous proceedings, blackmailed the tables of Maquet as the only one fit for its quality, changed rhetoric and began to claim that in fact all tables are as good or good as any table. He did not decide on the tables of Maquet, which belong in the same price and quality class as the tables of Trump, but on the tables of Sordin, which were 20 million more expensive and belong to a lower quality class. This proves the nullity of his arguments in the previous invitation to tender. In the meantime, the Government has also proposed - and the National Assembly has also adopted - amendments to the law governing public procurement so that, in the event of direct damage to life and health, the contracting authority can carry out the contract despite possible requirements for audit procedures. Mr Bručan immediately called for this legal provision to be able to make the last decision, as the audit applications were resubmitted. In addition, it is incredible that Minister Bručan used this argument after a year-and-a-half with biased decisions and favouring a particular tenderer himself contributed to delaying the procurement of operating tables. If it is true that health and human life were directly threatened in the interim period, then in the year and a half when the equipment was not purchased, there had to be a lot of irreparable for human health; and we are demanding an accurate report on this. If there were consequences, Minister Bručan must step down because of them, but if there were no consequences, the minister deceived the Government that if the table was purchased, it would have taken an excessive measure. At the time of the selection of the provider of the most expensive tables, the representatives of the Ministry of Construction of the Oncology Institute announced that it would be possible to operate at new premises in September or October of this year with new operating tables if these were delivered immediately. The fact that the first tables were not mounted at the Oncology Institute at all but at the Maribor hospital is evidenced by the fraud and abuse of patient pressure, whereas the takeover of the table at the Oncology Institute took place only in the last days of October. This proves that the supply of a table to the Oncology Institute did not at all constitute a critical point for the start of operations in new premises, as moving to new operating rooms depends on the effectiveness of the equipment tender and is expected to be in the beginning of next year. Minister Bručan also deserves to be made aware of the lack of regulation and lack of control in the field of cytopathology. On the Committee on Health of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in February 2005, at the request of the SDS Parliamentary Group after the outbreak of the cytopathological affair, an urgent meeting of the Health Committee was held. It was stated in the explanatory memorandum that certain explanations should be requested and, above all, a thorough debate should be held to address irregularities without delay in favour of the well-being of citizens. Let me point out that the speakers of the emergency meeting have written down that the new Minister will, on the basis of the facts identified, have the opportunity to act decisively to start correcting irregularities. A year after the first discussion, the Committee held a second debate, given that the Minister had not regulated anything during the year of his work. It showed that the situation was unchanged, and the individual facts even showed that the situation was even worse; and this is true today. Minister Bručan has not taken decisive action, yet has not regulated anything and has not taken measures to improve the situation in the area of cytopathological investigations. Most of all, however, we are concerned about the fact that the problem is not discussed and the measures announced have not been implemented. Such a standing expert committee has not re-examined all laboratories authorised. There is no amendment to the rules on the conditions to be met by laboratory for the screening of cervical swabs with a view to the introduction of defined procedures for internal and external quality control of work. No compliance with the Health Activity Act has been carried out. No reference laboratory has been established. No double review of 10% on blindly selected negative results in all state laboratories and a double review of all positive results is introduced. There is no single price defined for the screening of cervical swabs and no consistent control of the transparent use of funds over all operators in the process has been established. There are no direct contracts between the Department of Health Insurance and the laboratories. No reduction in the number of laboratories for cytopathology, state [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] for a total of 5 or less and not even a protected archive of preparations from laboratories which did not meet the conditions and which will be subject to different checks and studies during a transitional period in terms of the protection of women. [[...]] We are very concerned about the fact that, according to the cancer register of 200 women who suffer from breast cancer each year, half of women regularly undergo gynaecological examinations with abrasion, which has been assessed as normal or mildly altered, which proves that despite examinations, a woman is suffering from an incredible professional paradox which shows that the Minister has failed to take appropriate measures and that the profession is obviously unable to resolve this. For all the reasons mentioned in the LDS House of Members, we justify the right of interpretation against Minister Bručan, Minister of Health. As an additional argument, I would like to draw particular attention to the significant decline in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of the Ministry of Health in all the years of its mandate, which is evidence of its failure and weakness in the government team, while reflecting its weak programming vision, which would justify the need for greater resources. Moreover, by unreasonable proposals and mismanagement, the health treasury is failing to realize the rights of the insured or to violate their rights. This is how he proposed the transfer of commitments to trainees and secondary workers of three billion from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to health insurance, of course it is a transfer of liabilities, not a transfer of funds. If we add billions more to this - due to the inadequate cost of medicines, and if we add an amount to this due to the implementation of the primary helicopter emergency medical care that has been changing recently, we can estimate that it is a burden on the medical treasury for a good 5.5 billion. In his current mandate, Minister Bručan has also implemented very modestly the Government's normative programme of work in his field and has expressed difficulties in conducting social dialogue. If you allow me, honourable Members and Members of the Government, to conclude slowly, I would also, of course, draw attention to the attitude of Minister Bručan to the issues concerning his field. I will quote only one of his statements in response to a fellow Friend's question. I quote: "The findings that have been exposed here today that this is a kind of catastrophic situation, that the waiting days are longer, have nevertheless slightly forced me to smile." When the LDS filed an interpolation, it also seemed extremely funny to him. Even as we follow his behaviour today, we can see that many times, when we cite arguments for failing to implement the healthcare system, that these findings and these arguments are accompanied by a smile. Of course, Mr Minister, imagine whether with a smile they are monitoring developments in the field of health policy, including all those who are affected by your actions. From all the above, we will also support interpretation in the LDS Member Club with these additional arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. At the time of the intervention, the journalists asked whether we would support it, the Members and Members of the Social Democrats. Our answer was to expect the Minister's quality responses to the interpretation and to our questions raised and that our answer would be based primarily on the Minister's relationship to the so-called wild privatisation of health care. After examining the answers, we find that the Minister's answers to our questions and also to the interpretation that has been tabled are unsatisfactory. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have asked the Minister of Health, almost simultaneously with the moistureing of the interpellation, 11 descriptive questions, which were only an upgrade to our activities so far. Since the beginning of the so-called Janša government, we have asked the minister to respond to his activities by introducing private health care. In doing so, some have tried to attribute our general opposition to private health care as some sort of nostalgia after socialism. That is why, today, from this city, we are also telling the Social Democrats that we are not but a priori against the granting of healthcare concessions, but we demand that they be based on public and not private interest, that the distribution is consistent with our and European legislation and that the award is public and transparent and that the basis for the award of the tender is where the concession is assessed that it is in the public interest of the quality care provision of the public population, that the call for a precise rules of the game and that all potential concessionaires have equal opportunities. Let the introduction, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, negatively identify myself until the accelerated, even nightly award of concessions. The reduction of financial resources and programmes to healthcare homes and hospitals takes place without the consent of citizens, intransparency, without taking into account public interest, and in a narrow group of authorities and medical authorities. It looks like the minister is primarily an agent of the lobby of the doctors of the privatizers and not an agent of the interests of the insured. The Minister's argument in response to the interpolation that the allegations concerning the wild privatisation of health care are unfounded because privatisation is based on the legislation adopted in 1992, is common practice, as the then amendment of the legislation laid down only a possible framework for private work in health care, but nowhere did it put the possibility of compulsory award of concessions that would not be in the public interest, which is in practice happening today when without the necessary, clear legislation and without a clear health network grant concessions that threaten the public health network as a basis for ensuring uninterrupted health care for all people. This is also recognised by the Minister himself in response to our question, when he notes that in addition to municipalities, the Ministry must take care of uninterrupted health care in setting up a public health service network, including emergency medical care and emergency ambulances and emergency medical supplies. The granting of concessions for an indefinite period is also controversial. There is also a contentious provision that the concession agreement ceases only in the event of infringements and the like, rather than being granted only for as long as this would be justified by the public interest view. Much has been written in the past regarding the equal conditions of public health service, the failure of private employees to participate in the on-call service, the transfer of the financial burdens of heavier patients and expensive investigations into public institutions, artificial waiting types, the specific charging of health services and so on. The Minister is obliged to know about this problem and also to address them. The answer, however, makes it clear that the Minister does not want to recognize the underlying problems, which are also the result of the inadvertent introduction of privacy into health care. Thus, the Minister's reference to existing laws and the claim that the cessation of the disputed mode of award of concessions would constitute unlawful conduct is declassified. The breakdown of health homes and hospitals without the consent of the people, to the detriment of people and to the benefit of private interest is both illegal and incompatible with the public interest. We also reject the claims that all those who point to irregularities could remedy these irregularities in past mandates. This is an excuse for the government, individual ministers, who use it over and over again, when they do not actually see the way out, when they cannot solve the problems or challenges they face. We did not have this power, but all the years we have warned about our shortcomings, and in the municipalities where we were able to decide, we have stopped the award of concessions contrary to public interest. We believe that our efforts have also led to the adoption of the National Health for All Programme by 2004 and that this programme has actually been implemented. Despite the efforts of some back then, the role of health homes in the field of primary health care, health homes, which we have built many times in the past also through self-sustainment, has been recorded. Now these health homes are emptying out, private people with concessions are taking programs and doing their public activities elsewhere. However, patients are forced to follow them in this way. Therefore, the explanation is that 600,000 citizens have chosen a doctor of concessionaires, a simple deceiving, since in most cases these doctors have already been their designated doctors, in the meantime only their legal status has changed and many, unfortunately, also the address. The privatisation of the delivery of health services has indeed started in 1992, but since 1997 this process has stopped and almost ceased four years before the beginning of the mandate of Minister Bručan. Minister Bručan was obliged, before embarking on accelerated privatisations, to prepare analyses of privatisation so far, to prepare a health strategy and to obtain the consent of citizens to a new strategy, to draw up appropriate rules, laws and standards, and to ensure adequate supervision to protect patients in accordance with their own public interest, which in the field of health excludes the motive for profit. On the contrary, none of this has been done by the minister, even accelerating the privatisation of health care. Everything shows as if he, as some young economists, viewed health care as an economic activity aimed at making profits, not as a public good. The Minister rejects the findings in the full response to the interpolation and refers to no serious analysis or research to confirm the findings of the interpolation; however, if they are, it is mainly some kind of phone inquiry by the institutions. If there is really no analysis and research, we can ask ourselves on what basis health policy is based. As we know the sensitivity of social and health systems to change, as we have seen in the wake of major changes in these systems around the world, it is indeed extremely irresponsible not to say a word that shakes, to change the system without analysis in the way that the minister has already said he will strive for 50% of concessionaires at the primary level of healthcare. It is inconceivable that anywhere in the world, any minister as an advocate of good health care would seek to dismantle a network of health homes, which has proved to work well with other systems around the world. In any event, in the absence of serious analyses to be carried out by the Ministry, we must listen to many critical warnings about irregularities and the deterioration of the health situation that we are witnessing in public due to the illegal or at least severely irregular granting of concessions, poor concession contracts that threaten the existence of a basic health network of health homes, the reduction of prevention, which in the long term undermines the health image of the population, the unjustified saving of concessionaires in more demanding and costly investigations, the reduction of home-based treatment, the gradual reduction of monitoring of the development of the profession and so on. His actions clearly show us that the Minister is not a protector of insurance, that is, those who pay for health insurance, but mainly a medical lobby that wants to privatise public health. At the same time, when the Minister also stated to the Prime Minister that Slovenia had never gone so well before, and in reference to the high assessments of our health system, I add the words 'luckily still', he announced the reduction of rights. Why, what do you need it for? Given the good results, it is now almost time for us to seriously consider that the budget assumes the burden of exemption from the payment of supplementary health insurance premiums for socially disadvantaged persons, rather than turning this burden into a health allowance. Why, in the time of the Janša government, read the general well-being, reduce the rights of the sick from public funds and increase the pay when we get sick and get hurt. Perhaps all of us are still well aware of Minister Bručan's proposals on how to reduce long-term hospitals when a worker is due to return to work after a year, regardless of health status, or to remain in the hospital without the right to pay. Part of this story, one in connection with the innovations brought by the Health and Health Insurance Act, has been stalled by the pressure of the social partners, but it has also been very apparent how some of the ministers of Janša represent a partnership. The agreement on the basis of strength and not arguments was also characteristic of Minister Bručan, who has not been involved in many negotiations, which he likes to refer to. Unfortunately, only one of the ministers who does not respect social dialogue has so far been resolved on a proposal from the Prime Minister. This should be followed by the Minister of Inter-Better today. For quite some time now, we have been asking the Social Democrats for a professional analysis that would serve us, especially the Minister, in making decisions on the further introduction of private health care. Analysis on the basis of which the state of the healthcare system would be comparatively determined before and after the award of the concessions. A professional analysis that would answer the fundamental question of why so many doctors want to be among individuals with concessions, whether the reason is the quality of services, access to services and care for patients, and whether there may be a reason for economic nature, perhaps health as a market value. The Minister responds that the Ministry of Health’s specific expertise is not an order. It refers to the Faculty of Social Sciences' public opinion survey and provides answers to questions about how the level of services with private people has changed and how you have been satisfied with the services of a private doctor. These results can be interpreted or interpreted differently. When asked how the level of private services has changed, almost 36% replied that the level of services has improved, everyone else did not feel that way. How pleased you were with the services of a private doctor, more satisfied than with the facilities, says 17.6%. Everyone else does not agree with this, and if we consider that 73.3% of them did not seek help, so that at the moment they did not have experience with individuals or employees in public institutions, the result is rather poor and not good. As I said, these results can be interpreted differently, but the final assessment is that they do not give an answer which could be attributed to it for further decisions. At the very least, the decision made by the Minister to ensure that public health with concessions is only obtained, in particular because competition between good doctors is increasing, the health network with private investment in premises and equipment is becoming more efficient and prudent in limited public funds. The Minister argues that by granting concessions he wants to overcome the monopoly of public institutions and create the opportunity for competition between public institutions and concessionaires. It states that by granting concessions it is intended to ensure better and fairer access to health services. However, the Minister does not tell what the monopoly of institutions is, nor does he recognize the fact that the State and he, as the Minister of Health, are obliged to provide so-called monopolies in areas where market receptions are not recommended, which is clearly the field of health. I repeat what we have stated several times in the past. It is not possible to assess the quality of individual physicians or doctors based solely on their status, whether they are employed in public institutions, or whether they are concessional doctors. Nor do we oppose increased competition between good doctors, even though it would be better to consider how to prepare those less good to improve quality or to remove them from the system. I believe that there is also a need to rediscover that the number of doctors by awarding concessions to employees in public health establishments will not increase and that the concession is appropriate and justified in particular where the award of the concession attracts us to the public health network of the new doctor. At the same time, it must be stressed that there are qualitative research into the effects of various reforms in the world and especially in the EU, which prove exactly the opposite of what the Minister says. They prove that privatisation and commercialisation reduce accessibility, increase health costs, reduce the quality of health services, reduce the cost-effectiveness of health care. The Ministry of Health would be required to familiarise itself with them and to prepare or order appropriate analyses and studies, not to think about changing health care. There's a lot of interesting information about the surveillance that the minister served us with. If we take away the controls carried out by the Health Insurance Office, we can find that the Ministry of Health carried out nine administrative checks in 2005 and 2006, three more are under way, one of which is with the private operator. The scope of supervision by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia is to the same extent with doctors and dentists in public institutions and concessionaries. In 2005 and 2006, the Medical Chamber carried out 90 inspections, 33 of which in the case of individuals with concessions. A positive opinion was given at 40 institutions, which is less than half. An alarmingly high proportion of identified professional irregularities and a negligible low number of controls are found. Given the number of doctors, it can rightly be concluded that most, if retired in time, will not be subject to supervision by the Medical Chamber. Especially the chapter deserves a story about waiting times. The Minister did not attach any credible waiting period data table. Without an appropriate methodology for the management of waiting periods and without adequate information on their serious comparisons are not possible. The way to introduce waiting periods for listing on waiting lists is certainly not a contribution to the actual reduction of waiting periods. It is also controversial to reduce waiting periods by 40% in a way that reduces the rights of children from dental care. Even heart surgery is expected to change the waiting period management methodology or that you no longer accept health service applications during the current year. If there are no applications, of course there are no waiting periods. Zalo is a practical solution. Thus, the Minister's statements on the reduction of waiting periods without a serious professional basis and in many areas become misleading. In particular, it would point out that in order to reduce the waiting periods where they have actually decreased, the Institute of Health has contributed mainly from the funds of us insured and not from the Government and the Minister of Budgets. In addition, it is evident from the legislative amendments that the Minister would like to ensure full control of the health treasury, which is being filled by the insured and not by the budgetary state, and by the partner-managed Department of Health. Let me conclude gradually because my colleagues in the parliamentary group will also deal with individual questions from the interpretation. In those responsible for the interpretation, the Minister of Health is acting arrogantly and in particular from the point of view of power. In most cases, without adequate evidence and arguments, the accusation of interpolation is denied. Apparently, he intends to continue to tear up non-profit public health care, health care homes, and hospitals. With the actions so far, it proves that it is not capable of dialogue, which is not good for the development of health care. It does not understand the public interest in health and not its role in protecting it. It is not concerned about the legal functioning of the award of concessions and the application of the rules on criteria for the pricing of medicinal products. It does not work enough in the case of prohibited advertising of health services, in the case of illegal operation of the First Health Assistance. All these are sufficient reasons for us to support the interpellation tabled in the Social Democrats Group. At the same time, there is still a memory of the procedure for purchasing operating tables, where the minister was then given a public hearing that prevented the purchase of more expensive tables. However, he showed that he had taken care of the nightly award of concessions just before handling the interpretation in the National Assembly. Despite the mass opposition of the public, 50,000 signatures of the movement to preserve public health and despite the opinions of the European Advocate and the European Commission on the cases of Ireland, that it is a violation of European law, that public calls are needed to distribute all public funds over a certain amount of private. Despite this, the Minister continued the non-transparent award of concessions, although neither the health services network nor the relevant rules have been established, of laws not to mention supervision. He was subject to the private interests of doctors, but he did not protect the public interest. The very interesting text from the Youth Week, 2.12.2006, is already the title itself. It would all be funny if it didn't have such fatal consequences. In one night, officials received a good 470 million tolls of public health money, and there was no guarantee that patients would receive faster and better health care as a result of this relocation. And speaking of newspaper members, let me mention the latest. More expensive private concessions for helicopter medical transport for 400 million SIT than the Slovenian police and the Slovenian Armed Forces are willing to do. We Social Democrats have written in our programme that we do not agree to a neoliberal model, which health also understands as market goods. Social Democrats understand health as a public good and cannot therefore be subject to the law of the market. Privatisation of the health system and equalization of public and private health care lead to unequal treatment of patients, which means differentiated quality according to the patient’s social situation and accessibility inequalities. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the intervention against the Minister of Health, Mr Andre Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u9	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! In opening, I should like to point out that in the New Slovenia Group, we have carefully and thoroughly examined all seven points presented by the interpellation proponents in the context of the interpretation given. We have also carefully examined the arguments put forward by Dr Bručan, Minister of Health in his reply. With regard to the answers given, we believe that the Minister, together with his colleagues, has prepared, after most of the answers that are based on reality, and has largely rejected the perceptions of the interpolation investors. Uncritical exposure to certain individual proposals or solutions that could otherwise justify a more critical debate does not, according to our assessment, fall within the scope of the proposal or the content of the interpretation. The statements in the seven points have their arguments and, on the other hand, the answers provided by the Minister with the accompanying data and, in addition, in today's debate, they reject the overwhelming number of indications and justifications in the submitted interpretation. I must admit that in our parliamentary group, after all the complications of the previous mandate, we expected that Minister Bručan will have the system laws - the Law on Patient Rights, the Law on Mental Health, the Act on Concessions and Others, which would be necessary for the regulation of this area and are also part of the government programme - to prepare and send the legislative procedure to the National Assembly faster. However, we are trying to understand this delay mainly in terms of seeking a broader consensus between the healthcare profession on the one hand and the public on the other, especially between the Minister, namely the Government, and the social partners. We are aware of what some, when discussing the discharge of the Minister of Labour, did not know or did not want to be aware and to understand that it is usually necessary to put in place a lot of efforts and this also requires a brave man. First of all, allow me to look back in time from two good years ago. What was the situation at the time and, above all, what the current Minister, Dr. Bručan, had drawn up on his own at the time of his term of office. He drew attention to the absence of a comprehensive health policy that had already led to a threat to the destabilisation of the financial system of health care. This has created a growing number or growing dissatisfaction of users of health services, including the mistrust of health care providers themselves, and in the final stage it has been unjustifiable and has thus diminished the reputation of health workers; and the consequences of this situation are still to be felt today. In order to limit the functioning of the system itself, in particular with regard to the work of concessionaires, a number of opportunities and the privileges of individuals to deal with individual services have arisen in the previous mandate. Some responsibilities have not been defined, but responsibilities have not been defined for the patient throughout the treatment process - since entry into the system and later in the treatment process itself. The truths of love are still not defined in the complete document. However, changes have been made with regard to incentives at other levels, not only for the work of doctors, but also for incentives for the work of nurses and other healthcare professionals in view of their contribution to achieving greater efficiency and quality. In practice, we are faced with the fact that a lot of work over full-time, especially for younger health workers, is not a payoff, but an opportunity to use hours, which is almost impossible in practice because of the busy schedule. In addition, before 2004, the fact that almost all hospitals were in losses was also alarming. This situation has already improved significantly in 2006. This shows that the approach to hospital management is integrated both in the professional and in the business-medical work. The costs of staff, medicines and other costs must be monitored and any deviation must be detected in due time by directors and properly and in good time. During the ministry of Dr. Bručana, his activities were largely based on the unified common, strategic conclusions and starting points of the coalition that social values such as solidarity, social justice and universal access to rights must be strengthened and developed in Slovenia. At the same time, however, bearing in mind and aware that protecting health and a healthy way of working and a healthy way of life is also the fundamental duty of each individual, group of people, family, employers and not just the country. Some well-designed projects to implement the health care strategy and the content of the reform processes have stopped halfway with the social partners, and some have managed to implement the ministry. We adopted compensatory schemes to prevent a selective increase in premiums, the scheme introduced the amendment of the Health and Insurance Act, which was adopted in the National Assembly last July. The next amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act is still in coordination with the Economic and Social Council, despite the desire for priority treatment of socially weak insurers. Interpellation writers report that it is a wild privatisation, a decommissioning of public, basic health care for the uncontrolled and illegal distribution of concessions, a non-acceptance of the public health service network and so on. Writers use strong words, words with a negative accent that have been in particular areas, and in particular in the economy known mainly from their term of office. However, they keep their eyes closed that in the past, in 1993, when legislation has already been adopted which provides a basis for a mixed health system, so that other natural and legal persons can perform public service under the same conditions on the basis of a concession. The public service concession for basic health activities shall be awarded by a decision to the municipal administrative authority responsible for health, subject to the conditions laid down. In doing so, the concessionaire shall have the same rights, duties and responsibilities as the public service. The procedure may thus be initiated on the basis of a doctor’s or invitation to tender by the congregation in cases where the medical service is not occupied. However, the normal granting of concessions allows greater accessibility to the service, and often more cost-effectiveness. Writers of the interpolation must take on board the fact that the administration has often been uncontrollable and amassed in past mandates. This now means that many administrative workers fall on a unit, on a doctor who generates income, somewhere rational, and elsewhere irrationally organized. And this is what doctors state as one of the key reasons for leaving the public health institution and performing a private office. Also because they estimate that some of the money they spend could be used for education, for equipment, which would be useful to patients. It is, however, forgotten that it is a matter of contract to determine the scope of preventive programmes, emergency and on-call services; it is a matter of supervision that the concessionaire also implements the provisions of the contract. In fact, we should also consider whether the current system of supervision of healthcare providers, which is divided into administrative, financial, professional supervision, is most appropriate. This by its very nature cannot deal with controlled in an integrated way. In particular, competent supervisors should be appointed for supervisors, persons enjoying professional reputation in the healthcare sector. As regards the claim that profit is the main or only motive of concessionaires, it is certainly quite realistic, since every time they meet a public and private interest, they have their own expectations. That is why we are adopting appropriate legislation, and above all, concession contracts are being concluded, i.e. the rules of the game for concessionaires in order to protect the public interest as much as possible. That our system is quite satisfactory also shows research on the quality of health systems, which has already been mentioned today. As has already been said in the introduction, we also expected faster lawmaking in our parliamentary group. The Law on Patients' Rights was in the spring of public hearing, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is still in coordination with the Economic Social Council. In autumn, he also received public hearings on the Long-Term Care and Insurance Act, followed by the Mental Health Act, which was in public debate in May, and I would also like to welcome the announced amendments to the Tobacco Product Restriction Act, since the existing law can be a mockery of both non-smokers and smokers. At this point in our group, we are still trying to understand the ministers' response that the key reason for further delays is mainly the integration of the professional and lay-off public, and we also call on our Group of Members to be unified on key issues. It is difficult to understand that the Law on Mental Health has been being prepared for 13 years. With regard to the expectation of waiting periods, there is certainly one thing that will be settled when we or patients themselves feel that our treatment is ongoing, that we do not have to wait for specialist examinations or interventions. However, the numbers provided by the Minister in his reply show that he has been quite successful in achieving the reduction of waiting lines, so that he has further earmarked the money and, of course, the waiting species need to be reduced in particular on key health programmes. With regard to the exposure to the price of medicinal products, it is essential to highlight in particular the fact that the pharmaceutical industry has been on the market and is still taking place in a very global manner, so it is essential that, on the one hand, individual countries, the competent authorities of each country, and even more important that the competent authorities of each country participate in the pricing process, i.e. ours. It is also necessary to negotiate successfully in particular with regard to the purchase of new medicinal products, which, by the way promised and during the drug testing phase, will be effective only over the years. In this regard, the amendments adopted by the Medicinal Products Act, adopted in early 2006, which also addresses the prices of medicines that go under the burden of public funds, also impose high penalties for non-compliance with the rules on prices. We therefore expect that these new changes, due to the laws and regulations adopted, will lead and affect the long-term reduction in the use of public funds for medicinal products during this mandate. Regarding the results of the drug testing, the information authority replied by a decision suggesting that all clinical centre drug trials were conducted with the prior consent of the patients and were not carried out to the detriment of the institution. However, I believe that the writer of the interpolation is in pain that after long-term agony, the Minister has been able to purchase the operating tables, which began in the previous term, and this has also been the case for a linear oncology accelerator. Let me also turn to the interpolation writers, who today said that their interpolation was not political. We should think of the facts that are in our eyes. How could you build so many beautiful administrative buildings during your term, but it was not possible to build or complete the Paediatric Clinic and additional facilities in Oncology, and many other departments that would require doctors and other health personnel for a human being and their loved ones for their work. In the New Slovenia Group, we have decided that we will not vote in favour of the discharge of Minister Bručan, but we expect his responsibility, after all the exposure today, to be even greater in the course of his ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Nice greetings on my part to the Minister, both the Secretary of State, the co-workers of the Minister, colleagues and fellow Members, as well as visitors and visitors to the Tribunal! We, however, continue to present the views of the groups of Members and to invite Mr Prevac, on behalf of the SLS, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. Surely we can all agree that the health system in each country is one of the most important systems and that health is one of the main values of every human being and that caring for the health of the population is the primary task of each country. Of course, health concerns on the other hand are the rights of every citizen. In doing so, we must never forget that it is the responsibility of each individual to care for and maintain his or her health. In the Slovenian People's Party, we devote a large part of the programme to health. It is very important for us to ensure that all citizens have access to quality health services, regardless of where they live and what social status they have. That is why we are always very critical of the health system, especially with regard to the conditions and accessibility of health services in remote areas, whose inhabitants do not only lack the same opportunities and regulated health stations, pharmacies, but their accessibility is often limited by poor roads and unregulated public transport. All too often, quality and accessibility depend on the ingenuity of individual congregations. However, we believe that, at least in the case of first aid and emergency interventions, all citizens should have equal opportunities and equal accessibility, because only in many cases can adequate and timely assistance be provided, especially when it comes to life-saving. Of course, it is too much to say that all responsibility for the health situation in our country lies only with the current competent minister, as we are aware that such an important system is being built for years and decades and that it requires an agreement in society and stable finances. Even the opposite. Over the past two years, the current Government has provided additional resources to address apparent imbalances in supply between individual municipalities, areas and specialities. However, it is also known that every escaped system always defends change, even if these are positive. Some of the results in this area are, however, already visible and are the result of the ministry of mags. Mr. Andre Brucan. It is certainly about increasing the scope of the programme at primary level by about 39 new teams in 2005 and 2006, such as general outpatient activities, women's dispensary, orthodontism, physiotherapy, psychiatry, and secondary specialist levels, where the number of teams required increased by 14%. We all agree in the Minister's reply that some waiting types have been reduced in this way. In the parliamentary group, we have examined the findings of the interviewers on the work of the Minister of Mags. Bručana and also the Minister's answers. In particular, we have examined the answers to the allegations of illegality in individual procedures and have found that in many cases it is not true to the Minister and also to mislead him. In all public systems, in addition to clearly defined rules and tasks, it is very important to monitor the use of public funds and the delivery of public services even more so as this is a matter of public health and life. When reviewing the work of the Minister, it is necessary to take into account the extent to which his powers extend. Only the administrative supervision of the operators is carried out by the Ministry, while the finances are supervised by the Department of Health Insurance and the professional supervision is carried out by the relevant chamber, and it is clear that the supervision of the self-employed is usually greater than that of the public doctors. The majority of the perceptions of the interpellation candidates relate to changes resulting from decisions under the 1992 amended Health Act, which also introduced private work in health care and identified that health activities may be carried out by domestic and foreign legal and natural persons if they fulfil the prescribed conditions under the law. According to the current health legislation adopted in 1992, we have a so-called mixed health system in Slovenia. In the area of fundraising, voluntary and additional health insurance is also required; in the case of property, private hospitals and health care institutions are also involved; in the case of the provision of health services, private operators are also involved with public servants and concessionaires in the public health network. With regard to private self-employed general doctors, we can claim that we have a mixed system in Slovenia, given the 26% share of these countries compared to the European countries where there are mainly two concepts, one concept is with an emphasis on the proportion of private individuals, where this proportion is 60 to 100%, in countries such as Austria, Germany, France, Belgium, Italy, Ireland, Switzerland and Luxembourg, and the other with a low share of private individuals, which is below 12%, such as the state of Finland, Sweden, Spain and Portugal. The Minister rejected the absence of tenders on the grounds that the condition of the invitation to tender was met and needed for the allocation of funds or payments to health insurance companies. Interpellators deceive when they claim that granting concessions is a privatisation. The Minister also clearly and justifiably replied in his extensive explanations to the individual findings that the privatisation in health is by no means taking place, as even under the Public Finance Act it is not allowed. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware that the award of concessions is a sensitive topic and that it can only go in terms of upgrading the health system and eliminating all its weaknesses. We agree with the Minister that, when a doctor is freely chosen, especially in rural rural areas, rural concessionaires can be much more effective in terms of accessibility. It also seems important to us that, according to the Health Insurance Office, all doctors, public and private, exceed the prevention programme and the exceedance is more pronounced among concessionaires. It is certain that prevention is not only necessary to maintain health, but also due to the less appropriate use of health services. Another important set of perceptions concerns the slow implementation of reforms and the failure to comply with the healthcare plan. At the time of the new Government, 88 health regulations had already been adopted and 6 drafts of large-scale substantive laws had already been prepared. As we pointed out at the beginning of this debate, it is important for us to improve and upgrade the health system and it is therefore necessary to upgrade, modify and improve with the participation of the professional and lay public. Of course, it is also essential to take into account the opinions of users, patients and local communities. This is precisely what the Minister points out as an important reason for the additional delay in the preparation of the necessary legislative changes. With regard to the allegations of non-acceptance of the healthcare plan, however, the Minister considers that the delay is at the expense of the previous governments, since the plan should have been adopted in 1992 and adopted only in 2000 for the period until 2004. 46 recognised experts participated in the preparation of the new plan by 2013, which is, of course, very positive for us. However, the Minister proposed the necessary changes in the field of healthcare and insurance to the public debate as early as May 2005. The compensatory schemes were adopted unanimously in the July 2005 National Assembly as necessary after a number of negotiations. Unjustifiables also seem to us that the Minister is restricting the autonomy of the health insurance company. The current Government and the competent ministry complement the exercise of the business autonomy of the management of the Health Insurance Office with proposals for legislative changes. It should be noted that the Minister is not competent and therefore cannot be responsible for non-implementing insurance laws because the Insurance Authority is in charge of their supervision under the Insurance Act. In short, we cannot yet be fully satisfied with the health system in the Group of Members. It also seems to us that waiting periods are still too long. More should also be done on the accessibility and quality of health services. We are aware, however, that there are many objective reasons for such a situation, but for which we cannot blame only the current minister. We are confident that many solutions will be put forward within the mandate of this Government to improve the situation in this area. In the parliamentary group, we have examined the evidence of the Minister's interpretation and responses, particularly in the points relating to the non-implementation of legislation or evidence of infringement, and we are convinced that the Minister is operating on the basis of the rules governing the jurisdiction of the director, and has, in our opinion, proved that he is not prejudiced by the scope of the rules and competences that do not apply to him and to which some of the findings also apply. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the proposed decision to dismiss the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! A little earlier, I was involved in an observation, or perhaps criticism, why Members and Members of the Slovenian National Party were not present in the voting room or in our plenary assembly when the interpretation was presented. The answer to this is very clear - because of the ignorance of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which has written this interpretation itself, regardless of the question of that area of life in our society, which, according to our assessment, takes over the whole society. And it is as sad as the ignorance of the Liberal Democracy that today three Members or two Members and one Member of Parliament are sitting on the side of the motions in a given situation. By this, I believe, the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, expresses its attitude or view as to how valuable the interpretations were at this week or at this time. We will support the National Party in spite of all the interpretation, but for other reasons than in my opinion, the simplified interpretations are sent to the National Assembly by Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. But let me take a different look from this place. Not long ago, I was involved in either the briefings, with one fact of a purely ordinary citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who actually told me very simply. He went to the dentist and asked him when it was his turn. The answer was, "A year or two." When the same person asked the same dentist when it came to paying for this service, the answer from the dentist was, "Right away." I want to say that in our country, under the auspices of Mr Bručan, we have created double criteria, criteria for rich citizens and criteria for all those who cannot afford expensive health services. And who today within our own country, the Republic of Slovenia, will be eligible to defend Mr Bručan. Personally or better, in the context of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we believe that today you will be defending the Minister of Health of all of you, who are trying to make health a good thing in the capital market. All those who respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or advocate for health as a good that should be present within the framework of the rights of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should vote in confidence or replace the person who runs this health policy in our country, that is, Mr Bručan. And if I started the case earlier and ended with the question of double criteria, let me point out from this place, at least according to our assessment, another very important fact or criteria. That's the question of moving. Anyone in this country will claim that no movement has been made in the last two years will, of course, lie. We must be aware that under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, both for 2005 and 2007, the National Assembly has earmarked financial resources for the functioning of this Ministry. I would like to point out that some movement, of course, must be from this title. But the question is, how far does this move go? Is this move in line with the increased funds? Is this shift in quality services and accessibility for all in line with plans and faith in the functioning of the country? I don't think so. Nevertheless, allow me once again to expose my anger or anger, however you wish, over the functioning of the Liberal Democracy, which is trying, and I can say with certainty that, mentioned or today, this interpretation can be applied exclusively through the acquisition of so-called political points, which are expressed through 7 so-called main readings, which are not the main ones and which would be, above all, a little less selfish part of the Liberal Democracy, can be presented in 14 points; in 14 points that would cover the whole misery and patheticness of Mr Bručan's operation. But last but not least, who am I to interfere with the politics of Liberal Democracy? I never did, and I never will. However, I and the Members of the Slovenian National Party have been called on to take care of the quality and accessibility of health to the extent possible. And because interpellation does not follow all the criticism of the lack of quality of health, so of course we are substantively over it, I am telling you Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy, very deeply disappointed. In its content, and not least in the past in the framework of the National Assembly, there have been many words about the so-called private-public interest. In his explanation, the Minister stressed several times the entry of private-public partnerships within the health system of the Republic of Slovenia. I think a month ago, a stem hospital was exposed as one of those sample cases of how we're going to put capital goods on the market, that is, money. According to our assessment, the answer here is very simple. Talking about health and sharing it in the so-called public or private interest is irrelevant. According to our assessment and in connection with this, it is important to be aware of which ministers work in the interests of capital and which ministers or ministers should work in the interest of so-called beneficiaries. And Minister Bručan has completely ignored this part of his activity or fallen on the full line. The fact is that it is of private interest, according to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we should not be discussing, as part of the work of today's Interpeeled Minister. To all of us, in particular to the Minister and the Government as a whole, the motto should be the so-called public interest. In the public interest, countries are healthy citizens, there is access to health, but the fact is that things have been different for the last two years. Therefore, at least in the National Party, we blame the Minister in question. We also blamed him for the month of January, that is, the month that this National Assembly, if I recall correctly, held two extraordinary meetings on the basis of the so-called orientation or kindness of Minister Bučan to individual insurance institutions in our country. For the first time, at one very declaratory level, it proved that it did not lead the Minister and the Minister's team's entire health, but that it was led by the so-called private or rather expressed capital interest of individual capital companies dealing both with insurance and health. For a rounded picture of the Slovenian National Party's position, allow me to point out. Days ago we discussed the so-called interpretation or non-trust of the Prime Minister himself to the work of the Lord, then Minister Drobnic. The minister gave it up himself or the Prime Minister of the Government gave it up himself. He didn't give the chance to talk, sell, debate, whatever you want, about his inadequacy. Days ago, we had a debate in this National Assembly on the functioning of Minister Simoniti. And today we have a debate on the operation or rather Mr Bručan's lack of action. According to our assessment, this sends one message "message" any way you want, and this is a message that the President of the Government is doing badly, that the President of the Government is not interested in any particular area. Let this lack of interest come from his education at the very least from his work so far, but the fact is that the Minister of Government does not control but, above all, does not coordinate any more part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. And I sincerely hope that this message reaches him. I know today that interpolation will not be effective or will not achieve its comprehensive purpose, i.e. replacing the minister before us. However, I sincerely hope that the message we will try to give to the Members will reach the President of the Government and that the President of the Government will see that his view or rather his ignorance of this part of the Government, health, needs to change. The Prime Minister of the Government should be the one who would basically direct the work of the Minister, who is being intertwined today. If we do not achieve this, then we will not achieve anything except what was the ultimate goal for the Liberal Democracy Group, so that the interpretation against Mr Bručan would be in three, four newspapers on the front page and similar things. But this must not be the goal that all of us are pursuing; the objective should be elsewhere, that is to say that the current policy within this Minister is wrong, that we must not interfere with the so-called private and public interest in the pursuit of capital effects, but that, in the context of health in our country, it should only prevail and always prevail over the so-called public interest and accessibility to health as the body cited by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And when I'm talking about accessibility. I don't think it's been that long since my fellow Member Lucky Friend asked a question - I can tell you, on 23.2. - Minister of Health of the so-called waiting species. Minister Bručan has been showing us the picture in those areas where, of course, the waiting line has decreased, to which we have received a reply from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, lastly, the reply from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. In fact, we see in this reply that the image is different from that shown by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or as shown by the Minister, who is supposed to be "on the shooting" today. The fact is that in many areas there has been no change in the waiting period, even more; if we look at individual indexation, we see that this has turned into a negative favour. And last but not least, given that I am not a person personally who builds my beliefs only on statistics, I can assure you that, days ago in this House of the National Assembly - but it is true that not by Members or Members - have encountered one criticism, of course, criticism has flown on every policy, people still believe that Members are guilty of all things, but the fact is that this man has simply told me and I believe that it is a lot to learn from this story that a simple dermatological review is ordered only next, so 2007 and September. Today we have a minister, who in the media, in the Reflections on Radiotelevision of Slovenia - and I did not point out this medium without meaning all of us know where this medium is trying to support every, every lie of the government's representative - speaks and says that the waiting types are shrinking. Who, of course, or who doesn't believe my words, should look at the answer to the question referred by our fellow Member. In this answer, we also have a table, but only for those who love statistics, whether it's a dead letter on paper or whatever, but we can see that the indexation of the extension of waiting periods goes beyond 200%. Thus, for individual medical interventions, the waiting period is extended once more than it was before Mr Bručan's performance. But of course, it is difficult to tell people that health is in the hands of only one person in our country and that this person is extremely capital-oriented. That's it, Mr. Bručan. From this title, it would be the duty of each Member, of all Members and Members who are present today or who will be present in the framework of the votes at the meeting of the National Assembly to prevent Mr Bručan from working in the field of health in the future. Not only does he withdraw from the Minister’s post, but he gets so much criticism that he simply sees that he is no longer able to see the constitutional category, that is, that health must be accessible to everyone, to every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. The table I spoke about earlier, i.e. in the statistical display of waiting types, can be found on the third page of that reply by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. From this place, and especially given that I have been asked by my fellow Members to give them time for further discussion and possible answers to Minister Bručan's replies, I can at least say two more with certainty in this work. Minister Bručan is one of those ministers who has made the most clear moves in this mandate, and is still leaning, unfortunately, towards capital orientation. This could have been clear to any of us in January or February when the act was adopted or amended and all those acts which depend on the Insurance Act, when it did not allow insurance institutions to be set up at the same level, i.e. at the level of so-called shares companies. But of course, he left one of these companies in a criterion that puts them in an unequal position or a subordinate position, regardless of having more than a million members. I don't know how much harder you put on the occasion of the National Assembly, but the matter took place in May and the sixth month, when Minister Bručan or better said when Minister Bručan did not answer the question raised by his fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorec, and myself personally, whether he is willing to resign, in so far as he is wrong, and if not all the acts and steps are taken to implement the Insurance Act. Minister Bručan kept his answer to himself and smiled. As likely as you are now. At least when I was watching direct television, I saw him smile at the speeches or at all the criticisms addressed to him. And from this point of view, allow me to conclude that what I think is most important. We all know that today's interpolation is not going to work. However, I believe that the message of the contents of today's debate would have already been received by the President of the Government. Why is this so important? Because I fear that the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, has not received a message in the context of the interpretation or withdrawal of Minister Drobnič, that the said Ministry will continue to work in contravention of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that the Minister or President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, did not understand the communication when we discussed the interpretation against Mr Simoniti, and I fear that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, will not understand the message that we are trying to convey to the professional and lay public during today's meeting. Things need to be changed, changed at the ministry mentioned or today. Health shall not be subject to capital goods. And as long as this does not become clear to Minister Bručan, I can guarantee, with certainty, at least by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, that: Mr Bručan, you will also have enemies in the Slovenian National Party's Members with your policy in the future. We're going to support the interpellation at the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Mag. A piano on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge, Secretary of State, Honourable Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! If we gathered here today because tomorrow I would follow or follow the breakdown of the health system in our country, then I would be very disappointed to speak now in front of a half-empty hall. That's the first thing I want to find out. We are not gathered here just to talk about interpellation against the Minister of Health, but also to take advantage of this input of interpretation to hear the arguments of both sides, at the same time to discuss the sensitive work and life of our people, our country, such as this health. So I'm a little disappointed that when we read the interpellation table, we left, and we're not really interested. I expected a little more from this, because we are in our parliamentary group about the answer, or to support the intervention against the Minister of Health of Mags. Andrey Bručan or not, in particular, was based on the fact that health and health care is primarily a public good that is provided to everyone, regardless of the health, social and economic situation or the ability of an individual who is guaranteed to everyone. Interpellators report to the minister seven major sins, which are intended to undermine the basics of the health system in Slovenia and thus its place. The first among them is the discovery of wild and unplanned privatisation, which causes the breakdown of health homes. The fact is that the Minister has been working for two years now, since he has been a minister, there has been reports of an uncontrolled and illegal award of primary health concessions. The oil was fired by the minister with a recent so-called night concession award, and when I asked what it meant, I came to the conclusion that it was an official error that led to the signing of these concessions during that period, nothing else, mysterious, 10 doctors. So the question is: Should health care be commercialized? The response of our Group of Members is unequivocal. We must by no means allow this to happen; public interest must be protected. It is essential that the country protect the weakest, including patients. Otherwise, in the final stage, patients do not care where they receive health care, but their accessibility and quality are important. The question is: Will concessionaires provide patients with equal accessibility and quality of services? Today's concessions are probably tempting. Many choose to go to private parties for profits that they can generate with a seemingly less-paid salary by sending financially more demanding patients to specialists, with fewer laboratory investigations of which the payer is a private person. At least that's how we try to tell concessionaires, but that's not always the case, because doctors and health workers who want to do that don't have much to do, among all those who do anything, there are also those who don't respect it. Therefore, the main question is not whether we will have more or less private health activities, but how this will be legally defined and demarcated by public health activities and how the objectives will be achieved after better health and health care for the population. In the Group of Members, it is estimated that in this regard, the only reasonable statement is that, prior to the onset of the award of concessions, it did not provide for appropriate legislation which would actually delimit public and private work and which would allow for an equal situation for public institutions and private operators to carry out their activities. In particular, it is a matter of awarding concessions without established standards, without a network of operators produced and without the necessary supervision of the entire public and private system. Such an arrangement, as it is now, is of the opinion of our Members or allows us to reduce the rights of patients. It is therefore necessary to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to certain laws, including those for which the Minister of Health is responsible. When deciding whether to support the discharge of the Minister of Health, in our Group of Members, we have tried to answer the question whether the exchange would bring about a new, better and fairer health system. We have estimated that this time interpolation means more of a move that is supposed to have political effects in order to discredit someone; to discredit a particular person, but not primarily to improve the entire health system in Slovenia. And I started with that when I said that I was disappointed, that there were so few Members in the Chamber, and that I expected more listening and that I would expect more debate, more arguments and more debates. We stress that in the health field there are so many shortcomings and so many problems that not only affect these small countries, but also cover many and countless other countries, much richer than our country. Therefore, I say and stress that we cannot solve all the problems that have accumulated over a two-year period, but that we may need an entire mandate or perhaps an entire next term. No one would be envious of the position of Minister of Health. The views of our Members on the perceptions have been shared, but although the work of the Minister of Health in some cases has not been very satisfactory, we will not generally support this interpretation. At the same time, it is worth noting that the correct assessment will only be possible on the basis of the very course of the debate, the arguments on both sides. I believe that the debate will be an appropriate place to break down the various positions that will lead to something better tomorrow, which will also be taken into account by the Minister and will also comfort the signatories, almost 45 000 signatories who are afraid that our public health system will fall apart. Let us therefore hope and expect that this interpolation will speed up the regulation of all the actions made. At the same time, we expect the Minister to address these shortcomings, which I have also mentioned, at an accelerated pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr Jazbec, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering interpolation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Health, Mag. Andre Bručan, filed by the LDS during the local elections. This period was quite fruitful by writing interpellations. During this time just before the local elections, we were given our first interpretation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have examined with great attention the interpolation and impressions put forward in it. We have also examined with great attention the contents of the Minister of Health's responses to the interpretations given. After examining both texts, we estimate that the intervention put into the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health is unjustified. That the interpretation is unjustifiable, the following points are made. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or the former Minister of Health, Dr Dušan Keber, submitted it during the local elections and thus virtually masked the fragmentation of the LDS, which during this period appeared to have divided into four different groups. The so-called Jankovic List, Drnovškov movement, LDS Club and Kacin faction. That's why this interpolation only reminds us of the LDS fight with itself. Proposers of the interpretation of the charge against the Minister of Health of Magi. Bruciens base their statements on incomplete and orderly data and unrealistic and misleading claims. At the same time, I would like to point out on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that it seems very unethical to us from the applicants, in particular, that, in the case of citizens and citizens, they create unnecessary and unjustifiable concerns about the situation in Slovenian health. At this point, it is important to stress that we can praise Slovenia with a high level of health care, a high level of professionalism, and that we are ranked first among the new members of the European Union and in the first half among all the 25 members of the European Union. In this way, let me mention a study on the quality of the health system, which is among the 25 members of the European Union and Slovenia has, in a joint result, landed in 12th place in front of Great Britain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland, and is, as already mentioned, the first of the new members of the European Union. After the efficiency of the funds used, Slovenia has overtaken all members of the European Union, which is a remarkable achievement. The report was made on the basis of 2005 data. At the same time, it should be noted that Slovenia has become an ardent fifth place after the level of treatment of patients, 7th place after the outcomes of treatment and 8th place after the exercise of patients' rights. We fully support the work of the Minister of Health in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. If we take a closer look at the content of the interpolation, we cannot go beyond the fact that in it, you are reading to the current minister what you have not been able to do in the 12 years of your rule. Thus, when comparing the current situation with that of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Keber, we can find that the interpretation is written in the same way as it should have been written a few years ago. Interpellation on 46 pages contains 7 readings. The most prominent observation is in the field of health concessions. The above statement, with reference to wild privatisation, is totally unfounded and unjustifiable. Health concessions are public health care, which can also be provided by private individuals. Doctors with concessions continue to remain in the public sector, stressing that health insurance pays. This increases the availability of health services for patients, not social differentiation. By granting concessions, the Ministry of Health has expanded the public health service network, increased access to services and consequently reduced some waiting periods. Concessions that are evident to the Minister of Health do not mean a breakdown of the public system, concessionaires, as has already been said, operate in the public health system as a public health care system. The award of concessions shall take into account the provisions of the applicable legislation in the field of the implementation of health activities - the Health Activity Act. In doing so, it should be pointed out that concessions under primary health care, which are evident to the Minister, are awarded to the municipalities or on their behalf to the mayors. Concessions at the primary level are awarded by municipalities, the Ministry of Health gives only consent, which means that the Ministry agrees to a transitional transition to a concessional mode of work, at the primary level, which requires a preliminary decision by the municipality. It is also clear that the absence of duties in the co-financing of the emergency service is attributable to the fact that contracts with concessionaires contain only that they are obliged to carry out the on-call. In practice, however, the director of the healthcare home and the mayor of the municipality are responsible for the implementation. It should be noted that the on-call service is specifically financed outside primary health care and especially on-call and emergency services. Concessions for the provision of public service at secondary level shall be awarded by a decision of the Ministry of Health. In doing so, the Ministry of Health must obtain opinions from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the competent chamber or professional association. At the beginning of 2005, there were 100 applications at the Ministry of Health. In 2005, the Ministry of Health addressed the roles of doctors, dentists, nurses at the primary level who applied for concession in the municipality and gave their consent insofar as all the opinions collected were positive, the opinion of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the opinion of the competent chamber. At the secondary level, the Ministry awarded 46 concessions to new specialists who were employed in hospitals - 17, health care homes - 18 or participated outside the public health service network - 11, but they were not all able to conclude contracts with the health insurance company. In 2005, the health insurance company concluded 99 new contracts with new private operators, 24 at the specialist level, 39 in the field of dental care, 23 in the field of general medicine and 13 in the field of health care. In 2005, the overall agreement also provided for additional funding to extend programmes in certain areas to expand the secondary health sector network of 410 million tolls per year for new concessions or a larger volume of programmes. In 2006 they issued 111 consents to grant concessions at the primary level to 80 doctors. At the secondary level, 14 concessions were granted. The Ministry of Health has always guided the procedures for awarding concessions in accordance with existing legislation and has always worked with the management of public institutions. The Ministry of Health has thus expanded the public health service network, increased access to services and reduced some waiting periods. The Ministry therefore intends to extend concessions through a new law on public service concessions in health activities. The transparent award of concessions with improved regulation will make the healthcare system more effective and improve its quality. Thus, it is clear that all who receive the concession perform and continue to operate in the public health network paid by the health insurance company, so that no changes are made to patients and patients in terms of additional payment. In this regard, it is worth noting the article in Dnevnik 19.10.2006 entitled Interpellation introduces unrest in which also the President of the Medical Chamber of Prof. Pegan rejects the evidence of wild privatisation and poorly organised health care. The President of the Medical Chamber on concessions also stresses that it is a matter of self-employment, self-reliance with resources and better organisation of work. Among other things, it speaks of the poor work of the former minister that Dr. Zoran Arnež, the expert director at the Clinical Centre, warned years ago that Dr. Keber, as a minister, had spent almost EUR 4 million on the health system, of which there were no concrete results in the hospital. It follows from all of this that LDS and Jelko Kacin want to consolidate their client through interpeelation, but it only causes anxiety between doctors and patients. Mrs Nevenka Lekša is also one of the biggest critics of public health, and she certainly does not deserve to be called an independent expert because it is publicly known that Mrs Lekša is a member of the Council of the Women's Forum of Social Democrats. What a body the Council of the Women's Forum of Social Democrats is, can be found on the websites of the Party of Social Democrats. It is an autonomous political interest association which, at the time of the two congresses, which is the largest body of that forum, independently determines its policy, participates equally in the design of the party's policy. Thus, in this work, we cannot say that Mrs Lekše can represent an independent and non-political civil society, but it must be stressed that Mrs Lekše does not invite representatives of the Ministry of Health and other institutions at her round tables to answer a number of questions about the award of concessions. This is a matter of biased and unethical incitement to public health. Among other things, as independent experts in the Committee of Movement for the Conservation of Public Health, the following names can be found: In addition to Nevenke Lekše, a member of the SD Women's Forum, a member of the SD Presidency, a member of the Council of the Fourth Community, a president of the Health and Social Welfare Union, a candidate for a member of the State Council, the following names can be found: Dr. Andreja Černak Meglič, a member of the 2000 European Elections Board of the United List of Social Democrats in the National Elections; and this year she has run for City Council in Ljubljana; Vinko Gobeck, a member of the General Council of the LDS and DeSUS for the 2004 European Elections, she has run for the fourth place; she is also the President of the Association of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia; Dr. Hribar, a member of the Programme Council of the RTV on the proposal of the Forum 21 and a founding Council of the founding Member of the European Election of the European Elections. It is therefore necessary to stress once again that it is not really a matter of privatising health care, but of introducing the possibility of private work of doctors and health workers into the public health network. Such concessions shall be granted exclusively by the municipalities, and the Minister shall only play a role in the issue of an opinion, which shall be non-binding to the awardor. However, the Minister certainly does not have a negative attitude towards private work in health care. If this contributes to greater accessibility to health services and higher quality, a survey among users of health services also speaks. The survey was produced by the Toš Institute, which in 66% assesses the services of a private doctor for the better, 32% feel no difference and only 2% evaluates them for the worse. All seven evidences cited by the motioners in the interpretation relate to the legacy of the former rule of the Liberal Democracy, problems which have not been solved by them themselves. Obviously operating tables, long waiting periods, unregulated concession activity, unregulated laboratory activity, Mutual and similar. With regard to the perception of non-admission of relevant legislation and national plan and health strategy, it is necessary to highlight the following. All laws related to Slovenia's entry into the EU were adopted and should have been adopted in the previous term. Nine laws and a series of regulations have already been adopted in this mandate and six substantively demanding laws are in preparation. In the public debate, there is also the Patients' Rights Act, which the Ministry will place in the legislative process for a comprehensive solution. The problem with the acquisition of operating tables is solved. In addressing this problem, which has already been drawn from the previous mandate of Minister Kebra, it is also necessary to recognise the complexity of public procurement legislation, which has, as a consequence, enabled a worrying situation in this very pressing problem. The operating tables are already on their way, and some hospitals are already installed. As regards the perception of clienteleism in the procurement of medical equipment and the uncontrolled testing of medicinal products, it is necessary to stress the following: all purchases took place through public calls and the decisions of the State Audit Commission. The testing of medicinal products is carried out under close professional supervision and in accordance with legislation, as has already been found in the multi-annual debate of the National Assembly on the Health Committee. With regard to the long-term outlook, it is necessary to emphasise the following: the Minister of Health, at the time of taking over the Ministry, also distributed 77342 waiting ones, with the number already reduced to 50261 in 2005. So it's 35%. Thus, waiting periods have been reduced everywhere in 2005, except in some cases. One of the findings is the area of the Mutual Insurance Company. Here it should be noted that, at the proposal of the Ministry of Health in the National Assembly, new amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act have been adopted. This is the area of compensatory schemes, ensuring the social security of the older population. The mutual mutual insurance company planned a status transformation from the mutual insurance company to the shareholding company, so at the beginning of this year in the National Assembly we adopted an authentic interpretation of the Insurance Act, with a view to protecting the interests of public-interest insurers, so that the possible transformation process would be carried out in a verifiable and transparent manner. Here we have protected the interests of the insurers, and it must also be pointed out that there is no responsibility of the Minister of Health to make the procedures and operations of the Mutual, which under the applicable legislation is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. As regards First Health Assistance, it should also be noted that the Insurance Supervisory Agency is responsible for this area. With regard to the apparent irregular state and ineffective control in the field of cytopathology, the following should be mentioned. At the beginning of 2005, we made a request to convene an urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Health Assembly in order to discuss the state of cytopathology and to identify the situation in this area at that time. In December 2004, the Ministry of Health decided to verify that the laboratory treatment of cervical swabs was carried out in accordance with the rules governing that area. That debate also took place at the beginning of this year. On the basis of the decision taken at the meeting of the Health Committee on 27.1.2006, the Ministry of Health provided information on the regulation of the field of laboratory screening of cervical swabs and the provision of health care in the field of early detection of precancerous changes to the cervix. In relation to this issue, the Ministry of Health has taken action to determine the conditions for the work of the laboratory by predicting a visit of the laboratory in the laboratory of the company SIZE d.o.o. The report shows that the laboratory of SIZE d.o.o. In order to re-examine compliance with the conditions, the laboratory shall not carry out its laboratory examination of the swabs of the cervix at the address at which the said examination was to be carried out. The Ministry of Health also informed the market inspectorate about this. The market inspectorate carried out a tour of the company at other premises at a new address on 17.5.2006, issued a decision prohibiting the operation of the bristling business until the company SIZE d.o.o. does not obtain a permit from the Ministry. The Ministry or the expert commission is a tour of the laboratory of SIZE d.o.o. on the proposal for an application from SIZE dated 18.9.2006 completed on 10.10.2006. At the same time, the Ministry of Health has prepared amendments to the existing regulations governing early detection of pre-cancer changes in the cervix, particularly with regard to the implementation of the State programme for early detection of pre-cancer changes to the cervix. The proposed amendments, which are in professional coordination, will set out the conditions to be met by all health service providers, i.e. the laboratories involved in the state programme for early detection of cervical cancer. In accordance with the requirement to provide, improve and improve the quality of services in the field of cytopathological research, permission was granted to carry out this activity to the Medical Institute of the University of Ljubljana, while the laboratory of the Medical Home Ljubljana ceased to operate. In addition, a screening school was launched at the Oncology Institute during the world leadership of highly recognised experts for early detection of precancer changes in the cervix. On the basis of the above, the action of the Minister of Health in the field of cytopathology is apparent. Thus, the Minister of Health has contributed to a substantial improvement in the situation with the following solutions. The laboratories are run by skilled specialists. It describes and enables education to specialise in anatomic pathology and cytopathology. In this mandate, there is already an increase of 60% in relation to the full mandate of the former Minister. Opening of the School for Bristow Stakeholders, beginning of operation of the laboratory at the Institute of Pathology of the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana, which will allow the establishment of a reference laboratory. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, as has already been said, we will not support the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health. It's the Minister of Health, mag. Bručan gave convincing answers based on verified data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the interpretation and I first invite Mr Gulic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u20	Dear Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Mr Minister with Fellow Workers! "Ut sementem feces, ita" - as you sow, you will wish. Since it has been four hours and a few minutes since the beginning, because there have been quite a lot of words, I think it is good that even for those who follow us through the media, we take the interpretation very briefly. I hope you don't mind, but it's seven basic issues. The first, which is, in some ways, central, because others also connect with it, is particularly inappropriate - long and porous - privatisation, perhaps not as wild as a wild, virtual anarchy, but it is really a frigid system for the overriding of individuals. The second observation is, of course, connected with the first, because there is no strategy, nor plan, for better health of the Slovenes and Slovenes, but all of this allows for the previously mentioned adoption, which is easier and more comfortable to carry out. The system of health homes is not a self-adventure and not an invention of socialism. But it's true she's an expert in II. World War II concluded that this is one of the best systems for general health, to raise the health of all the inhabitants of Slovenia at the time and also the present. This fragmentation, which is now being carried out and, of course, also in some way simplifies what people have created together - remember how many health homes have been built from self-contributions - is, of course, a transfer of property in an unjust way into other hands. The lack of enforcement of insurance laws also suggests that interpellation is justified. The manipulation of waiting times leads us to the very past history. I'm going to illustrate this to you with a story like the '70s when there was no coffee or washing powder and there were no species, because they weren't accepted in stores. It wasn't until they found out they were going to get anything. Mr Bručan, who is so innovative in this reduction of species, I can offer you, for example, a recipe to reduce species by putting people in four rows and reducing species by 75% by one step. I'll give you this, just don't brag about it like you're used to boast about other people's work. Another Latin proverb, so the story will go well forward "Acti labes incuncli" - The work done makes it happy, of course, even when someone else did the job. And let's focus on that famous Swedish Greek or Swedish research that you mentioned earlier. It was published in June 2006 and is said to have been made once before. The authors of the study were aware that many of the indicators they used were influenced by the amount of money that each country devotes to health care and we have $500 in Poland and 3,500 in Luxembourg. When they put this on the same score, it came to the fact that Slovenia is best ranked, but it is not your fault, Mr Bručan, but it is due mainly to the ministers who were before you, even in the six months of your ministry in the time of the Bajuk government. But talk about your self-esteem, everything that's good, take over, everything that's bad, and we'd interpret one former minister, and the other we'd even find Liberal Democracy and someone else. Today, the interpolation is for you. Here, we should still be in some kind of trouble. You keep saying how our system is to survive, how it needs to be radically changed, how it needs to be eliminated, what is general and public, and given into private hands. On the other hand, boast about the results of the study that said that all of this was good. Data are not from 2006, but from 2004, most data are not from your period, some also from 2005. You could also list in the manipulation of waiting periods, the clienteleism you're introducing in relation to cytopathology. Interestingly, even public money does not mean much to you, because you will now be brought in by "retung Hubschraubers" in the Slovenian sky by some already used helicopters from neighbouring countries instead of rescue helicopters, which were relatively cheaper. If you were the Minister of the Coalition, I'd be quiet and I'd say, have him and be happy to come to you, even if you don't come here with these laws. But Minister Bručan is not the minister of the coalition, but he is the minister of all of us: healthy, sick, doctors, patients, nurses, cooks and, I don't know, all of us, paramedics. On the other hand, he acts as if he is a supporter of only one very narrow part of the people working in health and health-related, but certainly not a minister of the sick. I fear that we will only remember the Minister after our most important purchase at the beginning of our term and that we will have a new saying: "Audi sex virus reddit." - Audi makes a man.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u21	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister or Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to begin by apologizing as a member of this National Assembly that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia manipulates both patients, patients and doctors and all health personnel. I also find this extremely unethical, and I share the view that their input is mainly due to their internal tensions, their disagreements and they want to divert their attention elsewhere. Here are accusations against doctors, against health personnel are incorrect and I am sure that they offend our doctors, our staff, because in the vast majority of them are people who are the main concern for the health of our people, and here to report that they are materialists, certainly not correct. I also share the view that we have a good, really good health system, but that does not mean that it is ideal. It means that there are still improvements to be made, and we can also introduce these improvements; and I am sure we will. The text of the interpolators made it clear that they were reading to our minister that he was causing unrest. You are disturbing, colleagues and colleagues from the Liberal Democracy, especially you, and not only with this interpretation, but also in recent months with two references to the extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee, you have tried again to represent two areas in the public at large differently than it has been in fact. The first case - the operating tables, which we know have been really resolved in the previous term, but Mr Keber has failed to resolve, the situation has been inherited by the current Minister, Mr Bručan, and with great effort, a lot of perseverance has been successfully completed, and today we think that there may be a lack of any operational tables in place. The following topic that raised a lot of dust in the public was the accusation that in an improper way, abuse of our patients was a test of drugs. After many discussions, evidence and not least after the final report, the Commissioner was informed that the testing of medicinal products in Slovenia is in accordance with the legislation, in agreement with the patients and solely intended for the benefit of our healthcare system. You're reading to our minister that he hasn't drawn up the relevant laws that the European Union commands. Who has not prepared these laws? Your Mr. former Minister Keber is a number of laws that should have been adopted at the time, unfortunately they are not, as we know, dealt with the White Paper, and he spent over 750 million taxpayers' money paying consultants from Australia; and what is the irony of all this being rejected by the LDS. It is true that Minister Bručan had to prepare those laws imposed by the European Union as a matter of priority immediately after the end of his term of office. If I'm trying to touch the most in the sky with the sobs on which you're building your interpolation. Here is the main focus on concessions. It is right that we are now trying to explain to our people what the concession means. It's just a real permit for a doctor to be able to do medical work in a public health network, that and nothing else. What's the difference between a concessionaire and a doctor in a health care facility? Practically no other in the substantive sense, but only in giving a doctor in a health care home to pay a health care home and the concessionaire actually gets it with the sum that the health insurance company gives him on the basis of uniform criteria. For patients, however, the biggest difference here is that, as a rule, there are no waiting types for doctor concessionaires. Why not? Since the system of their work is harmonised, optimized and practically all those who are ordered will come about for almost a minute. What are the concessionaires' obligations? Completely as set out in the concession contract concluded by someone other than the local community or the health care institution. It means that this Treaty specifies exactly the obligations that we require and expect of the concessionaire. And in the event that the concessionaire does not actually wish to comply with these obligations, he may also be deprived of the concession. Who pays the concessionaire? The same institution as health care, health insurance, on the same terms and under the same criteria or prices. The following question arises: Where do concessionaires want to do their work? As a rule, most of those who would like to do this activity in a health care home where they have been employed before, because they themselves realize that it is an optimal system, both for the health care home, for the patients and for themselves. And where the management of the healthcare home is inclined to actually want to settle this in some kind of agreement, then this situation is more than ideal. We have cases that have already been mentioned today both in Postojna and in Škofja Loka, Lucija, in Domžal, and here they should be taken an example. It's obvious that concessionaires aren't on duty. They may not be on duty, but it's not their fault, it's those who made the concession contract with them, and it certainly wasn't the minister. But I'm sure that's not the case, the concessionaires want to be on duty, but for some other reason, it's not usually allowed by the management of health homes. Why are some health - care homes poor? Certainly not because of the concessionaires and not because of the doctors. As a rule, they are always responsible for the management of the healthcare home. And here I'm going to point out, for example, the New City, which you also mentioned in the interpretation. The situation in this nursing home is truly unenviable. I come from New City myself, and I have looked into both concessionaires who have recently received concessions, as well as those doctors who are still part of a public network or who are employed in a health care facility. It was clear, both on the one hand and on the other, that finding fault here is mainly in the management of a healthcare home, which does not really want to contribute to this situation being regulated, nor with those employees who are in the healthcare home, let alone with the concessionaires. Concessionists want to continue working in a health care home, but they set impossible conditions and thus cause chaos. Here she could mention that she received a concession from an exceptionally recognised doctor in a healthcare institution, who is a member of the LDS, she was also a candidate in the national elections, an excellent doctor, an excellent doctor. And I can say that it really surrenders to patients and the desire to be awarded a concession, certainly was not more of a profit or money, but that it could do better and better in its own way. To speak here of the New City by those who do not know the matter, I suggest you choose another place or health home. It's obvious that top-notch doctors are only supposed to be in hospitals. I think such thinking is certainly unconstructive or unrealistic. We know that Slovenia is in the European Union and every good doctor, a good expert will gladly be admitted to any hospital in Europe or the world. And it is right to allow such doctors to develop in Slovenia in a way that is optimal for them. Therefore, with the possibility of such experts receiving concessions, we can only contribute to raising our health expertise, or that these experts will continue to actually do their work in Slovenia and thus also allow other experts or other doctors to learn. There have been reports here that there is now a shortage of personnel at the Clinical Center in many areas. As we know, both the professional director and the director of the Clinical Centre have made it absolutely public that so many young experts, specialists who will carry out this activity without any problems, will continue to do so. To talk about illegal award of concessions. It is clearly clear here that this is a fraud, an actual misinterpretation of our public, because concessions have been granted entirely in accordance with our legislation since 1992 in the same way. It is not sustainable to refer to the European Union. And now, don't you understand what I don't believe. The purpose here is primarily to mislead the public. In interpolation you also use the notion that concessions are being distributed somewhere by our patients or our citizens and citizens. This is again a false and misleading claim. Each patient has the same access both to the concessionaire and to the doctor in the healthcare centre, under the same conditions and in full free of charge, provided that they are insured. There's no difference. However, if there are restrictions, they are not restrictions on the concessionaire or on employees in a health care facility, but they are due to the limitation of money. And the reason for such restrictions is then in health insurance. And here everyone, if he wants to have a service that the health insurance company doesn't pay for, or if he wants to be prematurely involved in some kind of medical procedure, which, in any case, he has to stress, is not in any way dangerous to health or life, then everyone will be able to pay if they so wish, I repeat, both with the concessionaire and with the health care center or the health care doctor. It means there's no difference. I have already said about the bad conditions in health homes that the culprits are solely leadership, not concessionaries and not doctors who carry out activities there. The term wild privatisation, once again, is an adjective that clearly depicts all demagogy and the abuse of the public by that name. Concessionary, this does not mean that he becomes privatized or now becomes a person who offers health care for himself, but concessionaire is the one who performs health activities within the public health network. Here it was heard that health homes were now supposed to try to own or that they were supposed to move into equity. Yeah, who's the one who could give a health care home to a private sector? Is that Minister Bručan? Are they concessionaires? Are they working in a health care facility? We know who owns health homes, we know who's in charge of them. And here you would have to look for an answer to that question if that was actually the purpose, but as far as I know, there are no such attempts at least for the time being. But if such an attempt occurs, it is necessary to react in a timely manner, not to the Minister, Mr Bručan, but to the local community or to those who decide on these matters. Here it is noted that patients receive smaller or more infrequent laboratory tests in concessionaires than in healthcare professionals employed in a healthcare home. Here too, the matter is unfairly presented, for both the concessionary and the medical doctor in the healthcare home must provide the funds given to him by the health insurance company. There's no difference. So many investigations can be carried out as much as the money is provided by a health insurance company; and here again is not Minister Bručan the one who would restrict one or the other in any way. Here I would like to make a comment presented by the President of the Medical Chamber, where he commented that a basic care committee has met at the Medical Chamber, which consists mostly of doctors who are employed in health homes, and they also find without any doubt that in the so-called movement to preserve public health, there is a great deal if not most things are extremely misleading. A colleague named Jazbec referred to the originator of such ideas. I also have here on three or four pages a name, so-called independent health professionals, which all have LDS or SD. Political motivation here is present. There have also been reports of major damage caused by Minister Bručan through overpayment of drugs. It is in this area that Minister Bručan has taken an important step forward, as the problem has been addressed systematically. In its mandate, both the rules on fixing the highest prices and the Act on Medicinal Products have been amended. And the combination of these two will only have the effects now, although by this year's year August, 566 million tolars have been saved compared to 2004. I think that this is a lot of money that contributes significantly to the reduction in drug prices and, of course, more money for those interventions that are actually needed. Talking about waiting lines, not shrinking, is certainly incorrect and also misleading. For the proponents of interpolation of all data which are publicly available, you deliberately did not want to include only in order to present things differently than they really did. Minister Bručan himself said that the number of waiting has decreased four times in these two years, from 77,000 waiting to 20,000. I agree that, in all areas, the same scale of reduction has also been achieved, as there are certainly priorities for interventions that are most threatening to health or to people's lives. And here's the information on open-heart surgery - waiting from six months to 1.6 months. I think that there is an important contribution to improving health in this area. The fact that the Minister of the waiting line was shortening this kind only with some casual measures, with the money that had accidentally arrived in his budget, is not true. It is true that 5.5 billion more money has been provided as a result of the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act and that money is used to reduce waiting lines. But with the law that we have already passed in this mandate, it is estimated that at least 6 billion dollars per year from the compulsory insurance that all motor vehicle users have. And it is certainly a systemic approach that this money will be used to shorten waiting species in advance. We would now continue with the perception, which, especially among women, is causing false claims in the field of cytopathology or in the treatment of women in the cervix. Certainly this is a disease that is present on a large scale and is dangerous, and here Minister Bručan has also addressed this issue in a systematic way that will contribute to lasting solutions. We know that in this area there has been such a shortage of laboratories, a shortage of experts and also of money. And money, we know, is also provided for that purpose. What is a slightly larger problem, however, is certainly a lack of staff, but we also know here that only in his time more than 60% of specialist doctor specializations have been awarded, as was the case with Minister Kebra. The establishment of a school for the removal of swabs is certainly an important contribution to this, and we know that even according to the information available to ZORA, this area is increasingly under control, which means that women's awareness as well as health personnel are raising, which will contribute in the future to greater prevention in this area and also to lower disease or early detection of possible diseases, which also means timely treatment. Mainly, with the explanations given by Minister Bručan, I am fully satisfied. He was convincing, with publicly available data he argued everything and here I am giving him my support, giving him congratulations on the many problems he has managed to overcome so far, and I believe that he will continue his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u23	Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. A nice greeting for everyone from the seat of the House! I myself believe that today's interpretation session is something other than an alleged malicious, vicious attack by the opposition against the person currently serving as Minister of Health, Mr Mag. Andrey Brucan. I believe that this is the fight against disease, that it is our joint efforts to improve health and health safety in our country. And I am also sure that our patients are not interested in the alleged problems in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, more than the dissolution of this party are interested in the decomposition of the primary health sector. They also have no interest in what anyone has done or what is not in the past. They are interested in the present and are even more interested in the future if it comes to it. On this occasion, let me draw attention to Article 118 of the Constitution, which speaks of interpretation, which is just illegal, but the political action of at least ten Members and Members against the Government or individual minister. And there is no requirement for interpretation of a violation of the Constitution or of laws, such as the charge before the Constitutional Court; this is forgotten too often. The Rules of Procedure provide for an additional condition that all interpretation issues must be clarified and reasoned. And I am sure that this document, which was tabled by several Members, is fulfilled. You know, Mr. Secretary, like a few of my colleagues here, I can live in your skin. I myself was somehow pushed into politics and elected Minister towards the end of April 2004 and I sat there a few months later, a little more to the right than you on my part when I was experiencing my interpretation after a few months. It wasn't a nice, bad experience, so to speak, right after entering politics. But I've never taken all the charges and allegations from the current coalition as an attack on me. I took them "ad rem" as we like to say lawyers, that is, discussing the subject, the institution, the work, and not "ad personam". And I remember that Latin saying over and over again, and I apologize to all those who have Latin on their nerves, but I can't say better, and I will also translate it into Slovenian, "sonne ira et studio" - no anger, no emotions, calm and studyable. We forget this too often in this noble hall. That's why I'm so much more surprised, Mr. Minister, that in your answer - and I'm not saying that on your own account, I'm sure there were quite a few of your colleagues and colleagues working on this document - too much emotional charge. I have a feeling that you've been experiencing interpellation personally, as an attack on you, and I can list a few cases, very powerful, if not already exaggerated enemy adjectives; and at this point, I remember a volunteer who said that adjective was the worst enemy of the loners. There's something about these kind of enemies in the answer. Let's see. You mark our statements as completely distorted, unreal, deliberately misleading, subjective, tending, malicious, easy, verbal, bad, demagogic, ridiculous, tragic, sad, and imagined could even list, only then would you spend too much time trying to pick up on your answer. We also lack modesty, we are all likely, but if we are Members of all the people under Article 82 of the Constitution, and the executive power must not forget that it is in exactly the same function, only in the second pillar of power. The Minister in Latin means what? A servant, a servant of the people, not some master, an all-powerful man, but a master. And there probably hasn't been a minister yet who wouldn't have made any mistakes. I admit that I probably had it in three, four months when I came down here, in this bench, and I was intertwined. Therefore, to say that everything in the vine is twisted and nothing is real is not the most modest. But I'm going to avoid succulent adjectives myself. I just want to talk about the content of four points. I would like to talk about health institutions, a little bit about the granting of concessions, something about the Mutual Insurance Company, and just in the end about an area that is not exactly the subject of interpretation, but more about your future conduct, which will certainly be realized, namely the proposal on the quality and safety of human tissues and cells that are intended for treatment. Let me take my turn. We are talking about the breakdown of the primary health sector and the clearly worse situation of health institutions. I will try to quote as many independent experts as possible, and here I hope to argue, to use the argument of the opposite distinction again if these experts were not mentioned previously in the blacklist referred to by Mr Jazbec, then logically considered independent if they were dependent. And one of these was written by Dr. Marjan Chesen, who is in the last Saturday annex, among the letters of readers, but otherwise probably could not publish his thoughts, wrote: "Almost a normal phenomenon is of late, that they are ignorant and inexperienced politicians, when they first come to power, convinced that with them history and all other beginnings are new. They destroy everything around us in all-knowing enthusiasm, which is supposed to be old and survival, because they already know how the world needs to be transformed from the foundations up. In health care, this is reflected in the absence of sound health policy in the granting of concessions for the exercise of public health care activities at the primary level. At the same time, the business capacity of health homes is deteriorating." The contribution is longer, so let me mention just a few more of his thoughts, here we find information that health homes are by no means the invention of socialism and communism. It is said to have been the first in Lukovica in 1926 and have been the product of the health efforts of the capitalist Yugoslavia. Of course it's after II. World War II changed a lot, but that's when the next situation happened, and I can't get past the quote again. He says: "The healthcare home has thus become an integrated preventive and curative centre in the field of basic health, where people receive comprehensive and quality health care in one place. Such people have also accepted it, so it would certainly indicate that it should be preserved and developed further." And there is also a suggestion that I agree with myself: "In this direction, public health policy should be pursued, instead of watching for some time now the same breakdown of health homes, because they are supposed to be obsolete health institutions. I am sure," says Dr. Chesen, "that well-organised and effectively run health care homes are still the best form of basic health care." So much for health homes. Another area, which is also mentioned in Finance today, is that only concessions can lower you, and I would say so. I would like to start with a letter that we probably all Members and Members received yesterday from the movement to preserve public health and already belong to any list. They say, "Dear Members and Members of Parliament! Minister of Health Andrej Bručan persistently overlooks the clearly expressed desire of more than 47,700 people, supporters of the movement to preserve public health in order to stop the award of concessions. In contrast to this clear wish, on Monday, 20 November 2006, the Minister granted another 50 concessions." And if I do a little bit more of the main thought, the movement calls on Members and Members to do their utmost to stop the chaotic award of concessions and to require the relevant authorities to verify the adequacy and legality of the concessions granted in November 2006 and, if necessary, earlier. As a lawyer, I am more interested in qualitative or legality than the quantitative aspect of concessions. I am pleased that on the blacklist, at least among those mentioned, there was no leading expert in Slovenia in the field of concessions and public procurement, Dr Alexi Možina. Here I have his legal opinion on the 12 sides on the conformity of the concession decision and the concession contract with the rules relating to the assistant mags. Mark Bytenec. So that there's nothing wrong with him, I'll just quote him, but the opinion is here. He responded to four dilemmas that arise not only in relation to this particular concession and contract, but with everything. First - The duty to select the concessionaire on the basis of the advance publication. Second, on the compatibility of the concession decision with the rules. Thirdly - Content of the concession contract from the point of view of the Health Act. Fourthly - The validity of the concession contract in the event of irregularities identified due to suspension, the execution of the invitation to tender and/or the illegality of the decision on the selection of the concessionaire. So the first question is, "Can the concessionaire be chosen only on the basis of a preliminary publication?" Dr Možina cites the case-law of the European Union, for example, the Teleaustria case or the case of the Deutsche Bibliotek case, where it has been made clear that the case-law of the European Union is therefore the duty of the State to respect the fundamental principles and rules of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which, in particular, highlight the principles of non-discrimination and, of course, also the transparency of the procedure for granting concessions. It goes on to say that the European acquis is perfectly clear on the duty to grant concessions on the basis of a pre-publishment, without necessarily applying the same rules as for public procurement. Let me get this straight. Dr. Možina says that it cannot be seriously expected that the Court of Justice of the European Community will be in current cases - you know them, the Commission against Ireland, so [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the Commission v Ireland in the second case - in order not to follow Mrs Stix Hackl's Advocate General on the necessity of pre-trial treatment. [[..]] If we believe in leading experts not only at home but also in the European Union, all concessions that did not comply with this condition after the inclusion of any country, including the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, of course, can be abolished or put into question. It goes even further in Dr. Možin's thinking on the basis of European case law, perhaps even those concessions that have been concluded, of course, contrary to the European legal order, before joining the European Union, will be called into question. Regarding the compatibility of the specific decision for Mark Bitenc concerning the award of a concession with the regulations, Dr. Možin said, quote: "In the case of the award of the concession M. B., that is to say, Mr Mark Bitenc, there are a number of shortcomings in the provision on the award of the concession," and Article 214 of the General Administrative Procedure Act states. The following are evident as essential infringements of this Decision. First time. Lack of indication of the provisions on which the decision is based. Another time. The reasons which, in view of the actual situation found, dictate such a decision and also support its findings by the case-law of the Administrative Court. It also points out that it must be publicly expressed in the decision that the healthcare institution has the right to be a party to the proceedings and, in the light of everything, notes that the contested award decision does not comply with all the statutory elements, among which it goes particularly to state the reasons, as it has been said, which, in view of the actual situation found, impose such a decision. The third area concerns the content of the concession contract. It also notes here that the force is scrap, and in particular lacks control instruments which must be in accordance with the Health Act, and says that it does not have the provisions which such contracts must contain by nature, for example, the place of business, contractual penalties in the event of a breach, the rights and obligations of the parties in the event of divorce or termination of the contract. And he says that controls and sanctions should be regulated in the concession contract also because of legal subordination as long as it exists. If there is once a law here, then such provisions of the law, which will be binding, will automatically be part of every contract. And a fourth dilemma. In view of the validity of the contract in the event of irregularities found for the suspension of the public tender, whether or not these contracts are automatically null and void, I confess here that I will quote everything, including what is not, in quotations, to the people on the skin. Actually, the legal profession here is unclear. It's not 100% that such irregularities are automatically null and void. It is clear, however, that the decision and the contract do not contain the elements required by the European acquis, that it is illegal, null and void in this case, and must be repealed in this part. And, as it is said, regardless of the fact that only one lawyer has been exposed on several occasions, the case law as a whole, and the case law as a whole, as well as the case that is able to be used in an analogous manner, confirms this. In short, if I may conclude, it follows from the opinion that both the present - the decision and the contract to grant a concession without prior public publication - are likely to violate the acquis of the European Union, that the decision on the selection of the concessionaire is, irrespective of the findings of the first indent of the decisions, in substantive contravention of the General Administrative Procedure Act, that certain issues which are essential for its implementation are not addressed in the concession contract, such as the issue of control and sanctioning. Finally, even if the contract as such is not automatically null and void, it is certainly again a questionable advance publication which was not available in this case. It's just one case, these cases are even more, but I wanted to be perfectly reasoned and legal here, and I didn't want to go through the practice of not going down on a dangerous political floor. The third point I would like to touch is the Mutual Insurance. We also worked here with the minister. Let me briefly say that last year, if you remember, in December, exactly one year ago, I asked President Janša on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia the question: How will he prevent the privatisation of the Mutual Insurance Office? At that time, each other has always acted in contravention of the principles of reciprocity and solidarity, just to remind you of a few examples. She was going to increase the premiums of older and sicker insurers. More than 60,000 insured have been fooled by the conversion of life insurance to 12 years of age, silenced their total reduction in entitlements of about 4.5 billion tolars. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs then tried unilaterally to cancel the supplementary health insurance contract, 71,000 disabled persons, victims of war violence and war veterans. Then she tried to distribute some kind of property certificates, which all of them, so to speak, condemned the entire legal profession and could still be listed. It is commendable that the government reacted relatively quickly, so within two months, and, of course, it ended it. One of the rare moments when we were in this room together with executive power, so to speak, all of us. But of course I still care about the latest forecasts that now the Mutual wants to join with another very large insurance company, i.e. the already merged Slovenian and Adriatic insurance company. And I would like to ask the Minister here what he promises and predicts on the 50th page of his appreciated answer. It promises that the Ministry of Health will propose some legislative solutions for the protection of insured persons. And I would ask if the Minister could describe them, because this Mutual, I think to all of us, the good million Slovenes and Slovenians or residents and residents of thorns in the heel, and we would really deserve to know in Parliament whether anything is done in the future or not. And maybe some words about who cares about public interest in this area. Complementary health insurance is a public interest by law. The Insurance Supervisory Agency shall be competent only and only for the protection of insured persons. However, the public interest in all developed countries is realized by the Government and, of course, the Parliament and part of the Government are also the Ministry of Health. Thus, the argument that this is not in your field, that it is only one branch of the Ministry of Finance or, consequently, of the agencies, is not true. Thank God, you've repeatedly acknowledged this by your actions, by various letters, calls to the agency somehow, at least quietly. And four more, then I'll finish. The draft Law on the Quality and Safety of Human tissues and cells intended for treatment is being prepared, which has already been referred by the Ministry of Health to coalition coordination recently. Here I have a letter from the Slovenian Institute for Organ and Tissue Transplantation, "Slovenian Transplant". And in this letter it is clearly stated that the law does not correspond in a few parts. This time, however, I would like to ask you to listen to these comments, to mention just one thing, they say: "The powers of the Ministry of Health, the Agency for Medicinal Products, Slovenia-Transplant and all operators involved in the national system of tissue and cell treatment are not clearly demarcated, the tasks are not clearly divided into administrative and professional tasks. "Then, the bill does not contain links to the legislation in force. The bill allows for too much abuse, as there are no clear definitions of areas of the public-private sector. And I could count it. I'd love to give you this copy of the letter later if you don't have it. Let me get this straight. Minister, I would like to give you another opportunity, because I believe that by taking into account all our comments or at least those which are undoubtedly legal and otherwise reasoned, your work would improve to this extent, so that it would no longer be disputed. I'm sorry your answer, as it is, does not convince me, unless, of course, a later debate shows otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u25	Mrs. Zalokareva, would you like a word on behalf of the motioner? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first to repeat that today is an interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister Bručan. Today, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is not on the bench where to defend itself. We have written this interpellation and have shown a sufficiently active role and wanted to speak here today, in a Parliament where in two years, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have not talked once about health care as a whole, about the system, about how our people feel, we are their constituents, what they think about waiting periods, what they think about the prices of medicines, what they think about the award of concessions. Today we've dealt with this opportunity by interpolation. And of course, if you look at these nine laws that you talked about earlier, which the minister brought up, it's almost almost -- I'd say nothing except for the Equalization Schemes Act, which was substantively important. All other laws have been passed by reduced procedures. And it already says that these are actually laws that do not bring about significant changes and where only the articles are amended. And these are, for example, laws such as the Biocidal Products Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act, amendments to the Health Inspection Act, the Law on the Control of Strategic Goods and the Meaning for Protection and Health, amendments to the Law on Infectious Diseases and so on. I mean, it's actually about time we started talking about this. Also today, Minister Keber is not being intertwined. Minister Keber has completed his term of office. I must warn my colleagues that the Liberal Democracy had only this minister. The former ministers came from the Slovenian People's Party. It is also not an interpretation of the Movement for the Conservation of Public Health, which you want to call today as a so-called movement. The so-called movement has 47,000 people, and if you've pulled a few members of LDS and SD out of it, that's better. I am sorry that there are no SDS members in this movement, because that would be good. This would be very good, and we would work together and make proposals there. Of course you have a minister and you work through him. I am also sorry that today we have received criticism from colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. I'm sorry they're not participating in today's debate. In recent days, they have expressed publicly that they have many comments, that they have many critical thoughts and that they have had enough to fill 7-14. We wrote them. Then it would be good for us to be with us today and not only to complain insulted that they were not invited to write the interpolation. We wrote interpolation very quickly, no matter what happened in the media. It's been a while. We knew there were 80 new concessions pending at the Ministry, and we were confident that the Minister would not grant them under pressure of interpretation. We therefore rushed into the role, but unfortunately the Minister's interpretation did not stop and concessions were granted on 20 November. But I'll repeat a few questions. I hope the minister picks up. Cytopathology or HPV vaccination? I want to really talk today about what people are interested in and many people have asked us, Minister, when will this vaccination be possible, i.e. for 84,000 tolars, when will you sign the documents waiting for you at the Ministry? Above all, we would also like to answer: What is your timetable and timetable for free vaccination that Slovenian girls expect from Slovenian women? When, in what way will funds be provided, how can we expect this to take place in Slovenia? With regard to the allocation of funds in the health treasury for the abolition of waiting periods. No new developments took place in 2005 and 2006. This happens every year. But it is true, as we have pointed out - because of the change in the tax procedure, probably also due to the rise in wages, this sum increased significantly to our common happiness in 2005. It increased to 8 billion according to the Ministry's 2006 estimate. They're very grateful. And I hope we spend this money well to put an end to this. Our goal is not to make it go bad. Our goal is to make things better and better. But even in previous years, this money was between 1 billion and 3 billion, and this share of funds increased annually, which was then intended to eliminate waiting periods. With regard to medicines prices, I would like to say that the Minister has adopted, or we have all adopted, the Medicinal Products Act together, and the Minister is adopting a regulation based on this law. What we read to the minister is that the law and the rule of law allow him to adjust his medicines more up-to-date. It says there and even in your reply it is necessary to do so at least twice a year. That's in your answer. But "at least" can mean three times, five times, ten times. If you want the case, in Germany they adjust the price of medicines twice a month. Why? Because they find that this activity is so pervasive that things happen so quickly that the minister has to react quickly. And since our minister is not responding so quickly, but he is waiting for only six months of adjustment, the price of the box of Sinvacor in Germany, according to your response in September, has been reduced by 48%. And we're still paying the price you agreed to in June on the basis of the data from May. This is the catch we're talking about and what we're trying to warn you about and why you've spent at least two billion tolars. You can change the rules, too. You can make your own decisions, together. This will then also apply to contracting authorities to change this more frequently if this is happening on the market. The European market is characterised by a very rapid, monthly drop in drug prices. It's a loose end. And you don't follow. That's why we have a lot of financial damage. With regard to waiting periods, you said and operated continuously with these numbers 77 and now 20,000. Okay, let's believe that. We've been proving to you that it isn't. We've been proving to you that it isn't. That everything in practice is different. And yes, of course, to this number 20,000, unfortunately, we have doubts, because this number has occurred, I will say, almost a regulation, an emergency, appeals and calls that health care institutions and hospitals should show a better state, because the minister did not believe in that. And then we can think about what directors are doing that are directly dependent on the Ministry and how these numbers have changed. And the travel slips in the closets, and the not signing into the waiting books, then the people in the waiting books aren't, they're not on the books. Our point is, we make a national waiting period, we publish it online to make it accessible to everyone. That when I applied for any surgery, you were only talking about open-heart surgery. What about a kilo? What about a gray one? What about your knees? What about your shoulder? The kind of data that is not favorable, the magnetic resonance in Ljubljana, which is not what it's said to be. She's been gone for two years. That's not what we're talking about. Let's order some waiting books. You get a number, you know exactly where you are. You see, you might even have to go to another hospital in Slovenia, but that's transparency. Do we want it? Mr. Minister, answer in public: Do you want this transparency? And when will you introduce her? When can we expect it? You said we had ideological prejudices against concessions. You've denied it yourself. When I was mayor - and this was also stated by the Minister - I had no ideological prejudices and we awarded concessions in Domžal. It is true, however, that we worked very hard on the contracts and that they were not what Paul’s colleague was talking about, but very precise ones, who obliged concessionaires to work in a health care home, to watch them pay for the emergency. Except for the one that was signed before I did. So in the years leading up to 1995, and that doctor who doesn't have it in the contract doesn't want to be on duty and pay the E.R. In short, me or us have no prejudices. We have granted concessions, we have supervised them and we have tried to accept good solutions in this respect. But I told you before, in dental care, I take the blame. Our concessions, which we have granted, have proved completely inadequate. I also accept this responsibility. I've already taken it today. It's obvious to the Minister, and you said that we want you to act quickly, revolutionaryly, and that we want you to change laws quickly. Not to me, Mr Minister, at a meeting where you presented your programme at the beginning of your term of office or at which you presented yourself as a future minister, you yourself referred to such "revolutionary terms". You yourself said, inter alia, that the Health Act should be amended no later than one year and that you will. It's a law where we're supposed to set up a health network. I can quote you, and here's a magnetogram. You said it yourself. Then this law will have to be examined and adopted in 2005. The second law you announced for 2005, Minister, is the Long-Term Insurance Act. We have not seen this law in Parliament either. You said here, and I'll do it, as soon as possible in 2005. Then you yourself spoke at this hearing, as he is told, about the establishment of the Ombudsman and yourself stressed how urgent it is. You used to say you were trying. I find it hard to believe he's real. For 6 months, this law was on the Internet. Then he disappeared from there in June. It's December now, the law is still not in Parliament. What's going on with him, I don't know? You probably know. And, of course, that's some feedback on what we've been talking about so far. I also expect specific answers, and we will insist. But I think we spoke last time about the interpretation of LDS by former Minister Kebra. This minister had his own interpretation, survived it. We were also intertwined in 2004. Gentlemen, finish this story and take responsibility after two years for your rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u28	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to start by saying a few words about this, and I'm going to say what I'm going to say to the main point that you're interpreting and you're reading today. This is about some wild privatisation that is taking place in Slovenia. If it wasn't for a wild privatisation, they're talking numbers. These numbers just need to be looked at and evaluated properly. But if that is the purpose of those who do not look into these numbers, then of course they may have the wrong conclusions, as you do, and especially the movement to maintain health. I have to say, I'm a very large public health supporter myself. You've set me up with some opposition to public health through various institutions. Of course it's not true, it's pure demagogy, it speaks of facts. At this time, during the last two years, I have made it clear that I want to maintain public health. I have proved that I have substantially reduced the waiting periods, and you may or may not object. I have proven this through the full operation and the numbers on the concessions granted confirm this. In 2004, when I came to the Ministry, we received 100 outstanding applications for concessions from the previous period in December. In this way, of course, it is very possible to reduce the number of concessions or the number of concessions granted. You don't even answer them, and you don't answer them. Not even that. We got all this. If I add all of these 100 concessions or the applications for concessions to those we granted in 2005 and 2006, you will see that this number is on average equal to the average of the concessions granted in previous periods, no more than one concession. It is true, however, that the number is higher in distribution than at the time Minister Keber was Minister of the Ministry of Health. At that time, concessions were deliberately stopped without a clear explanation and without a serious reason in order to analyse something that was supposed to be written in the Green Paper, which, of course, you have also very much criticized and did not support in the final stage. Thank God you did this, because if we didn't have a problem now, we should be correcting those changes. At least that's not necessary. So, as far as the concession is concerned, I must say that, of course, the number of concessions granted absolutely rejects the instigation of my wild privatisation at the basic level, even at the secondary level. These concessions, which have been awarded, are, in more than half of the cases, I think that in 60% of them are distributed in one way or another by the municipalities, and I have nothing to do with them at all in the first stage. I just confirm them on the basis of the congregation’s decision. Madam Former Mayor Domžal, you have granted quite a lot of this concession and this is not really bad. This is even good because you have enabled a lot more access to treatment. This is no problem, but the problem is that you're giving me some of the actions that I didn't do, of course. According to the legislation in force, 1992 we have a mixed health system in Slovenia in the area of the collection of property and the execution of public health services. Public service is carried out under the same conditions by public health establishments and other legal and natural persons on the basis of a concession. This is exactly what has been giving direction over the past two years to the award of concessions to our ministry. At the time of my term of office, I announced the preservation of all the acquisitions and upgrades of our health system and the resolution of the weaknesses identified. So stability on the one hand and improving the health system and no large-scale privatisation which I have not done in these two years. My warnings about the poor functioning of health homes have been directed towards achieving better accessibility and greater cost-effectiveness. I have focused attention on the effectiveness of the entire health system and not just public institutions or health homes, as the proponents tell me. The previous orientation of health care in Slovenia said that health care homes are the basic cell of health care or the basic factor in the field of health care. This has led to various problems that we are now solving and that are very difficult to solve. For all the forecasts, I have sought, above all, to gradually increase the proportion of concessionaires at the primary level, and I have also stated somewhere, - and I am also sure - that that suitable number by 2008 is 50%. However, this is without coercion with the clear preservation and organisation of the implementation of the preventive programmes and the emergency services. The countries in Europe have moved from the former communist systems to the reorganisation of health care. One of these is Estonia. Estonia made a single move to privatize or private life at the level of basic health care, and it turned out to be bad. It turns out that this has a whole range of problems and that this is not a suitable way. We did not go in this direction at any point at any time during this time of the Ministry of Health. In the exercise of privacy in health care, we have decided to make a gradual transition. As Minister, I have always sought, in accordance with my responsibilities, to eliminate obvious imbalances in supplies between individual congregations, areas and specialties. Concessions were granted only where the needs of insured persons are not covered in the existing public health service network. The granting of concessions in accordance with our legislation is also not possible as a violation of European Community law, which I will talk about later when I answer some of the individual questions that have arisen. Control over concessionaires always somehow you realize that this control is not taking place. It flows in the same way as the supervision of public institutions. There's no difference. It is true, however, that this control is essential in the future, and it is essential to strengthen it, and our direction is also intended to do so in the coming year. In any case, the number of controls, both administrative and professional supervision and supervision of the insurance undertaking, is significantly too small. I have mentioned several times to the health insurance company and to the health insurance management that the number of inspectors for this area needs to be increased. I'm afraid that hasn't happened yet. My impact on this increase is zero, except for the recommendation. So that this recommendation on the increase of the inspectors I am advocating has not been given any realisation. The indication that the profit is the main or only motive of the concessionaires is not based. According to the survey of the Association of Private Doctors and Dentists of Slovenia - and I hope you believe them - the main reasons for such a work are as follows: independence at work and decisions, acquisition of equipment and accommodation of premises, organization of work by measure and by measure of patients, and increased educational opportunities according to the needs of the activities. Not until later, but after all, there is a financial motive in the fifth place. And I'm sure that's true. As far as future concessions are concerned, I should say a few words. In fact, the law currently in force is 14 years old. That this law has some shortcomings and that is why we have decided to prepare additional or new legislation in this area that will take into account all the modern aspects of this activity. And, of course, this law is ready. I hope that with the two, three amendments that are still needed, in a short day for public hearing, it will solve a number of uncertainties. Above all, in this law - what is not before us - we will clearly define the need for a compulsory tender for concessions. This will be dealt with by this law and, of course, many other things. However, I think it is most important that it also regulates the field of secondary level, where a self-employed or free doctor will be specifically characterised and will also have special responsibilities and opportunities. In this way, I think it is possible to solve the problem of the departure of concessionaires at the secondary level in the future. I am convinced that the current organisation or the functioning of the award of concessions at the primary level is as much resolved by this legislation as it is by this legislation. However, in this way things are more vague at the secondary level. But in this way, all concessions have been granted so far. All concessions from 1992 to 2006 were distributed in the same way, absolutely no different, all the time. And I don't know why it's suddenly become a problem to grant concessions that aren't even more than before in this period, just because I stand up for it or because I don't oppose granting concessions. That's the only reason. I think there's obviously just some political purpose here. This isn't about a serious approach. As far as the other readings are concerned, I could tell you a few more words about responsibility. For example, in this case for the case of the Health House in Slovenska Bistrica. Here you were talking about some problems that arise as an example of a healthcare home that is supposed to cause serious health problems. The answer we received, as well as you, who received it from the management of the healthcare home, of course also published in the newspapers, said something else. That is to say, in this case, the situation is going well there, the duty station is organised as it must be, and there are no major problems. Not in the area of prevention either. Now this answer, which was published in the newspaper and which I myself have heard from management, is, I hope, correct. As far as the award of the concession is concerned, as far as Mark Bitenc's concessions are concerned. We somehow see a poor explanation and also an unwarranted and misleading concession without a public invitation to tender. I've already said something about that. And once again, I'm going to stress what I've said several times. The concession for a significantly larger programme, for a significantly larger programme, was awarded at the time of the Ministership of Dr. Kebra to the company Medico in Isola. So, financially, I don't even know exactly how much bigger, but in this way, the multiple can be ten times bigger, so no one had any comments at the time, and I don't understand why not. Medicor got a concession without a public invitation to tender. It's been a call, just like it's always been. There's no difference at all. The invitation was for room only. And that was the invitation. However, there was no invitation to tender for the concession, nor did the law provide for it. Therefore, of course, it is even more incomprehensible that this constant repetition of these necessary tenders is to grant concessions under the current legislation in our country. Now, to continue as far as the Beatench concession is concerned. Once again, I stress that the entire procedure for awarding the concession to Mark Bitenc has been carried out in accordance with the rules in force, irrespective of what was said by Mr Pavliha earlier in its implementation. We received a positive opinion from the insurance company and the Medical Chamber. The measures for implementation were obtained by Bitenc following the notification and publication on the annual invitation to tender of the insurance undertaking at which it was also successful by the application. However, I can safely argue that this award of concession has helped to shorten the waiting periods for thyroid surgery. The number of patients awaiting thyroid surgery decreased over the year from 342 to 299. By 1 September 2005, at 114 or 66%. Of this, Marko Bitenc has performed quite a number of operations. And as far as Mark Bytentz is concerned, he's not a protectionist, a protégé. He received a concession on the basis of, in the same way as everyone else before him and others behind him also in agreement with the Clinical Centre when he left with a certain part of the programme. I must say that this correlation or this cooperation between him and the Clinical Centre was in the first two months as intended. Later, the management of one department in thoracic surgery discontinued this cooperation, although Dr. Bitenc was constantly prepared to work in the department under the same conditions as all others who are regularly employed in this department. As far as I'm concerned, he's sick. On the basis of the agreements reached with the social partners, the Ministry of Health introduced provisions on the coverage of health services for extreme sports injuries of 60% from compulsory health insurance and for injuries caused by alcoholism, the use of psychotopic substances of 75%, on the basis of proposals for amendments and additions to the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. I must say that in these negotiations on the sick we have recently achieved some really great results. The unions in the last interview I had with them also made that clear. We're not aligned in a couple of points that don't mean any problem. I don't think there's a problem for me today, too, that alcoholic drivers of traffic accidents don't have high coverage of the hospital or treatment after 30 days. I think that some kind of educational principle is necessary, but at least in a minimum form, it is also necessary to maintain it. As far as damage to risky sports and their payment to the hospital is concerned. I think it's okay if someone skis in an unprotected field and gets hurt that part of the responsibility is to carry it alone. But this does not apply to those who engage in sports recreationally and to those who would, of course, suffer injury. Therefore, of course, it is conceivable that by means of this law we wanted, or by means of these amendments, to limit recreational activities in any way. Maybe there's something else about this law. In fact, we wanted to balance the impact of various social teams on their participation in the management of health insurance. We did not think it appropriate that this is too located only on individual groups. And this is what a proposal is made to set up an insurance assembly. The news is that, according to the proposal of the novel, it gives consent to the appointment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not the National Assembly. The non-implementation of insurance laws has been the subject of some of the problems related to the Mutual Health Insurance Company. In the National Assembly, there were very different trends regarding the Mutual. You know that. One for privatisation, one for privatisation. The law governing the compensatory scheme clearly speaks of the Ministry's obligation to prepare the Law on the Conversion of the Mutual into a Shareholder Society. Such a law is in preparation and has its own deadline within which it must also be adopted. With regard to the transformation of the Mutual or Merger with other insurance companies, however, the Ministry has not been officially informed for once and, of course, we cannot give any specific opinions. But I think it's our job to protect the insurance companies, and that's what we're gonna do. Those insured persons who at that time, if there were any mergers between insurance undertakings, but which only the Ministry has absolutely no special influence as long as these mergers of its shareholders occur, will always be on the side of the insurers, in particular those who do not wish to enter a shareholding company. Those who wish to remain within the framework of the Mutual Insurance Company in the form it is. This will be our goal and our mission in the future. Therefore, it is not true that the Mutual Leaves a Wild Privatisation, but, contrary to the introduction of a proposal for amendments and the addition of the Health and Health Insurance Act, I have also prevented this. The Constitutional Court also confirmed my proposals and proposals by the Government and rejected the proposed referendum so that the National Assembly could adopt a law protecting the material interests of insurers and insurers. Like the Minister, of course, I have never left citizens in uncertainty, but I have actively contributed to their integrity and information and behaviour by means of materials and statements. Then there's a whole series of perceptions about the absence of public dialogue. Now those polls and those indicators that can indicate how much public dialogue someone has, show that we are among those who have far the most of this dialogue or that we are among those who have the most public dialogue. I think that's obvious, too. As far as this is concerned, let's say, the deteriorating words about health homes, as they were heard. I've never spoken ill of nursing homes. I was just saying that polls have shown that patients with kindness and private work after polls are a little more satisfied with them than with health care. I still say here that in a healthcare home it can be as friendly or as friendly as in a private. But the organization in health homes is sometimes such that it makes it impossible. Of course, organizational changes and those that are urgently needed in a health care home are those that could lead to changes in health homes as well. As far as doing health care is concerned, they're failing. This, of course, is also an interesting claim. These health homes are getting richer and richer. The results in 2005 recorded a cumulative and business result of 947 million tolar health homes, i.e. 1.3% in the total income of health homes. In 2004, health homes realised 516 million, which means 0.7% of the total income of health homes. Medical homes have nominally achieved this with 431 million tolars or 83.5% better results. This is said to be the case, health homes in Slovenia do not fail financially, certainly not and not organisationally. But their role can change. Maybe a few more words about the network. The network at the primary level is very important in terms of not the network when we can identify the current situation. It's very easy to figure out. But it is more difficult to draw up a network that will live and that can change quickly from moment to moment. For this purpose, we have asked the Institute of Joseph Stephen to prepare with its capabilities a system that could enable the life of such a network. For once, I have to say that the problems are such that there have been various jams here and that, for once, such networks that could work 100% well have failed to be prepared. I agree with that, it is possible, but we have been working in this direction all the time and we have been trying to get a network based on these different opinions and the data that is absolutely necessary for this network to live. Because there's nothing that's helping the network to just show the current situation. That's what we already have, that's not a problem, that's what we had in 2000, and then in four years no one wanted to use it or couldn't. Maybe he couldn't either, because he's not only in desire, but he's also in the possibilities that exist for it. On a secondary level, this network exists anyway. I am grateful to you, Mrs Zalokar, for some sub-directions on antibiotics, but we will let that go, because I probably know that more than you do. Now, with regard to the travel and the increase in the number of second-level referrals, some data are showing quite wrong. You also spoke of Professor Arnež and his decisions as an expert of the highest degree in plastic surgery. I must say, Professor Arnez and I have made a deal. He wanted to leave the clinic alone, but we had some kind of long-term conversation on which he wouldn't even let himself talk, but he said he wanted to leave. And since that wish was present, we agreed to do everything possible. And now, in this regard, you've also read to me the award of concessions only for an outpatient activity in this last invitation to tender, which was made according to yours at night. This nighttime is very interesting. In fact, it was necessary to sign concessions at the time because it was not until that day that we from the institutions that we received information from several institutions that day, whether they leave doctors among the concessionaires or not. However, since we did not have all this information, it was impossible to divide the situation so that this 470 million could not be recovered, and the money given to the patients to extend the programmes for concessionaires could not be recovered. And that was the reason that this was done at the last moment. And it's okay, the insurance company had its deadline, and by the time these concessions were granted. On the other hand, I must say that concessionaires have been awarded a concession for the area for which the need has been expressed, both as regards accessibility and as regards the percentage of doctors employed in the area and also financial opportunities. And financial opportunities at this stage allowed concessions to also be granted to surgeons in the field of outpatient activities. It is not said that it is not possible in the future as you yourself have already said in the case of a financial possibility that such a concession may also become other types or even different from its content. Now a few more words about these concessions and European legislation. Slovenia's entry into the European Community does not mean that concessions are illegal. The opinion of the Advocate General of the European Union that the Court should repeal the concession contract in Ireland, since it was concluded without a prior invitation to tender, is not yet a Community opinion and has not been formally adopted. However, the finding of non-compliance with the award of public service concessions in the field of health activities with the legal order of the European Union needs to be further clarified. With regard to the above statement, the authors of the interpretation and you, Members, today refer to the opinion of this Advocate General. The Commission v Ireland, where things have not yet been clarified, nor is the opinion of lawyers so uniform. When we asked lawyers from various parts of Slovenia, as well as around the world about this. I must say, opinions are very, very different. The Court will decide on this, but whatever the decision may be, does not mean that the present concessions have been granted illegally to us since 1 May 2004. You've talked about a lot of other things. The first medical assistant is a certain problem. The claim that we have granted a health assistant any other work permit is unrealistic. Permission to work, and if you read it correctly, you will see what this work permit says. It says they can perform primary health care and nothing else. Everything else in this permit doesn't say. So all these obvious things that I've given away to this medical assistant, of course, are unjustifiable, completely unjustifiable. That is why, in my opinion this summer, I have made it clear that I believe that this is an insurance policy, that in my opinion this business is not legal, and so I have sent an opinion to the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which must give its final opinion. If this is the case, there may be different other routes leading to the court as well. About the membership that private doctors are in some client, I wouldn't be talking here. It was obvious that some of them were members of the SDS. I don't think so. But I didn't check it out. Now, as regards some of the answers to questions or some of the findings or findings of a later discussion. It is not a frivolous system for the introduction of privacy, as Mr Gulič said. On the contrary, it is a perfectly transparent legal way. As for the construction of health homes, some health homes were truly built with self - contributions. But who's taking them and who's taking them? So far, we haven't taken anyone else's health care home or sold them. Still, all health homes are in the hands of the founders, that is, the congregations. Every other interpretation is. Just tell me one thing that's gone, and we'll talk straight away. All health homes are still in the hands of the congregations and will remain in the hands of the congregations, for there can be no other way. In the event that work is fully carried out in a health care institution within the framework of this public health care, the health care home or the congregation will receive some more money from it, but the owner will still remain, as he will receive the rent and the municipality and the founder will no longer have to invest in the health care home itself, but the concessionaires will be obliged to do so. If you don't see at least one option here to improve the functioning of health homes, yes, then there is no help. As for some kind, they were, Mr. Gulic, for what you said, coffee or I don't know what, for all sorts. We stood through the ranks all the time without any peace in it. So, those were bad times. So I wouldn't want to see them again. Today’s species are being reduced in health care. But it's possible, what you're saying, in individual cases, that somewhere in some window when they report someone off and put him out of line, I'll say that by not counting him at all, they give him for the second year and they say, come next year and sign up. That's possible. But it's not just a matter of privacy, it's also a matter of public office. But this case, if it happens, can only be settled in one case. That's when we know about it when we get the application. Without that, I'm sure you and I won't be able to do it and improve it. But in every particular situation, I am prepared to make a difference so that it will work the way that you and I and all of us, and especially our patients, want it. As far as clienteleism is concerned, I have already answered, there was no clienteleism in this mandate, and I have already responded to the Mark Bitenc concession. As for Mr Grill, I'd say he said a lot of things that I might say. I must say that I fully agree with him in this implementation and he has allowed me to speak a little less because he has said practically a few things that were very important for understanding the matter. Of course, I still owe Mr Paulich some answers. Now that the minister is a servant. I've been learning Latin for eight years. I know exactly what I'm doing, and I'm working on it, too. I think he really is a minister and our job is actually meant to serve patients or insurance. Not to admit mistakes, of course, will not be entirely true. You know, only mistakes are what they really are and mistakes are what they're obvious to you, and they're not. These are two completely different things. I made a mistake, if I made it, I still confessed and tried to fix it in agreement, on some level. Certainly not in the kind of statements that have been made recently, mainly by this. Moving to preserve public health. Now on the breakdown of the health system. No way. That's what all the polls in the world at our place show. We don't have any breakdowns in the health system. That's what I want to tell you here and everyone. And to be alone with some of the results from previous times. Of course, that's not true. I made it clear that the survey that showed our good health in Europe is a result of the entire period. But I also made that clear today, here for the pay phone and so far I've said it's a result of action. In particular, it is due to the stable financial situation in the health sector provided by the health insurance company at all times. That's what this is all about. This stability is due to this. However, it is true that if I had taken into account the results of 2006, which were not taken into account, but only from 2005 and 2004, then our city would have been significantly better. That's what I said, and that's the truth. You can show that with numbers. We can also do that if you want to do it tomorrow at every single point. But it's not possible to say this right now. As far as legality is concerned, Mr Pavliha, there are very different opinions on the legality of the Mark Bitenc concession. I've already said that in the beginning. However, it cannot be said that all these legal opinions are in fact as good. It's hard to say if they're all as good, if they're so different. Very different. These opinions are so different that they are difficult to evaluate and put on the same denominator. Just give me a moment to find the other readings. Some legislation has actually been moved from 2005 to the next period. I have two things to say here, especially for three laws. The Law on Patients' Rights, the Law on Mental Health and the Law on Long-term Care. The Law on Mental Health, as you know, has been in preparation for more than a decade, but the profession has never been able to unite on this law. I must say that we have been able to achieve this merger in the field of the Mental Health Act in September of this year. In September, the profession agreed to the Mental Health Act, which is now in place. There are only some other legal dilemmas that need to be resolved and the law will be ready. The second thing is the Patients' Rights Act, which you just told me was that I couldn't make it. This law is one of the most difficult laws that we can ever, at least from my own realm, prepare. A law that was drawn up in the previous term and which was somehow brought in, which had an attempt to bring Parliament this year. They're exactly the same. Of course, this law did not go through any public debate. We have prepared a public debate on this law and introduced this public debate into the law. Despite this public debate, there are still a number of problems, both by the medical profession after the public debate. Once again, after a public debate, as well as by the legal profession. And now we are coordinating these additional opinions and we want to draw up a law that will be good. Not a law that will be brought in just to be adopted, but that will work and that will give patients real security, protection. The problem is, of course, that this law does not foresee any significant financial consequences within the insurance company. Of course, these are problems. It requires a lot more engagement and much more work than ever. That's why the Law on Patient Rights, once again, is one very difficult law. But I think we're in the final stages. The Long-Term Care Act is a law that is one of the most socially-written laws in Europe. This law guarantees equal rights to provide for all insured persons. Even those who are not in the homes of older citizens. Because now there is one big difference between one another and the other, as far as their rights are concerned. We want to align these rights with this law in the future. However, we need some financial resources to do so. Some funding is needed for this. We need to agree on how to get these funds. So, once again, the law is in preparation. Request for certain financial resources to be agreed upon in the future. I think we will. Here we will have to find some consensus, even at the level of the government, that we will actually realize this law. This is a law that will be one of the most socially oriented laws in our territory, not only with us, but also with Europe. But the drug law is a special story. When we deal with one group of doctors, there's a problem with the other. In short, there are even worse problems than other laws, but this law is also in the final stage of coordination and will be ready for public hearing or presentation in the government. Mrs Zalokareva asked me when we were going to introduce cervical cancer vaccination. See, on November 22nd he passed, three weeks ago or something like that, a little more possible since he was supposed to get proposals on the table to change these instructions or this program. In Slovenia, self-vaccination is already possible in doctors outside the program. That's possible, I assure you again, that's possible. There's no reason why a doctor wouldn't do that. Ever since the expert side of the case has been confirmed, it's been possible since then. However, we will introduce this into the programme next year, at the beginning of the year, now immediately in January. But once again, it's a self-sustaining part. When will we introduce payment by a health insurance company for this vaccination, but of course this moment cannot answer you with a date. This depends on both the profession and the financial possibilities. In any case, I'm sure that's necessary. On my part, I will do everything we can to be successful in this area. Instead, however, we will have to move something else, which will not seem so important to us, to a later date. You can't print money any more than it was back in the old days. One more word about vaccination against this human papilloma virus. In the field of vaccination is actually the decisive institution, our tertiary institution, the Institute for Health Protection, where there is also an expert group to make recommendations for the vaccine against human papilloma virus. And members of this committee are experts in oncology, gynaecology, infectology and epidemiology. The group will make recommendations on how the vaccine should be used in us and will monitor the effects of the vaccine in the future. Of course, there are many other problems, not everything is as simple as it may seem to medical laymen. Such recommendations, which are of a professional nature, are not confirmed by me as Minister. Once again, the HPV vaccine is already available in Slovenia. Doctors who are qualified to do so can use it and are already being vaccinated by individuals. Its use shall be decided on the basis of indications and in accordance with the provisions of the marketing authorisation and on the basis of the assessment that such vaccination is beneficial to the patient. The annual vaccination programme, which is prepared on the basis of the proposal of the IVZ every year, and I also accept it, represents the country's organised activities for the control of communicable diseases, which will also include organised activities for HPV vaccines for 2007. As regards the transfer of funds from the budget to the health checkbook regarding the payment of secondhand workers and trainees, I must say that I do not see the need for such a major alarm in this area. Here is one measure that will compare secondary and paid trainees with other healthcare workers. There's no difference. I don't understand why it was even necessary to pay secondhand and interns in the way that it was now in force. And I'll say something else. Also, the fact that it is now from the state budget, that it is a burden on the insurance company, will leave the money in the health system. The budget of the Ministry of Health is not something that would be used elsewhere. This money will still be used for health care, for patients, for their needs, possibly for investments. For everything that's necessary. And the money on the health insurance company is, of course, provided from the funds that you have already mentioned. These are savings due to lower wage payments. And these funds are at some level that are substantially above the level needed to pay the second-graders. And because of that, I repeat, patients, patients will not be deprived of anything. On the contrary, we have prepared a number of measures that will further increase the funds and thus enable it to reduce waiting periods and extend the programme in the coming year. That is said, in this case, of course, it is also misleading. As far as the Regulation on the Prices of Medicines is concerned. The Regulation on the Prices of Medicines, which has now been in force and which you are attacking, is a regulation that you have adopted in some previous period. This Regulation is indeed not good and we have a new Regulation to enter into force on 1 February 2007. I'm talking about the Regulation on the Prices of Medicines. This Regulation is prepared and will allow for substantial savings in the health register. However, it is a certain problem for manufacturers and importers. That's what I think we're all about. But we will work together to solve these problems, and in this way, we will make a substantial contribution to increasing the funds available to the health insurance company. And these resources will be used both for new medicines and especially for expensive biological medicines, which we certainly need in the future. I wouldn't talk about waiting periods again. See, there have been various indications that the waiting periods in this presentation show unrealistic data. Of course that's not true. The data of the insurance company and the ministry indicate a marked reduction in waiting periods, those waiting periods, which are in the framework of our checks. And such reviews, such as the number of guided or reviewed waiting periods, have been going on all the time since nothing has changed from the previous mandate to the current one. We took exactly the same group of interventions and found such and such results. You won't, I hope you're saying here that the waiting period for heart surgery has not been reduced, that it hasn't been much shorter, for example, for coronarys and heart dilation. I don't know why you mentioned, if I understood you correctly, that there was no shortening of waiting periods for gray dark, for magnetic resonance. Everything has been cut short, and waiting periods for hernia surgery, for gallbladder operations, for all those things that we're just evaluating and running in statistics have been substantially reduced. However, waiting periods have not been reduced for some orthopedic operations, where I have repeatedly pointed out that there are also some other subjective problems, and not for us that we cannot yet manage these things as we would like. But we're also on the right track here. But what you are saying is that this does not cover all, say, outpatient checks, because here we have taken 12 of the most problematic things to assess, for the same collection as you took in the previous term. What is a problem and what we need to solve in the future, as far as waiting times are concerned, is that it will no longer be necessary to wait for checks in some specialised clinics. But there are some problems here, and I hope we've cut them down by now, and we'll do even more. Remember, in 2000, I introduced myself when I was the minister of triage outpatients for the past few months. We started triage outpatients in 2000. When there was a switch at the Ministry, these triad outpatients laughed, and these triad outpatients are crucial for reducing waiting hours for specialist activities. And that is why we will build much more control over this in the future. Here I promise, of course, this is not possible in a short time, because it may not even seem to anyone that two years are a short time, it is not possible to arrange all the things that have accumulated in health care in the last few years that I do not know how many years. As far as the single waiting list is concerned. We're setting up this system of single waiting lists. All operators within this public health network, including private individuals, will be included in the system. These will be sent to the system three times a year to start. The system is set up to allow the screening of the waiting ones, so that the list will be cleared in terms of double or more waiting entries, including the deceased as it used to be, and those who have already performed the procedure while waiting. Access to the single waiting list will be enabled via the website and will show the length of the waiting period for each intervention according to the operators. However, the operation of the system is foreseen in early 2007 and will be complemented and improved. I am sure that this system cannot already be 100% at the beginning, that it will have certain corrections in the future, but always with good purpose, that patients will be able to request some tests when they see what kind of waiting line is at the individual clinic or hospital. Now you're talking about some long waiting hours at the Clinical Center. All these waiting periods have also been substantially reduced in the Clinical Center in recent times. But even if these waiting periods remained the way they used to be, patients could quietly go into surgery or surgery or have a look anywhere in Slovenia where waiting periods are shorter. And that's not gonna happen. So in Slovenia it is possible today, even if in Ljubljana there is accidentally a long waiting period for any review, such as some time for magnetic resonance, to go to magnetic resonance in any place where they have magnetic resonance, and you can be there in a very short time. But also this is not true, even for magnetic resonance we have now significantly reduced the waiting period in Ljubljana, especially when a new magnetic resonance apparatus was purchased. So much is possible in answering some of the dilemmas that have arisen and some questions. But I'll get involved later and answer other questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. I'm sorry, I didn't see. Would you like to do it on behalf of the proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I thank the Minister for a very comprehensive response, almost one hour, but I would like to replicate, repeat or reawaken some things. I very much welcome the answers you gave in relation to "you've prepared", "you'll be ready" or "it's done". Waiting lists, you say the national programme is ready. With regard to the Regulation on Medicinal Products for Medicinal Products for Human Use, you said there was a change to be made. With regard to laws, the protection of patients' rights, mental health, the health network, they should also be prepared. Why, Mr. Minister, do we actually observe all this activity only after we have put in the interpolation? That's when an incredibly intense event began. The concessions law also began to be written and prepared in September and so on. Why was it necessary for you to start preparing all of this, because because of the unaltered rule that you are making, because it is your document, it is an act that you yourself accept, without Parliament, at any time, every day. Why did you just make this rule now, and this year we lost 2 billion tolars? Why was the Law on Patient Rights, with which patients would somehow be protected in this transitional age of transition and this mass award of concessions, not before this year to be protected? And you knew all of this yourself and realized that I told you this, because at the beginning of your term you promised all of this within one year and even placed it in 2005. Of course, these laws were then postponed to a later period. This is the fault, and you're late here, and there's been damage. And you're responsible for that. As far as First Health Assistance is concerned, you say you have issued a work permit and they only have this permit for primary health care. Through health, they were also granted a secondary health care permit and another one with the Patient. This is combined in the PZA. But, Minister, it was all written in March. Today is December. PZA still collects 5,500 tolars from people’s pockets every month. I'm sorry. I'm sure in the opposition, we're not the ones to stop this, obviously illegal activity. For this you are, for this is your government, for this are your inspection services, for this are agencies operating within the government, as special bodies. It's all up to you. Alert, act, be active! The opposition warned of that. The media wrote in March. Nothing happened. They're still in business. You say that those on waiting lists or waiting lists who do not want to be placed on waiting lists should submit their applications to the Ministry. Today, all those who monitor this transmission are invited. If you're here, they didn't want you on the waiting list if you didn't get the date, send your complaint to the Ministry. Is that the way? Maybe. You might get choked, I don't know. We were told of cases every day when this happened. Of course this is not the way, people complain to the ministry because something is happening, of course, then the problem will come back on track. You smiled a little and told me we weren't supposed to talk about antibiotics. It's true, you have the advantage and you're a doctor, I'm just a patient and a citizen and a hospital alone and there. But I wasn't talking about antibiotics. I read what someone else said, what Dr. Martin Toth said. And he said it happens so that patients don't do lab services, but instead write the most expensive antibiotics. That you won't think that I feel capable enough for these things, that's the thing that was written and published at dinner. And that's his conclusion from his rich experience, and I'm sure it's true. Of course, with regard to Medicor and the granting of this concession. First, I must say, Mr Minister, that it would be good, because this was an increased programme, introduced in 2003 by 230 new heart operations, to say, however, that perhaps the waiting period is also due to this measure by some small degree and that everything was not done later. This was an additional programme for which the tender was accompanied by the whole of Slovenia. I'm sure more or less all people knew this was happening. Indeed, the invitation to tender was only for the broadcasting of premises. However, a call for an extended heart surgery programme was made at the Institute of Health Insurance. And this invitation was made so that they first found out whether they could do it in Ljubljana or could do it in Maribor, they found that no, so a call was made later. Then the premises were inspected. If Dr. Metka Zorc, who built this center, was here today, I would tell you that she is outraged that you are exposing her as someone who is not suffering the most through all the professional and most serious verifications that have come to this. I think a lot of things could be said by my colleague, Secretary of State Dorian Marsich, who led this process, if I'm well informed, to let you know. Dr. Zorchev talked about the multi-dimensional 20 studies she had to submit and compete with. Last but not least, two candidates, the famous Dr. Klokočovnik, who will now apparently become mayor, and the Center or the Medici Institute, have appeared for this program. And in the committee that reviewed the expertise of these two competitors, three were independent foreign experts. Mr. Minister, any of this could be said that you had concessions to Dr. Mark Bitenc in the event of an invitation to tender. Foreign experts, room service? Dr. Marko Bitenc was only looking for the premises after he got the concession. Prove it, I've got the papers. Earlier in your document it is said that it is his duty to do so only in suitable rooms, it says. And only later did he ask himself, and of course now he's doing these things in Isola. With regard to nursing homes, you say that your relationship is not demeaning. I cited in the introduction your statement that you said that they survived the form of the organization, the skeleton, and also here I must say that it says that the healthcare home is as a basic unit in contravention of new concepts. Last but not least, whoever listened to us today could at least have found out in your introduction, which you also had written, that you did not find one positive word about a health home. Not a single one. Now, yes, in the morning of the written answer nothing. And of course this is the best answer, what is your view of health homes. Moreover, here is a statement from Radio Slovenia that you made in March 2006 and in which you said that because the municipalities oppose the award of concessions and there are rigidities here, I do not know for what reasons, you said, we will or are thinking that the award of concessions at this level would take over until the region or the state was established. Because the congregations are not obedient enough, some congregations do not grant concessions according to your expectations, so you or regions will take over. Regarding HPV and vaccination. It is not true that if we have read the same newspapers today, then these media outlets today say that they are medicines, that they are trained doctors and that you have a letter to allow this medicine to be listed. This means that vaccination is not arranged for us. That's what the Journal says. Or, I'll say, this information is wrong and can be vaccinated. The doctor’s statement is that, of course, they have everything, even for self-payers at the moment, because the medicine is not yet on the list to which you should list it. You said next year. I must say that on behalf of those who expect it, I hope it will be as soon as possible. Mr. Secretary, as soon as possible. And don't argue that there's no money, but if you found the money and you gave the helicopters to strangers right away, they caused about 300 million higher costs. If this money were to be put into these vaccinations immediately, the users would be very, very pleased with me. You say you awarded all the concessions in accordance with the same procedure as before. I already said in the morning introduction that something has happened in the middle of something, Mr Minister, we have entered the European Union. We are also subject to the acquis of the European Union. And obviously you don't want to hear all of the many lawyers, in the morning I listed them who warned you, including the Medical Chamber, Fides, I'm correcting myself, the Medical Chamber has no comments, including the Fides who want transparent, who want public invitations, who want a concession law that wants a network that is not, and who want it equally can enter this award of concessions. Right, but that's what my son who goes to law school taught me right now is a dynamic thing. And don't talk, I do what everyone does before me. It is a dynamic matter, and if you want me to read it to you now, you yourself have said when your programme is presented, a way of awarding concessions must be arranged, it must be made transparent and also arranged through public tendering. No, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u31	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u32	At least now I hope it's not just us talking, but I still have to answer. Of course, many of the activities you attributed to the interpolation did not start with interpolation. You can't write laws in one month, you know, the law's been written for a long time, and it has nothing to do with interpolation, not roughly. The rule we write about medicines prices has nothing to do with interpolation. The regulation began to be written in the month of August of this year. So I think it's really a bit of a hair draw, but it can also be such an explanation if you want to have it, which you keep, but it's not real. The damage caused by laws that have drifted a little apart would have been said to have been difficult to assess due to different coordinations and improved legislation in preparation. However, I would like to compare it with the damage that occurred in the previous term when there was no system law for four years. This comparison might be interesting when we are talking about damage. But I don't think there's any damage, things are settled in some levels, and they're settled. As far as all patients are concerned, if they don't come in line for any operations or interventions that they can then apply at the Ministry, of course this won't be true, but it will be necessary to find out where the patients don't register. And that's what they said if you didn't get the date. Then, of course, it would have to be reported anywhere, whether it was me, but it would have been even more appropriate if it had been the management of the institution. I would not now talk about some of the appointed independent experts, who have also been named by name. Now Toth and Chesen, I don't know if they're independent. That's hard to say. But I don't think so. You think they are, I don't think they are. Now it's Medic. Medical is a very interesting story. I know her, I think she's more than all of you here since I wasn't at the Ministry. That invitation to tender at the Health Insurance Office in 2003 was the same invitation to tender as today for the allocation of programmes. And Dr. Bitenc works in these rooms. He works in the same spaces as Medico. He's the one who rented a place in Medico. It's okay, because they're being used even more. Of course, we do not need a call for foreign experts like this. It's a waste of money out the windows. Before that, there was a talk about how many dollars or euros had been thrown abroad, and some Australians, and I don't know where, in short, some place abroad, and none of that was the result. None of this is the result. If that was the result, I'd be very happy, but unfortunately it's not. Where those millions are, it would be good to see them. As far as health homes and their role as the only basic cells for basic health care are concerned. That's not true. I didn't say health care wasn't the base cell. It's easy, but it's not the only one, and he's not the only one with the business. The operator of the activity is thus a doctor. As far as the award of concessions and proposals in the new law is concerned, I must say that we have in fact noted the marked inequality between the individual municipalities in the possibility and accessibility of patients and also in the award of concessions. There are two places in Slovenia that are, I don't know why, but in any case said, they are Ljubljana and Maribor. There are terrible problems here. I don't know why, I don't quite understand it, but in any way the concession to get in Ljubljana is harder than winning the main win on Lot because of the city, not because of me. It's a matter of the congregation. And because of this inequality, there is a desire for these things to be equal. And the bill will also say, in the bill, that no one will say again that it is a law, the bill will say that it is possible after a certain period of time if the municipality is not willing to participate in the award of concessions, this possibility will be acquired on the basis of a prepared network by the region or by the state, but in 2008, this is practically the second year, this will be the region. And I think, wherever I've been in Slovenia, wherever I've talked to municipalities like this, except in Ljubljana and Maribor, there's a special problem here, but wherever I've talked to municipalities in Slovenia so far - I've been, you have to believe me, in a very large number of municipalities - they've been willing to listen to this idea everywhere, so that concessions for the primary level in the future will also be shared by regions in the first phase. I don't think it's anything wrong. But it's Demagosko to scare the municipalities and the mayors into taking something from them that's their right. We're not gonna take this, we're gonna make a deal, then we're gonna be able to make this happen later. This would bring the individual congregations into line with each other. What's not now. I don't mean any centralisation here or any such changes that would hurt, especially patients. I've already talked about the EU, about that law. There's nothing clear there. Once it is clear, we will decide on the basis of this court decision. About Fides. Fides had a lot of good ideas as a medical union. One of these is also about these group practices, which should have, where private activity could then be organised within Fides. But that's just one idea that I'm not very fond of. For me, the system is better than envisaged by the award of concessions at the primary level and, above all, by these free professionals at the secondary level. As far as the helicopter is concerned, it was a cancellation, practically to suspend the activities of the Ministry of Defence in the field of the transport of patients, as well as the Ministry of the Interior. In fact, the project was previously piloted, as it's called, which means it was an experimental project. And this project was completed by the end of 2004 and 2005. That's when we decided to go into a serious project, not pilot, not experimental. On this basis, we have decided to do as has now been done by the government's regulation to leave the organization of this operation to the Automotive Association of Slovenia, which has done so well. And it's working. Since December 1st, we have been working and we haven't hired any special foreigners yet. On the other hand, the matter needs to be addressed with other eyes. In the previous period, when the Department of Defense or the police helicopters did this, we had a number of difficulties in carrying out our work. I must say, it was always necessary to equip the helicopter for every year. If you imagine what that means, then it's a huge waste of time. Now this helicopter was also designed for other activities, not just rescue; if it were just for that, it would still be possible. It was also designed for transportation and all the other things the military needs. That's why we decided on a possible slightly more expensive way, but for a helicopter that will be immediately available, which will be available at all times and which will be adequately equipped for the transport of wounded and patients at that time. And I don't think there's anything wrong here. We just want to bring patients closer and shorten the intervention time. And you have to believe that I know this area very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. A colleague of Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I suggest we go from Domžal to Sevnica. Perhaps there is a slightly different story, and even the newspapers write slightly differently, even some of today’s addresses are Private Concessions far from the wild privatisation of health care. These too are today’s newspapers, which probably also have something exactly written and said. I would focus on things that I might know better than the mayor, but also as a user of these services, and not least, because I have a health worker at home, maybe I know a little more because I'm monitoring these things. First of all, private concessions are no wild privatisation. This is an expression that certainly does not belong here, aware that the health system in each country is one of the most important, because it touches every citizen as soon as possible, and this is certainly an exceptional and important concern of the state as such to take care of these tasks. There are 25% of private doctors in Slovenia, which means that this progresses slowly. At the end of 15 years is an old country, even in this area has made some positive changes. I'm sure the private doctors, the concessionaries, are obviously the target of some attacks today, but that's not it, because some of them are obviously complaining about this system. Last but not least, this is not the first task of the minister, but this story is primarily a matter of the local community, the congregation. The municipality is the one who grants concessions at local level. And, of course, how it is awarded, under what conditions, what it writes in the contract, for what purposes, of course, is another matter. I think that public and private health control here is the same, believe me, it's the same and very strict. I say this from my own experience because I have a concessionaire at home. Another time. Criteria or surveys that show that patients are satisfied with both private and public physicians for sure. And if one and the other didn't have patients, then we wouldn't be able to carry out our mission. I think that this is nothing wrong and it is right that we also have such concessionaries who are carrying out their mission, who are in some way trying to please our citizens, our patients, and I think they are more than successful at this. We'd be talking about wild privatisation if we were selling health homes if we were selling offices if we were selling equipment if we were selling land. But as I know it, no one sells these things. This is the property of a congregation or local community. Health care homes as the primary level of health care have certainly been invested in rehabilitation, both health care homes and equipment, in recent times, not to mention hospitals. However, I am pleased and pleased that the story has finally moved and that, according to my assessment, the most important thing is that the Oncology Institute finally gets its image in the Slovenian space, because it was ashamed of Slovenia, of citizens, and especially of those who work there, and of patients. And I'm happy with that. The same goes for the pediatric clinic, but things are moving slowly. Nobody wants to talk about it like it doesn't matter, like it's some other thing. That is why I am deeply convinced that there is certainly no such thing as savage privatisation and cannot be. I am convinced that this is good for Slovenia, that there will be more concessionaires in the future, under conditions that the local communities will conclude with future concessionaires at the level of primary health. And that seems like a positive step to me. However, I believe that everyone is not happy with everything and that health homes across Slovenia are also different, we have large, small, very small, and are probably very specific from the case to the case. But I am talking about my case, my practice and our signing of concessions. In the contract we have very clearly defined the terms and conditions under which we grant the concession to the private, and this also respects them, executes them, pays the rent and all that in the common areas of the health house that we have in our space. And I think that both the concessionaires and the visitors or the patients of this house are satisfied. So I think that, after these years of action in this area, there are steps that have been taken. But it's never so good that it can't get any better. Therefore, I think it is our common concern to do more in this extremely sensitive area, such as health, to invest more resources in this area, so that there will certainly be more quality services. But here it is that there was never enough money for health, even today it is gone, and I'm afraid it won't be here tomorrow. However, to some extent we can also be compared with European countries in this area and pay sufficient attention to our health, because we all knock on such or different doors of our infirmary or hospitals as soon as possible. If we went to the privatisation of the Slovenian economy, and it seems successful, 5.6% of economic growth is a successful story, Slovenian, why public health would be something else here. After all, we do not find warm water here, which is what Europe has already discovered before us. That is why we are walking along this path quite rightly and patiently, that in the meantime something may not go as we would like, but it is also a fact, perhaps there are some bad experiences in certain areas. However, I argue that there is certainly no wild privatisation in the field of concessions or concessions in Slovenia, which I believe is difficult to prove today. Although today’s debate is likely to provide some benefit. Together in this Parliament, led by the Minister and the Secretary of State, we will listen to stories about what should be, which at last may also benefit our citizens, patients, patients who visit such and different health houses in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u35	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! Because I am a Primorec myself, and I come from Primorska, as well as my colleague, the Secretary of State, I would like first words, if I may say so, of constructive criticism to this particular area. Hospitals in Sežana, Isola and Šempeter are in the same condition as they are. I believe that the Secretary of State would also like to do more than he can do, but I do not understand this fact, because with the resources at his disposal, at least negative trends in these environments could be halted. We know Isol Hospital is before the break-up. In Sežana, we also had the opportunity to host a minister who himself said that he would not want to work as a doctor in such a hospital. And Schempeter is no more favourable. Of course, it is not possible to understand this, although we can see from the media that waiting periods are shrinking in specific areas, it is not possible to commend the fact that we do not have an adequate cancer clinic today. And these are exactly two segments that are the most sensitive in patients sentenced to death and the youngest. Look, I have before me a work or article from Del that says that at the end of January 2007, a 12-year-old agony will be issued to buy the necessary equipment worth 5.6 billion tolls to plan the equipment of the pediatric clinic. I mean, the minister himself estimates in this letter that he can expect complications as well as in so-called affairs with the operating tables. I do not think that these matters should be perceived in Slovenian society. These are problems that limit already to the extreme limit of reason, and I wonder if we are talking about some of our negligence dying, where is the responsibility? Of course, when we talk about how some things can also be improved by cross-border cooperation, in fact cross-border health care, there is a perfectly justified fact here, the claim that we have done nothing in this area. I want to speak mainly in the context of what our space offers. I'm sorry that the ICU, formerly, is present, because we don't know how it's going to go forward, that she's not here right now. She has invested quite a bit of power and will in perhaps just introducing a model that would be useful for the All-Slovenian shit that has hospitals along the border. Unfortunately, too, because of the lack of cooperation with the Ministry, this practice has not been achieved. Nor can the court function if it does not have appropriate case law or refers to judicial practice. And here we've done too little. Of course, we cannot go beyond the fact that the movement to preserve public health reminds the Minister that it is a long and far-reaching concession. Maybe these eyewitnesses are justified. I wouldn't lose my word if the minister could also say that he sees healthy competition in this. That's right. Maybe some people are afraid of that, too. However, I would be very critical of the fact that in those segments where they want to introduce attributes in cities, and among these attributes we also count hospitals, the Ministry does not fully allow this. I'm talking about Sejano. Look, here I have a number of Members' questions, initiatives that I've addressed to the Minister, because on some things we've moved, I'm going to say dead from a dead spot, but that's not enough. It's still detectable vegetation, essentially dying on meals. The Sežan hospital introduced two new programs of spaleotherapy, which is a unique health programme in Slovenia, and in fact a dialysis centre, which has also come to life with the help of the Ministry, but is drowning in debt. And not by their own fault because they were doing a certain amount of work because they were doing too much of the work planned, imagine, too much of the work planned. There were more patient care than planned. As this is not paid, because there is no revaloration paid in rising prices, they have problems. This should simply not be the case in Slovenian medicine. It's nonsense. I think that we all pay enough in this cash register and that if any service is properly provided, the hospital must also pay for it by the State or the relevant system. I would like to point out something else, such as another unacceptable case that is emerging. Orthopaedic offices, which are not close to the centre of this activity, for example in Zasavje, are usually a self-paying office in the first review. Experts are coming from Izola to Laško, but patients have to pay the rules first check, and then the doctor decides whether they will actually order this patient to a hospital for hospitalization or another examination, but the first check is usually self-paid. And without exception, there are pensioners, there are single mothers here, they're basically unemployed and so on. That's not right. In these practical cases, I would like to say that the waiting species are extremely long, that in fact the Minister himself was such a great critic in the work of the former Minister of Health, and that he had the opportunity to try himself once in this job. All these experiences that have already been gathered, seen, and any problems that have already been known could be solved in a short time. This is a criticism that goes to the Ministry, and perhaps this is why the Minister himself is not fully responsible. I won't judge because I don't know this matter in detail. But what we Members of the National Assembly bring out of the field, I think we are well represented in the field of all of Slovenia, and more or less we all want to have a case in this area, is critical. In a word, it's critical. That someone who is sick or has a heart condition or a cancer must wait for treatment is not acceptable. I'm sorry, but that's really not acceptable. Not to mention asbestos patients. Asbestos is present in our field, not completely eliminated as such, nor from production, nor are asbestos patients adequately treated. I'd be glad if we could talk about these things differently, but these are facts. This is how we cannot talk in the future, nor can we develop this important activity that we all want, and older and younger. Health care in Slovenia is not at an envious level, it should be better. Services should be better in themselves. And since I come from the sea work, I would especially appeal to the Minister to find the possibility to resolve this part of the hospital system that is truly in disintegration in Primorsk, I speak for Sežana, Isola and Šempeter, and to take care of this part of the hospital system once and for all, and to stop arguing as children, whether we will buy operating tables or not for cancer patients who are being treated today in the stable and for the youngest part of our society, these are children. I don't think that if we can't do that, then we don't need strategic military equipment and we don't even need to be in NATO and even less in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u37	Dr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u38	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister, allow me to begin my thinking directly with the question. I wonder if you're able to tell us here today the five mistakes you've made during your two-year ministry. I am interested in this answer to this simple question for two reasons. First of all, because you and your client were a very loud critic of the actions of the former minister and former ministers at all. Before the elections, you promised, among other things, that you will "swiftly address health weaknesses and that patients and patients will be given very quickly equal access to health, a transparent public health service system will be established, close to users, strict regulation of quality assurance and accessibility of health services, etc. The second reason for my request lies in the fact that today, when we listen to you, in fact, others blame all the shortcomings you still find in the health system. In answer to the first question, I categorically write, saying, "Opts are unfounded, misleading and I reject them entirely." At the same time, you say, again, "This is pure demagogy, which I am told. The obvious are political purposes and what is similar." By combining the two personal positions presented to you, a person gets a feeling, and it is very important in Slovenia that you are significantly more effective in criticizing the work of previous ministers than in addressing the inadequacies that our system has clearly recorded. The logic of your approach to politics, to public affairs is what concerns me the most. In today's presentation here in front of the National Assembly, you have thus performed a very interesting mental evil. You started by saying that the health system couldn't be set up overnight. Anyone can agree with you. You continued with the thesis that the system worked well. It would seem to me that at the level of logical implications it would be appropriate to continue with a sentence that would say something like this, "for this I owe my thanks to all the ministers and ministers who have run this department before me and allow the system to function well, and today I am presenting to you those points of system upgrade that I am taking and I will confirm that they will function differently and better in the future." But we don't hear this order, this sequence of logical executions, but you continue from the fact that the system works well, that it can't be fixed quickly, in the claims that the ruling coalition, especially the famous LDS, which is a suitable target for all these attacks, has been doing damage for 12 years and has left behind a snag. Something doesn't make sense here, Mr. Secretary. As long as we deal with politics this way in this country, the discussions will be as easy as they are and they will have no real meaning. Dr. Katja Boh, Dr. Bozidar Volch, Dr. Jereb, Dr. Keber, all of them, in my opinion, were fortunate enough to be able to see most of them from within, trying to build the system in the right direction. Whether they have always been successful or not is a rhetorical question. Clearly they weren't. For they were all human beings and did not come from an environment that considered itself perfect and could not even think that they had made any mistake. That is why I would think, Mr Minister, that it would not suggest making a mistake by your boss, for whom, if I heard him discussing the economy of Slovenia twice again, I would believe that he would be nominated as Nobel laureate for economics. He and his Government have outstanding merits for economic growth in this country. Those who believe and declare it say that those before him have left behind burning places, somehow it does not have a particularly credible role when they try to explain that it is difficult to regulate the system. And I, believe me, believe me, believe me when you tell me. And when I listen to your discourse, I think it runs on two levels. One is very real, it is a ministerial discourse, with a sense of problems that someone who is trying to regulate the system has, while the other one is flying in the air in every direction and suddenly does not recognize any serious merit, nor does it have its own problems, and both are part of this system in which we live and also live in health. Let me tell you that, as a layman, I think about your situation today, this is not my area, but as far as I'm concerned, it seems to me that with the help of this Parliament as well, you have implemented a ready-made law on compensatory schemes, you have upgraded it here, and I would say that we can all be pleased that you have succeeded. It seems to me that you've built up a system of paying doctors' appointments to the benefit of doctors. You've done some maneuvering quite skillfully in front of other ministers, and I don't know if others can be so pleased with what you've done. You managed to shorten, if I understand correctly, waiting types for heart surgery, continue with accelerated investment that started, and I also have a feeling before you, I have been monitoring this in competition for money within the government and therefore I know it. I'm sure there are also purchases of magnetic resonance devices, and I could still find some sort of a thing of success. What you've chosen as your minister, but you're not the only one and the first minister who's been able to do anything in the field of health, and I'm happy to hear your answers, or 5 or 6 good things that Dr. Keber did, for example, as your predecessor. I haven't heard from you in such a discriminating field, you haven't said anything to me on this subject. If you can do this, if you can go this way, then I'll also make it easier for you to overlook some things that I think show that you don't control everything so perfectly. You fell into a very difficult situation that Dr. Keber faced before you, the famous shopping table. You probably know better today than we do here, how many interests are moving around there, how far away from the truth is that there is only a question of whether someone is corrupt or not. The fields of interest are so strong that they are important means that anyone who comes through there must be half an artist. But, look, Mr. Minister, before the elections it seemed that it was just a matter of pressure on the switch, and these things would be settled. After you really started dealing with it, it turned out that you almost had tears in your eyes, and you almost quickly accepted a gift that would cost you 500 million tolars. The whole of Slovenia has been raised for some time over the generosity of certain lobbying active in this area. Today, we all know that we must not be so naive, and fortunately, the President of the country has given this warning in due time, and I think that his warning has been given to anyone else, and I think it is right. I also think the whole story about concessions agrees with you Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, former ministers and also here most of us, that concessions are nothing bad, but you will probably have to agree with us that it is probably time that, once they have been introduced, when so many and so many have been granted to consider or not, I ask you here, you will have to know the answer to this, an indication of the law already regulates and prescribes what elements a contract must have, so that this concession will be in favour of patients and patients. Of course, doctors, it would be good for no one to change, they must have an economic interest in this and they must also feel better when they work, more free, more room for their own creativity have, but your interest must be primarily the interest of patients and patients, that is also ours. I'm already looking forward to the law that you've been predicting before, which you're going to build up this system with, and this is where you can talk if it doesn't look like there's been any mistake. If the case of Bitenc is legally questionable, but I agree that you always have arguments for and against in law, then that does not mean that those of you who have advised you to sign something on yourself are true, but those of whom Dr. Paulus spoke are wrong on themselves, that means that you should sit down and see whether these contracts can be upgraded or otherwise concluded and so on, in a bunch of other areas. This approach would be more expensive for me and it would seem to me that we are upgrading politics, political culture in the country in a different direction and then looking at waiting species differently. We cannot pretend that today there is no situation in which, if I want to go in the normal order through the system, it happens that I will wait 5, 7, 11 months, but if I pay for a perfectly legal way into the system, then this sitem will take me once in the same person at an extraordinary rate through all the treatment in the public part of the system. That's the way it is in this system. And it's hard for people to see. How do we solve this? For example, I don't know, but you are in a place where these questions need to be answered and this is the task of this minister, and I hope that there will be no next. But I believe that no one will ever imagine that a magic wand will fix these areas. I would like, Mr Minister, to admit to myself that you may have been more effective, more popular before the elections, too optimistic to promise quick solutions, but now you know and know all together that it is necessary to upgrade the system wisely, to listen to warnings coming from people and thus to give some credibility to your work and also to do Slovenian politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u39	Mr. Skull, please, please. Excuse me? On behalf of the motioners. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much. So, Minister, I would first draw attention to the discourse you're having with the National Assembly, and I'm sure it's not good in individual elements, but it expresses the predominant way to answer the ruling team whenever any question arises in this National Assembly. Our colleagues in positions are doing the same. Therefore, twice in a row we hear about the problems that Liberal Democracy has and how to treat them with interpolation. If colleagues in the Social Democratic Party had anything to do with this - I apologize - the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I know that even in the Social Democratic Party they do not share any special concerns about the situation in our party, but this does not matter very much for this discourse. Last but not least, there are partners in a number of matters, then of course we could also talk about the problems the Slovenian Democratic Party has with its exposed members. It's not like that today. If Mr Jazbec, who is so concerned about the situation with us, shed some tears behind Mr Hvalica, behind the situation that his two fellow Members have faced at this time in this group, and not least after a couple of former colleagues, who were also mayors of this party, then I would believe that this is about honesty, but it is not. Actually, why am I saying this? It's a diversion. That is why I am not really interested in what is happening here, but I would like to warn the Minister and colleagues that this manoeuvre is not good. If we ask the minister about certain things that are happening at the Ministry, then we do not expect him to say, for example, that because of us, because of you and your ideological predecessors there was no possibility of privacy, the law on the work of doctors, etc. Mr Minister, a lot of people slept over in the 1980s, a lot, but I can tell you that a group belonging to me at the end of the 1980s put in place an initiative for the Law on Private Personal Work, which also largely solved the problem or tried to solve the problem of private health. I can tell you that there is something else, and from this point of view, I would rather say that I do not remember those of your colleagues with whom we worked, that those who are so active now wear the flag, I will say, these initiatives after changes in health care. At the time, it was done by a medical company and its president. And the ZSMS was their great ally, Mr. Secretary. And if anyone has problems with ideology, then you have to ask who it is. Mr. Minister, you said you were leading, I'm going to say, really delicate talks and arrangements with the social partners. I doubt that. I doubt this because of all the reports we have been able to hear from this area. It is true that you are possible, and here you can be commended, under the influence of interpolation, to open a new round of agreements with the social partners. It is true that you have rejected this dialogue with both trade unions and employers. That's why there were, I'll say, problems with the famous writing of the laws you were talking about. Therefore, it is not unusual that the writing you claimed to be consistent with both employers and employees, that neither one was identified as one who was coordinated, nor the other. Mr Antauer, for example, said: "...the material we have now is inconsistent with ourselves, the reasons are not in accordance with the articles, the articles cited, which are not even in this bill of law in the explanations." And what was the issue in all of this? An out-of-work injury policy, a discussion of alcohol-induced injuries, and injuries in risky sports and so on. Not to repeat everything, but Mr Minister, in fact, in the manner of the Minister of State, you stopped the debate, let those partners wait, and at some point offered a clean slate with which no one, except the Government, was satisfied. Of course, the key question was where part of the obligations arising from these different procedures would be paid either from the state budget or from the health treasury. Mr Minister, your solution has gone against what employers have advocated and has gone against what the workers have advocated and has gone against what policy and other professional public have pointed out, which, by the way, you take credibility if anyone else signs under any other party. No one claims you're, I'll say, a troubled minister because you're a member of the SDS. You claim that individual activists are problematic because they are members of other customers who are not yours by chance. This is about double standards. Not long ago, in this Chamber, we listened to the Prime Minister of the Government, who explained the discharge of Minister Drobnik by explaining that the Minister does not have a hearing for social dialogue. So he can't find a language with the people he's talking to. That's what the people I talked about before were warning me about. Why does Prime Minister Janša have double standards? Why does Minister Petty Officer have to step down if he's not capable of negotiating and that's an argument, but if you can't do it, you don't need it? Or maybe it's because there are some secret meetings in the back that Minister Petty Officer threw in here, and Mr Janša waved his hand, if that's what this is about, I don't know anything about it. But Minister Petty Officer was famous for everything else, not then to lie. There are also problems, I will say, to the Prime Minister, when he faces allegations that he will offer the National Assembly another name for the reconstruction of the Government in the coming weeks, perhaps months, and that is what the entire NSI Group is talking about, and Mr Janša, the Prime Minister, refuses to do so. Trust who? Not to talk about your other colleagues, who also, by the way, will say, the need to keep in power forget what they said a few minutes ago. But if we didn't get too far from the problems that are at your ministry, the manners are very similar to those of you elsewhere, I would say that you offered us a topic yesterday that I can say is even better than what my colleague Grimes offered us when we were talking about Minister Simoniti and he just put it on a lie. If this is to be believed, yesterday, at the Pharmacy Chamber, they received a notice that from this point forward they are in your decree, an order, with your will the pharmacy is obliged to send each other information about which is constantly in conflict, and that is fourteen data. Notwithstanding the fact that in some specific disputes the Court found that the Mutual does not need all this information, despite the fact that the pharmacists with two other insurance companies were able to conclude an agreement and sign the contract and receive the payment requested. But this in itself may not be a problem for you, because you do not understand that there are limits to the laws. What's wrong with this decision is that you broke the law. You broke it on several counts. You violated it where you actually set the price in favour of the Mutual when it comes to the information to be provided by the Pharmacy Chamber or the Mutual Pharmacy. This is a problematic approach. You have also violated it in some other areas. You have gone far beyond your powers given to you by the laws of your area, and you have gone far beyond the limits imposed by the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Mr. Minister, why did you do this? Did you do this in a panic to show that you are holding things in your hands? But these kinds of moves, Mr. Minister, derail the rule of law. Just as a major blow was struck by Minister Mate in Ambrus, you have caused quite a number of difficulties in this area with your signature. Don't say I'm quoting any unpleasant people. I can read to you the opinions that Minister Lovro Šturm raised on these issues 14 days ago, where he says that such a type of decision as you later made is not admissible. Where it says that it is not possible to require any information which is not defined by the law past the Health Act. You did it. Why did you do that? Because you're willing because you don't care about the rule of law, because you're saying you want good insurance. You're not doing them well! If anyone's breaking the law, he's really working the whole country and the sick society. It's a condition that sociologists know a lot about. You basically broke the Personal Data Act. You've allowed the insurance company to look into data from which it can conclude on very sensitive personal data. Decisions can be diagnosed, and these are data that no one can be allowed to collect past the law. You did it. How can we explain this to each other? Because you can do anything because no one has to account. Mr. Minister, I expect a clear answer. If you do, otherwise I can bring you the opinion of Minister Šturm, I hope you have read it, where it counsels you, where it says that this is not possible either under the Health Act or under the Personal Data Protection Act. You did it because you went to some war with maybe the pharmacists because you made a deal with the insurance companies. But you have weakened the rule of law, Mr. Minister, and this is what we are talking about in this National Assembly. And if we're talking about who the volunteer is and who the democrat is and who respects something, then let's see what the consequences of your decisions are, not that you're talking about everything that happened five, ten years ago, and I don't know how many years ago. The ministers who ran the health department were, in other words, all of the Demos species, which you praised only in your performance, all in turn. No one has, I'll say, challenged it. To the best of their ability in Parliament, Members of all colours were drawn to them when necessary. And it was at the beginning of Dr Katja Boh, then for a long time the green minister Mr Volč, was Mr Jereb from SLS, it was you, and only then came Keber, which is why you think all the injustices in this world are happening to you. But where is this 12-year-old Kebra, if he performed in early 2001? We're not in 2012 now, Mr. Minister. He performed in 2001. And you're trying to convince the Slovenian public that LDS has been doing this all along, and I don't know how many years it's been doing this. This has been done by your colleagues, of whom I hope you will not speak so badly as you speak, about your predecessor, nor would this benefit your interpretation or your defense. But, Mr Minister, in the opinion of your Minister's colleague, Mr Sturm, you have violated at least two laws with this decision, and that would be enough to take a moment to consider whether or not ministerial rest is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u41	Mr. Jazbec, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Since I have been appointed, I think it is right to respond to the concerns of my colleague Školč, who is concerned about how my fellow mayors, who were once Members, are. Since I am still in regular contact with them, all I can say is that they are joyfully taking the lead, they were not elected to the National Assembly. But as for colleague Iv Hvalica, if there were not some that prevented him from enjoying a well-deserved peace, he was not given it. Because I was just about to say something else. I myself, in my opinion of the SDS Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u43	Fucker, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u44	also linked to the movement to preserve public health [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u45	Mr. Jazbec, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u46	Then in the second part where it was mentioned that the minister gave the decree to the pharmacy. It should be said that the Minister gave a decree, unfortunately, to one pharmacy, which is the Celje pharmacy, which does not respect the law or amendments and additions to the Health Insurance and Health Act and, of course, all the sub-legal acts, and several smaller pharmacists in Slovenia joined Celje in the last six months, and they have made it possible together that the compensatory scheme could not be implemented. Answer to colleague Gabru, who asked the Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u47	This will be answered by the Minister [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u48	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u49	Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u50	Let him mention at least five of the negative or positive things that his predecessor did. I would say that at the beginning of his term, the minister should use the option of tsunami, which has been mentioned many times by the Government, but it is not, and therefore data from the Ministry is leaking and interpolators have the opportunity to interpret and, in fact, some data are received substantially before the coalition's parliamentary groups, because the tsunami has not been used.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u51	You spoke, sometimes they said, in the voice of the minister, not on your behalf. Mr. Gaber, why did you pick up? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Allow me to thank the debater before me, of course, for explaining what is actually what drives him and his colleagues in the debate on health. Tsunami, they'd like to change, and they're a little sorry they didn't just mess with everyone. At the same time, I would apologize to him for needlessly explaining how he was in the SDS, and we are not particularly interested in that, but he did not notice that he was too interested in LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u53	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, I admit that I am not such an expert in health care as to master the details, so I will not discuss this here, but I would also like to talk about this interpretation perhaps a little differently, which we have not yet done today, and probably also someone will talk about it. On the contrary, the relationship to this interpolation has come to what the purpose of this interpolation, as indicated by the indications. In recent times, however, it has been very modern for the party that initiated this interpolation to write letters. And, of course, their president said in an interview that he felt bad that they did not interpellate Minister Drobnic in the party. Moreover, he said he was ashamed that they had not submitted it and that they would continue with the interpolation. That was Saturday. Well, yesterday they could have heard from an important representative of this party that he was surprised at such a position by the party's president, because it is clear that if they put an intervention against Minister Drobnič, Drobnič would probably be a minister because the coalition should defend him. So, what do I mean by that? This is a relation to this interpretation that we are witnessing to today and that we are discussing and providing data today. It is clear that the applicants have not submitted an interpretation because they would have intended to give the negative side or the wages of the minister's work in order to resolve it, but obviously to keep the minister, which is of course good. This was also confirmed yesterday in this statement. So it's a stated political manoeuvre of the opposition and the signatories of the interpolation to shoot at the government. And I would say that, in this case, they're obviously not shooting blind bullets, but with a purely ordinary pitch, and that this interpellation is a smoke screen to obviously hide the situation with someone else, maybe with the proposer. In doing so, it must be said that it is in the words spoken to mislead and create fear of this government, it is said, to the work of this Government and specifically to this Minister of Health, because corruption is the subject, in particular, of the breakdown of the system. Those words are very dangerous. There has been talk of clientelism, and above all there has been a lot of criticism about things that have already had some roots that have been bearded for a long time and haven't been created in two years since this minister. In particular, I'm going to give you an example that you won't tell me that I'm talking to myself. There was talk of the Rules of Medicines and it was said by the party that it was first signed under interpretation, why this Regulation is changing only now and why it did not change immediately. It's probably a little complicated. And probably when you're asleep, and if you have a good dream, then you probably don't just introduce a new drug code, so it'll be done right away. In addition, it is said that this regulation, because the Minister has not changed it, has caused 2 billion damage in these two years. However, I would like to remind you, because this rule is not from now on, from this minister, that he has been in practice for several years now, and it would be good to ask how much damage he has done since he was adopted five or six years ago, and to know who was the minister at the time. How much damage has been done since then, if it is now 2 billion in these two years. And now, for example, you know about 2 billion damages, but why did you back him up then, and then you didn't ask the Minister not to issue such a regulation at all. Now I don't know if we had anything to do with this in Parliament, I don't think so, because we don't have a rule of law, but maybe two years earlier we would have demanded that the rule of law be changed, but those two billion would not have been, and how many billions of damage had already been done by the time this minister took office. And there's something else. As the prime sin of this minister, it has been said, although this has been more detailed, it is necessary to wait for 1100 more days for knee surgery. Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, I did not hear that when this minister took office, these operations stopped. That would only be two years. That is to say, if three years is a waiting period, it is said that for one year before it had to be something, it is said that these waiting rooms have been good since before, if they are three years old. And I don't know why this minister should now answer that those waiters have been good for three years. As far as I know, they were cut short. But it's some inherited thing that can't be beaten blindly and shot with blind bullets or with a frat like I used to, after this minister. You need to see where the whole thing comes from. On the other hand, I would like to say that that statement made yesterday by one of your eminent representatives, why you have not filed an interpretation for someone else that you obviously do not want since the entry of this minister, because I am sure that you also do not know that this minister is doing well, what we may not all be satisfied with his work, you will say. I may mention only two things that you know, and that's why you probably don't want to give up, and that's why you've put in an interpolation because you know we're going to defend it. Like your representative said, I'd remind you of maybe two things. The first is that for many years the problem was clearly irradiated for cancer patients and then at one point everyone found out that they were 14 years old. They were only 14 years old, but no one knew before, ten years ago or four years ago, that they would be 14 years of age within a certain period of time. And then the whole calvary started with everything that's connected to it. It's mostly patients. Of course, there was an opportunity to drive patients abroad. You know what that means. This was one of the major health problems. And then, when this minister took office, there was once a chance to buy, I don't know, one, two, or three of these machines, the problem was solved. Don't talk anymore. But apparently this minister had to come and this government had to be able to solve it, and before that, it couldn't have been done. Why not? I'm not going down. There could be a thousand speculations. But the other case is the so-called operating tables. What's been going on here, and this, we already know here in Parliament, because we've had extraordinary sessions, and all that has to do with it. The facilities in which these operating tables were planned were built, the facilities were waiting, which was a very big problem at one point, and it must be acknowledged that all the tables together that we bought were relatively small change in the amount of all the money we give for health care. This is said to be probably not all about the operating tables, but something else. The tenders had to be repeated and as regards the tenders, this was a "never ending story" matter. We had to amend legislation, complaints again to disability. Well, after a miracle, the matter resolved again with this minister, of course, not on its own. And as far as I'm concerned, I can't be the best, probably all the operating tables are already in Slovenia. The vast majority are already assembled, and others are likely to be solved at any time, so that everything will be practically solved this year. But it took years and years, a bunch of energy that was invested in it, a bunch of, I'll say, the patient's ill will not to say anything else, but all of a sudden, this minister was able to solve it and it was possible to solve it. The only thing I would say, however, is that he did not immediately replace this invitation to tender commission or, in a specific case, the commission which is preparing calls for these cases, which I was referring to, for the operating tables and for the radiation apparatus. You should do this right now, completely. But I'm sure you'd be talking about personnel tsunamis, but none of these problems patients would have. They wouldn't be there because the calls would be better prepared, and I can blame this minister for not replacing these people. To conclude, I would say that perhaps I could resent this minister because he is not a wizard to solve in two years all the problems that have accumulated over all these long years. I can blame him for not being a wizard. To eliminate all these problems that have accumulated during the previous authorities. Whoever was the longest in power, we probably know that. Moreover, you do not want any changes to take place now. You want everything to remain the same, except that the system would work flawlessly, ideally, that there would be no waiting types, so that it would not be paid so there would be no replacements. And maybe I could blame the minister for not being a wizard. But something else would be difficult and obvious because, according to the statement, why didn't you write the interpretation for someone else, because then you would've defended him, and you wouldn't have given up, that is to say, you're not serious about interpretation anyway. That's why I won't support the interpolation because I'm sure the minister is doing well. And by putting in the interpolation, you've only proved that you're so sure. Because you think it's the role of the opposition to fire blind bullets sometimes, but your legitimate authority, so of course I won't support interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u55	Mr. Aleš Gulič, you have the floor on behalf of the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u56	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I must remind everyone that today, however, there is an interpellation about Minister Andre Bručan and that I think it is very annoying that we continue to listen to the interpretation of the interpolators. There's no need. I would, of course, expect colleagues from the coalition to praise the work of Dr. Andre Bručan, to be able to withdraw from all that he has prepared for good, but we continue to listen to everything else: stories about Liberal Democracy, about pre-election interpretations, about how things went wrong before, even though the results that Mr Bruč tells are the results of previous periods, so it is not surprising that he will then remain to Mr Bručan just that he boasts. At this time, I received a letter from a doctor by post here saying, "So from day to day, the number of health services that I and my loved ones have to pay out of my pocket and the Minister of Health is planning further reductions in social and health security through a new law governing compulsory health insurance. Patients who are financially able to do so behind the curve, through a private doctor, reduce the waiting period to some checks and interventions. Some doctors - concessionaires of patients do not even want to register on the waiting list after they have completed their programme paid by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and so on." About the species, Mr Minister, I will say so, of course they were for coffee, washing powder and chocolate at the time, but they were also said to be gone and that every day they are shorter, as they are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The House of Honor! In our country, all citizens and citizens are guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to social security and the right to health care among the most important. The Constitution also provides in Article 2 that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Sadly, though, things are quite different in everyday life. We have been facing the breakdown of the social state for some time now. Reliable and decent jobs are becoming increasingly rare, almost gone. Children's kindergartens are becoming increasingly difficult to access, so it is not surprising that the Free Child Protection Act has emerged in the parliamentary procedure. Although primary education is compulsory and should be fully financed from public funds, there is an increasing cost in family budgets. Not to mention expensive college and university education. They form elites, slowly and persistently, increasingly only from a wealthier social layer. Children from working and farming families find it increasingly difficult to get to university. More and more young lawyers and doctors come from only legal, legal and medical families. The liberalisation of health care, the degradation of health homes and hospitals, and the double distribution of medical concessions, also in this extremely sensitive area, lead us to commercialization and the profit-making of health care. This will gradually lead to increasingly difficult and expensive access to health services and health in general. In the article "Health between Public and Private", published in the Journal of Work, is mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar wrote that "wild privatisation and commercialization of health care cause severe remedial damage. Non-profit public health services are rapidly being broken down. Health care also lacks appropriate rules and standards, corruption, the high margins of the pharmaceutical industry and suppliers of medical technical devices, poor performance, poor supervision, wage balancing in public institutions, the reduction of human rights from public funds, reduced accessibility to health services and the like. The authorities are ruining health homes, even though many abroad envy them." That's what the mag wrote. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. In my opinion, among the more controversial are the so-called mixed concession-profit clinics. I give you an example: if today, as a self-payer, I would like to make an appointment next week, perhaps even earlier, this week. However, today I would have received a reply from the general physician’s guide to call again on 4 January between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. and to arrange for a review of February or March. That's the practice today. The area of dental care is of great concern. Many insured persons cannot exercise their legal right to dental care on the basis of compulsory health insurance, for a simple reason, because dentists both in public institutions and private individuals do not accept new insured persons, on the fact that many of them have not yet reached the average number of persons identified in dentists. The waiting lists are long, and many patients are left with no choice but to visit self - paying offices. This is not taken into account, however, by the contract, for dentists to receive financial resources which are agreed on full-time dental standards for the average number of persons identified. When the Ministry of Health and other signatories to the general agreement determine the value of dental work and financial programmes in proportion to the number and age structure of insured persons identified in a specific dentist, they will determine. The signatories to the general agreement have already entered this objective into one of the general arrangements in the past, but, as far as I know, a final agreement has not yet been reached. As one of the objectives, Mr Minister, you have also set yourself the task of regulating the public health network and ensuring equal access to services. So I ask you, in the end, whether you have already developed a criterion for how many residents should have one general doctor, pediatrician, dentist for children and young people, dentist for adults, gynecologist, orthodontist and other specialist activities. I'm also asking you what their dispersion would be. And another area, the field of occupational diseases. In this area, we only face asbestos diseases organised in Slovenia, and we have a number of problems here. Ten years have passed since the legal ban on the production and use of asbestos, yet we have discovered a new range of asbestos patients in Slovenian railways a few years ago. This is a still unresolved problem for residents living in the area of production facilities who have become sick of one of the asbestos diseases due to environmental exposure to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. Mr Minister, it is not only economic and today the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Situation is responsible for this area. To the same extent, this issue also touches your department, the Ministry of Health, so I ask you what you will do in the future in the field of occupational diseases and diseases due to the harmful environmental effects. Health in the vast majority of developed societies is also accepted in practice as universal value and human rights. The General Declaration on Human Rights states: "Everyone has the right to such a standard of living that guarantees him and his family health and well-being, including food, clothing, housing, health care and necessary social services, the right to protection in the event of unemployment, illness, working disability, widowhood and age or other inability to obtain life resources, due to circumstances independent of his will." Dear Minister, I am afraid that, with some measures, this Government is moving away from these universal values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u59	Mr. Germich, on behalf of the motioner. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Of course, first of all, I would like to make some clarifications concerning these remarks by Mr Minister concerning the use of money in the previous mandate for the preparation of the White Paper, and also Mr Marusic, who will definitely be able to confirm the indications. This is because it has been proven that the cost of printing the White Paper amounted to poor 7 million tolars in 2300 copies and that the writers and co-authors of this document did not actually receive any fees except for the study of income efficiency was paid to the specialist of the Faculty of Economics, while the funds you are most likely to be talking about are linked to a study which was targeted in the framework of the development project on the management of the healthcare system and, of course, has no connection with the White Paper of Health Reform. Why am I stressing this? Because it seems extremely important to me, because when you talk about all these weaknesses of the previous term, it seems very important to me to say that 33 laws have been passed in the previous term and over 300 sub-laws, and a number of measures have been taken that have saved health care, which has been successful in allowing the health department to operate positively today. You know this because it is for this study that the financing system in hospitals has been changed in the framework of the project on development of the administrative system, which has brought significant savings. To change the regulation of the prices of medicines, which have also brought significant billions of savings, this lawyer is also allowing us to continue this successful path today. Here, too, I would like to explain to Mr Petan, because I thought he wasn't exactly on the running side of what was going on. In the previous mandate, you know, Mr Minister, the rules and regulations of the previous period have followed exactly how to ensure that the rules are adapted as easily as possible to ensure that the price of the cost is guaranteed, i.e. for medicines and thus reduces the cost in the health treasury and, of course, today we can rightly ask why, of course, you are not following these trends and, given that you are stating that the prices of the medicines are changing very rapidly, we would also expect you to follow this trend and to change the rules of the Republic of Slovenia at an appropriate rate. Now, Mr. Minister, I would like to say the following. In view of the statements in your response to interpolation and in view of the statements you made today in the introduction and also later, my conviction is that you do not have a clear strategy on how to manage the health system and the development of the health system in Slovenia, and that there is a savage privatisation, that is, these two observations that go to your address after all of these activities remain. I'll try to argue with them. First of all, you are evaluating or conducting a research that is very high in Slovenia and Slovenia’s health system. Very high, then. After the efficiency of the funds used, Slovenia is ahead of all EU countries and has even been first. And now we look at what is a priority for you, so we are among a number of European countries here in the first place, and when you talk about what your priority will be, you say the following. We have set ourselves the task of ensuring further improvement in this sense of cost-effectiveness. This means that the observation is in the interpretation that of course you have not defined a priority, talking about, of course, that you do not have a clear strategy, because then you are trying to justify your reasoning somehow with this further, that one of the biggest problems in public health systems is a low level of economic efficiency. On the one hand, we have a public health system, which, according to the survey, is an example of how effective we are in the use of resources, and then you say that this is one of your priorities, because this is a weakness of the public health system. Of course, there is some consistency and logic in the interpretations, but of course it also talks about it and raises doubts about the priorities you set yourself. And since you do not have a priority program of the healthcare plan, at least you have the power to conclude that, given that it is not available in two years, you are talking about a draft that we do not know, you are talking about a series of experts who have prepared it, about whom we do not know less or nothing, and you are talking about denying that there is a wild privatisation and denying that there is a breakdown of health homes. I will try to substantiate this in a similar way as my colleague, Školč, said. How you respect the rule of law and how you respect the laws to which you are bound. When we define the healthcare plan, the health care plan is clearly set out in the point, I will, unfortunately, quote the health care plan by 2004. Why? Because it seems very important to me, because by then we have identified in a broad debate the public interest in health policy. And if I quote in the framework of the chapter "Fundamental Health Activity" we wrote: "The healthcare home must therefore remain in the future core provider of basic health activities in the public health service network. Medical homes retain the content of the work imposed by the law, Health Act 9. Article." What is now at stake here is what is happening within the Ministry's leadership when you run this ministry. So, health homes preserve the content of the work imposed on them by law. And we are talking about the Health Activity Act in Article 9, which makes it possible to operate successfully. The municipalities, as founders of healthcare homes, Article 8 of the Health Insurance Act, must be aware that by granting concessions they must not jeopardise the existence of a healthcare home as defined in Article 7 of the Health Activity Act, which sets out the extent of basic health activities. So, we have laws, we have a plan of health care, and of course I say that you don't respect them. For there is no new program of health care, but we have the texts of the articles in the laws which speak of the law. Here, of course, I would also mention the definitions that speak of the network in point 5 and say: 'The public health service network is separately defined for the primary and secondary level of health activities'. In point 5.1.1, when we are talking about a healthcare home, we are not talking about a basic institution, but we are talking about the basis for the organisation and implementation of basic health care activities at primary level, which will continue to be a healthcare home, which, in accordance with the Health Act, provides at least, and then we have urgent medical assistance, appropriate dispensary units, medical services, general medicine, patronage, dental care, laboratory and other diagnostic activities, rescue services and so on. And if I look into the Health Act, we will see that this is indicated in the Health Activity Act in Article 9, where we describe the role and importance of the healthcare home. And what's the problem with wild privatisation? You're changing the role of a nursing home beyond the law, beyond the health care plan that doesn't exist. And why am I saying that you're changing the role of a healthcare home? If you follow your responses to interpolation clearly writes, it is a surviving organisation, i.e. a surviving organizational form. And without getting to know the general public, the doctors are leaving the health center. And you're saying that, in fact, there's no longer an E.R., an E.R., or an E.R., or an E.R., or an E.R.? Where are those tasks that the law defines for you? And another violation of the law which speaks in Article 4 of the Health Act "...the criteria for the establishment of the public health service network shall be laid down in the Health Care Plan". And if you don't have a plan - how do you set the criteria for setting up a public health network beyond this provision of this law? But your scratch is known. You and the Budget Implementation Act made the same move. Why should we respect laws, such as the Health Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act? And we said, the costs of trainees and secondhands, let's throw them out of the budget into the health treasury. So, typical actions are typical of you not to respect the laws, because the answer must be completely simple. If there is no plan, how does it define the criteria for setting up the network - if there is no plan! However, if you follow the plan that was in force until 2004, it describes the role of the healthcare home that you are changing. You are changing it and actually putting it as a viable organizational form in doubt in Slovenia. Where do you have the authority of the Slovenes to do this? That is why I feel justified in criticizing that this is a wild privatisation, because if we followed the law of such measures and could not carry out such matters. And when you say that everything was already as it is today, I would remind you of one letter from Minister Kebra in his previous term of office, dated 20.2.2002, bearing the title Award of concessions at the primary level - recommendations. And I would like to know, Mr. Secretary, if you made such recommendations during your term of office. And what else is very important? What matters is what Minister Keber refers to. Minister Keber refers: "...for a number of issues in the award of concessions, the Minister of Health prepares a starting point for the award of concessions at the primary level, which should be taken into account in the procedures by all municipalities as well as other bodies..." and so on. In the preparation of the baselines, the Ministry of Health was based - from where the legal basis is - from the National Health Programme of the Republic of Slovenia - health for up to 2004, the Health Act. If you had written such a directive, what legal act would you have referred to? Because under your direction, health homes do not deserve such a recommendation, or do you place them without a clear strategy in a role that you then define in response to interpolation as if something went wrong and the municipalities as founders through the institute world have all the control mechanisms. I think it's very, very naive and irresponsible to put such a claim and put the health management home in an unenviable position. Here, however, I would only touch on one more question when you say that we cannot make the Law on the Protection of Patient Rights because it would bring certain costs requires a certain financial burden. Yes, Minister, your annual budget is falling. You're putting the burdens into the health register. If we were an intensive negotiator, we might be able to coordinate within the Government and propose to the National Assembly a budget that would include these costs. Of course, if you don't have this desire, you haven't thought about these ideas, you're talking about problems, but you're not solving problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u61	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm just gonna start answering the last part. Regarding the costs, I did not talk about printing the white book, nor about it, but I did talk about the costs that were spent on changing the health system in Slovenia and were paid to foreigners for certain products that have never lived or have never had any serious results. Here we agree, of course, this is not about printing the white book, in any way; if I said that, I made a lapsus, but this was absolutely not meant. You were talking about savings in the health department in the previous term. In the previous term, the medical treasury had a terrible downside. She made it in two years, 21 billion! And we had to transfer these 21 billion with the convergence programme this year or in 2005 to the cost of the country. Only this led to a so-called zero in the health business. I don't know where you found those savings you were talking about earlier with some of the measures that Secretary Keber was supposed to introduce. And I'm gonna say something good about Kebra later when you wanted to, but it has nothing to do with him. In short, there was a tremendous increase in the health deficit in those two years, 2003 and 2004, which we then had to remedy at the expense of the state budget. The healthcare plan is as high a priority for me as it was for all the ministers before me, and everyone had a serious problem with it. The Health Care Plan for 2000-2004 was in preparation for four years, I think, from 1996 to 2000 or from 1999 onward - that plan that was then to be completed at the end of 2004 and entered into force in 2000. I cooperated alone with that plan in 1999, and I know that there was a lot of good in that prepared plan, which was then completely reduced at different levels of discussion and from some meetings in Brdo to adoption in this Parliament. And such a plan as it was adopted was, of course, difficult to realize; if you read it carefully, there is virtually nothing realized. Such a plan as it was was simply impractical and simply could not be put into reality. Other countries, which are now a model for us and we will consider them to be a model for the preparation and adoption of this plan, have this much more concrete, but not in the form of fiction, which, of course, does not lead anywhere in the preparation of the plans. We have already discussed the role and meaning of the healthcare home today. I think, again, that I think that the healthcare home has an important function that its content and form can be changed - I hope you will attach to me here, I hope you do not think that the healthcare home, as it has been for 50 years, is an eternity. It's not because he's not like that anywhere in the world, and it's not forever. It's going to change, it's going to achieve some more development, another stage of development that I've always been prepared for, and I've always said that the healthcare home will never be canceled, it'll never go down like a building like an organizational unit. The contents of this healthcare home will change, be sure, and if you say so or otherwise today, the contents of the health care home will be changed. Bo! After all, we can resist whoever wants, one more, one less. It will be changed, but always in the interests of patients and those who work, because they are no less important. In short, the point is that I have always acknowledged that a healthcare unit can be a primary health care unit, but that the content needs to change and, of course, it does. As regards the granting of concessions, as before, we respect the law and there is no difference. Concessions were given all 14 years, just as they are now, so they broke the law after you, and they didn't, just as we don't. In short, concessions shall be implemented in the same manner. Can you explain to me how they previously awarded concessions in the previous 14 years and how we grant them? In exactly the same way! So you'll just have to find that this is illegal all the time, but of course it's not, but of course it's not, it can be proven. That recommendation by Minister Kebra on concessions raised a lot of dust and was adopted strongly negative. That letter meant a somewhat indirect ban on the granting of concessions to health homes or municipalities indirectly, not directly, but also the result of the granting of concessions in proportion to this, but it also had a markedly poor effect, including 100 undivided or irresponsible applications for concessions, not only unsharing, if they were not shared or disturbed, but were not responding to these applications for concessions, and this was the result of such an unnecessary letter or letter of poor content. As far as finance and the Long-Terms and Finance Act are concerned. Of course, I must say that at the time of the adoption of the budget this law was not yet prepared in this form and has not yet been as clear a financial calculation as it is now. I will make an effort in the future to bring this law into reality, into life, and I will, of course, make sure that the finances of this law are also obtained. However, we must be aware that nothing is free. I am sure that it is also necessary to remind the inhabitants that if they receive something, something should be given. Let us be sure that this is the right thing to do! We can't just wait and get people to wait for something to come from; nothing will come from nothing. We need to be aware, and we need to prepare people to do so, that some things need to be paid, too. And while it is possible to pay for such supplies by the budget, to give up something else in the negotiations for budgetary resources, but then we will get less somewhere else, or decide to pay more for some small thing, so that we can all have good social care in case of inability to serve ourselves. I think it is necessary to know this clearly and that if we do not say this with the common strong people that we will only look with political eyes, that you will only interfere with such options, then the agreement will be very difficult, be sure. I need your help here, not just in position. As for other things, Mr Školč spoke about those 1980s, and the ZSMS, he spoke about this matter, and how they sought privacy or something like that. I think it was one cut two, three years old at the age of 50, and I don't think there's any point in talking about two years compared to 50 years. As far as my dealings with the social partners are concerned, you know, if anyone talked to the social partners about this Health and Health Insurance Act, it was me. I wasn't always present at the negotiations, sometimes this team actually did it alone without my presence, but I was often present, and I must say that it took nine months and 21 negotiations. If this is not a willingness to negotiate, because some 'with a fig in their pocket' made decisions, and already at the second meeting began again the same problems without any need. In short, in July I decided that this negotiation in such a way, "with a fig in my pocket", I would break up and at some point, which is very close to the final goal and the final co-ordination, I suggested that we put this on the Economic and Social Council and there we discuss some of these things that are actually insignificant. And when I put on the Economic and Social Council, suddenly again, the answer is that there is a whole series of unresolved problems, as if we had not said anything and, on the other hand, at a meeting with the unions, they make it clear that we have achieved tremendous results in these discussions until now. In short, it's a discript who's obvious and has a great goal, as soon as this law is passed, I don't see any other variants here. We have virtually given in to a number of things. We have given in to the hospital's negotiations. Why? Because we've found that hospitals are already reduced by other laws and by other principles at this time, and there's no need to further reduce sick, sick people after 30 days. And if such a thing is found and we have admitted that there is no need for it, I think it is also necessary to actually talk about such things on the other hand in a way that is "without a fig in the pocket" not only to try to get the matter as wrapped up as possible. Of course, the results of these negotiations, I hope that they will be successful in one week or not so much next week, and that we can actually put this law on the government and Parliament. As for the pharmacy room, he should read or say and read a longer matter. Look, the Equalization Schemes Act, I'm going to talk about it as compensatory schemes, has made it clear what pharmacies are obliged to do by 0.75%, which is prescribed in the law. And in this regard, a serious problem arose because pharmacies for this price did not want to pay these commissions. At the same time - not the pharmacy, it was the Pharmacy that didn't want to pay, not the pharmacy. 60% of the pharmacies were sent to each of these fourteen data all the time or at least at some point in time and at the end of the day to each other as normal. And these 60% pharmacies, without agreement with the Pharmacy Chamber, were also normally paid for these services. However, I have taken this measure because, otherwise, patients should go from the pharmacy to the Mutual - that is, the Foundation of Costs - due to the failure to comply with the Health Care and Health Insurance Act or on compensatory schemes. Just imagine how you would have attacked me if you hadn't done what you would have said! I can only imagine that! Why don't you tell me what you'd say when 40% of people would go from the pharmacy to each other for a refund? If you answer that question, of course, it will be a lot clearer. But that's how I did something good for the insurance companies and nothing illegal. I will read about this comment on these illegalities, some comment. Pursuant to Article 62, paragraph 7, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, health service providers involved in a public health service network shall cooperate in the field of supplementary insurance with all insurance undertakings carrying out such insurance and shall provide them, as a rule, in electronic form, with all the information necessary for the operation of the compensation scheme of supplementary insurance, as specified by insurers and services. The pharmacies claimed that this was not necessary in order not to be part of a compensatory scheme. But it can be, it can't be. We can't even say that right now. Pursuant to Article 1 of the Act on Pharmacy Activities, a pharmacy activity is part of a health-care activity that ensures the provision of medical care to the population and health care institutions and other organisations with medicines. When considering those provisions, it may be concluded that the indication of the name of the medicinal product to be issued in the field of pharmaceuticals leaves the necessary part of the services of the specified data in accordance with the requirement contained in Article 62, paragraph 7, of the Health and Health Insurance Act. For there are no specifications on the issue or supply of the medicinal product. That the name of the medicinal product is strictly necessary for the operation of the compensatory scheme of supplementary insurance, follows from the provision of Article 62(f) of the Act, which provides that insurance undertakings are to submit a report to the Ministry of Health on the implementation of the supplementary insurance during the preceding balancing period, and in the following paragraph, the law provides that the Ministry of Health shall take into account only the documentary evidence accompanying the insurance undertaking's declaration in the reports. The way in which data are provided only on the costs of medicinal products issued does not allow for evidence that services have been declared in the compensatory scheme and that costs have also been incurred and thus does not allow accurate reports to be made to the Ministry of Health and the declaration of the reports of other insurance undertakings and, last but not least, such a method of reporting makes it impossible for insurance undertakings to fulfil their obligations to the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The second paragraph of the optional legal opinion of the Ministry of Justice further shows that the problem of data transmission to insurance companies arises in particular from the point of view of the protection of personal data. The data processing basis is laid down in Article 13 of the Data Processing Act, which provides that sensitive personal data may be processed if an individual has granted express personal consent for this purpose, the supplementary insurance undertakings have given such express written consent by concluding an insurance contract. The provisions of the general conditions of supplementary voluntary health insurance, which form part of the insurance contract, normally confer on the insurance insurer and the insurance insurer the power to permit the collection, storage, processing, use and transmission of their personal data in respect of all insurance procedures, including, in relation to the settlement of costs to health service providers, the authorised physician to check the health documentation of the insured person and to verify the authenticity and changes of personal data to the competent authorities. The provisions on the protection of personal data of insurers also contain contracts for the implementation of supplementary voluntary health insurance concluded by insurance undertakings with pharmacies and other health service providers. This is the answer to this famous violation of the law. That's what they say. I'm not too self-involved, I'm a law-abiding man. Now, a warning to Mr. Skull that Keber didn't start in 2001 but in 2000, it's just like that. It was another month in 2000, but it was still in 2000. I would like to say a few more words about the thoughts that Mr Bevk has said. On social dispersion due to the procedures under way in the reorganisation of health care. I don't know, I have to say this over and over again, and it is obvious that this way of working as we now do in the organisation of health care in Slovenia does not mean any decomposition of the population, as it allows equal, equal and equal access to all insured persons through compulsory health insurance or supplementary health insurance, but to all equally, whether they benefit from the services of a public institution or benefit from the services of a concessionaire. So you're worried, my dears, you don't have to be afraid of anything, and above all, don't fool people with such flossules. What Mrs Mlakarev writes is somewhere in some so-called research, as it says. Well, of course that's not research, that's some personal finding. And the problems you mentioned here today, Mr Bevk, did not arise yesterday. All that you're talking about is a long-term consequence of some multi-annual problems, but in every way, every health system has problems, so you don't have to mention them in particular. What is really a problem and what we will probably have to consider to be a priority in the future is, in my opinion, what Mr Bevk said, the regulation of the way of the dental insurance system in particular. But here are some problems, I agree, and they will have to be addressed as a priority in the future. You know, around the world dentistry is rarely the content of compulsory insurance, rarely, rarely the countries. We are the ones who have as much as we have, and we are still holding this in this mandate at the same height as we are when we take office. But I must say, of course, there is a need to look for new solutions that will be similar to those in other countries. But I'm going to keep trying on my own all the time in front of me to keep at least this level that is now. But such a high level of payment of dental services from compulsory insurance as we do is rare in Europe. Although, I have to say, with the system as it is, I'm not satisfied and we should prepare a better way. I agree with Mr. Bevk here. As for asbestos, which has been mentioned twice - once Mr Member Friend, once Mr Bevk spoke about asbestos - this is a serious problem that has been dragging for a long time. Asbestos law had already been dealt with in the previous government, when I was first in the ministry. At the time, it was still beneath us, and later it was transferred to the Ministry of Labour. But whoever has it, I'll tell you, he may have some serious problems. Wherever this law belongs, problems may arise because the solution to this problem is, in particular, taking into account the entire profession, all the professional opinions that are very different can be very difficult. It is interesting that in all the debates so far, there is no telling when and who is responsible for the situation from 25 years ago, when all things have happened and the consequences we feel today. I do not want to avoid the question before us, but it is probably necessary to answer the other question, why asbestos was still working with asbestos at some point in time, even though asbestos was already known to be harmful. Even then, production was expanding. We now have to solve these things and mistakes, I agree, things need to be settled fairly, but I am sure that these serious consequences that we have today cannot be resolved in such a way that all those who have ever, ever, ever, ever come into contact with asbestos will have some rights if they are not expressed because of this obvious and clear consequences. I agree that things really need to be changed, that they need to be brought to justice by those who are also entitled to it. With regard to the School's opening remarks on the negotiations of the social partners, I replied earlier. But I would also like to answer those things that Mr Gaber had set up for me at the beginning of his speech. First he asked me to say five of my mistakes and five of the good ones by Minister Kebra. I would start with some mistake, say, one is that I am sometimes too optimistic, and I expect people to be as honest as I am, and that this honesty is also clearly demonstrated in the realisation of some of the agreements. If that is not the case, then I can be disappointed and I must say that I admit this as a mistake and that this prediction regarding the adoption of legislation was too optimistic and in this area I can rightly have some problems, but you know what, I have to say that I have learned something and that things are already in a substantial improvement, as far as this is concerned - I think, too optimistic and that I have too much faith in some individual conclusions. Which is why lately I've always suggested writing it down. The second thing I would also like to say is that some things, especially in the network, could probably be done faster at this time if we changed the place of implementation of this network in a timely manner, but here a person can actually be wrong. We'd find another mistake, but maybe I wouldn't have fooled everyone into not taking advantage of me. As for the good things of Minister Kebra. I have to say, I've always appreciated him when I looked at what he had in mind as the object of a matter. Unfortunately, this goal has always been difficult or impossible to achieve, but it was good in principle, because also the white book was in its essence, in its possession, at the beginning, in that initial year good, but unfortunately the realization went in a completely wrong direction and this is one of the things I have to admit as good and also that it passed that alcohol law, you know, I consider it very good for him. That alcohol law isn't bad. And replaceable drugs, unfortunately, have now not been left to me by the same people who then replaced drugs to realize, to produce comparable drugs that would lead to the same good results, but that's just the way it is. I think it's good for him. I didn't count all the good points to him, either. But I have to say that I met with him at the time of his transfer to the Ministry, and that I then suggested one interesting thing to him, I think. This is for ministers, former ministers to meet somehow and discuss problems and possibilities for a solution. I must say, he was not ready for such cooperation very quickly. I'm always ready for that kind of cooperation, and I'm still ready. On this side, I must say that I would have no difficulty accepting any serious recommendation for further improvements in health care. As far as the operating tables Mr Petan was talking about are concerned. The tables are all mounted, these 18 tables. The ones they're not operating on are due to the fact that the premises aren't equipped like the Oncology Institute. And so, of course, then talking about how they're going to be with these tables, if they're just going to be mounted at the time when it was meant at the beginning, how they're going to operate there, of course, there's still no surgery on these tables, because that's not possible. And that's why we're going to lead as quickly as possible to the realization of the equipment of the Oncology Institute, the relocation from the old stable building and the start of operations on these tables. Many of them are already operating on these tables, like in Maribor, and I think Isola. And they'll be here in Murska Saturday. Tables were mounted on hand. All the tables were mounted on that day, practically when we set the deadline after the contract was signed, and they are also functionally qualified.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Mr Minister, for these answers. But there's something else I'd like to say about asbestos law. I hope that you will also engage yourself on this issue, as this law is also a problem or, above all, a health problem. In fact, the law has now been vetoed in the State Council, it is likely to be reconfirmed here and this environmental aspect of this law will include only lung cancer or malignant mesothelioma. All other asbestos diseases have been eliminated from this law. Your fear that there will be very large compensations has no real basis. For who will determine who is entitled to compensation for one form of asbestos disease? Does this already impose Article 9 of this Law, which is already in force? This is a special interdisciplinary group of experts, doctors. Let me read it to you; doctor or doctor specialist medicine works, doctor specialist internist, pulmologist, doctor specialist radiologist or doctor specialist other specialties according to the case. It is said that it will not be true that anyone who has ever come into contact with asbestos fiber will be entitled to this compensation, but it will be a very serious illness that this interdisciplinary group of doctors will identify. That is why I propose, Mr. Minister, even though this law does not fall within your jurisdiction to be read by your colleagues and co-workers and to be amended in the future. With regard to dental care, I would lay it on your heart and soul so that concessions would no longer be granted for an indefinite period of time. In fact, concessions are now being extended for an indefinite period of time, so to speak, until the retirement of an individual dentist and this is misused. Even cases are when the dentist does not accept pain, and this is unacceptable. However, mayors and councils do not have a mechanism to act. If the concession were granted for a certain period and this could be sanctioned, the mayor could have a tool in his hands and withdraw the concession from a dentist who does not work under the contract or his medical conscience. In the field of dental care, statistics have also been provided when some doctors have fewer than 1,000 patients [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u65	Mr. Bevk, replica, three minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u66	Some, however, are more than 3,500. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u68	As far as I'm concerned, I'll start again at the last part, as far as granting concessions is concerned for a certain or indefinite period of time. The proposal for a new law provides for the granting of concessions for a fixed period of 15 to 50 years, depending on the contribution that someone would make to this concession or to the building itself, for example. However, as far as marriage or asbestos is concerned, I must say that - now, as far as this number is concerned 15 to 50 years, you have smiled, but this thing, from how far away is the issue of the debate that we are going to have with this law. This is just a proposal that we thought was the most appropriate in writing the law. However, it may be possible for the discussion to change this number, according to some arguments. It's just a suggestion. As far as asbestos is concerned, it is interesting to test - that at the beginning of the mandate we have already carried out and given, now I do not know exactly how much money, I think about 10 million, 11 million for testing without connection with this law. But only because I felt it necessary to do some testing together with some Canadian doctors, fellow residents who lived or worked in contact with asbestos. Now these results, which were made at the internal clinic, are not yet because they are still going on, but will be published within a few months because the study takes longer than two years. In short, the Ministry of Health, regardless of what happened to the law, has cooperated or is prepared and will be even more prepared than now to help these patients. Now this law, which was passed, I know, and this law has, of course, given certain additional rights to patients called asbestos patients. He has received several corrections and the last adopted law has further introduced the rights of patients who were not directly exposed to asbestos and who had a history of mesothelioma. It's just a small part of the population in contact with asbestos. It is true, however, that all those who have been in contact - no, all those affected by this environment cannot be taken into account when working with asbestos. Some specific studies are needed to do this. I think it would be possible after these studies, as I said in the introduction, then more justly to distribute any compensation. Of course, I want the rights that are justified to be realized to all of them. Asbestos law, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u70	Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister, President! Probably says, "As much money as health." In my debate, I will focus mainly on how much money is spent for Slovenian health and how effectively the Minister of Health spends this money, especially, or on the health care of insurance providers, Slovenk and Slovenes, or on the financial health of some operators. My thesis is that Mr Minister - and the data will confirm this - in particular in his mandate - and the data that have been transmitted to the National Assembly and this is data when Slovenian public finances are presented - has proved to be a very good minister, who is mainly concerned with the health of Mr Bajuk. It helped to reduce the share of public spending in Slovenia and, above all, to reduce the share of public spending in the health sector. The expenditure from the health treasury, which amounted to around 6.5% of GDP in the previous term, will be lower by the end of 2008 with the Minister of Health in charge of Mr Bayuk's health, as much as half a percent of GDP. That's 40 billion dollars less real resources. Of course, the Minister has not only ensured that the expenditure from the health allowance is lower, he has also taken care of the significant law on the implementation of the budget and some other matters, so that the expenditure of the state budget devoted to health is also reduced. If these are estimated at 22.8 billion in 2006, they will be down by 8% in 2007, 21.2 billion and a good 600 million in 2008. According to the budget adopted, the Minister of Health is minus 8%. No doubt that's not the only part of the story. Worse still, the Minister of Health is reducing the efficiency of spending money. First of all, there is something to say about the Slovenian healthcare system until the performance of Minister Bručan. I quote the latest World Bank book on health systems in the middle-developed countries. And as one of the more successful examples of a more efficient health funding system, it mentions Slovenia. This is because of the activities taken by Slovenia before joining the European Union. In connection with some of the projects that were launched during the time of Minister Jereb and completed during the time of Minister Kebra. The fundamental feature of these mechanisms is to ensure better purchase of services from health service providers. And today, the minister said yes, it is true that patients' health needs to be taken care of, but it is also necessary to take care of the health benefits of those working in the healthcare system. And Mr. Minister, one of the basic features of the interpretation that we have presented to you is that you are less than concerned about the health of 2 million Slovenians, citizens of Slovenia, citizens of Slovenia, concerned about health, especially the financial health of several groups, some 100 in particular of the so-called new-designed concessionaires. Of course, it must be said that it is possible to continue to issue concessions, as was the case with Mr Jereb in particular, even now in your time, simply not knowing the basic elements of physics. The number of doctors is limited. And as long as you continue at the same pace as Mr Jereb started, which has mainly completed the award of concessions, especially to dentists and others, and you continue to do so in this mandate, then we will soon have the public health service providers, the services we pay from public funds, only private people. This in itself is not a problem, if, of course, private individuals who carry out concessions either in health care or at secondary and tertiary level would not pursue another interest. And, Minister, I ask you what the 2009 partnership arrangements will look like when all health care providers are private. Minister, do you have any idea what is happening in countries where they are using more of the gross domestic health product than we are doing in Slovenia? The key dilemma is to determine the price of the service. And if you, as Minister of Health, are going to a conference on public-private partnership, where it is acceptable for you - it is acceptable - because I have not heard from your mouth a different comment on the fact that the public-private partnership should allow 15 to 20% of the profit rate, I ask you how you can allow a debate on how to suddenly increase the prices of health services in Slovenia for this level of profit. This, Mr Minister, comes directly from sitting down with individual potential investors who say we will invest in health care if the state can't, but we expect a rate of return. And the fundamental question, Mr Minister, is whether you are the Minister of Health, as defined by the amendment of the law a few years ago, whether you are in particular a minister who cares about the financial health of some health service providers. And in your mandate, you have initially effectively reduced the volume of funds while at the same time issuing more and more concessions; and these concessionaries, these privates, will present this account to the insurers. All of this would not be a problem if we did not write in Slovenia into the Constitution and several laws that we are a social state, that insurance contributions finance services when they are needed, and that the country should purchase services from healthcare providers in the most efficient way. And, of course, the status of these is irrelevant. And you have to ask yourself what's more important to you. Whether it is more important for you to have 4,671 doctors, 2,800 specialists or 2 million patients and patients, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is known what happens when individuals take concessions - they are interested in the result below the line. They are not interested in the number of services delivered, they are not interested in reducing waiting periods, they are interested in optimizing, optimising the price per unit and minimizing costs. Of course, we will have many interesting cases in Slovenia in the coming years, when it will be found that the individual did not simply carry out the necessary investigation, laboratory tests, X-rays, because at a given price, he simply was not prepared to perform this intervention. And then we will wonder why in individual parts of Slovenia the rate of mortality is changing. We will be surprised if we, which has so far managed to maintain relatively well the quality of the health system, have suddenly fallen among those countries that fail to do so, and these are countries with much lower levels of public spending. Mr. Secretary! In response to the interpolation, you didn't answer that. You have given, and I will quote, only two things: you have given some information about public expenditure that you have not compared to what Mr Minister of Finance has sent to the National Assembly. It explicitly says here, a reduction of 160 million euros, 40 billion dollars less money than in the past. You said even worse, about the area of ownership of health establishments, and there were no movements of operators, as this is not allowed under the Public Finance Act. Mr Minister, you were sitting on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which passed the Law on Public-Private Partnership, where it is prohibited, and the Law on Public Finance on the Prohibition of the Ownership of Health Institutions and Operators, and your Members of the ruling coalition lifted this prohibition of ownership. And the story is very simple, when only private concessionaires sit in individual health homes, they will only privatise buildings under the Public Private Partnership Act. And then in Slovenia, we will be surprised to see that, suddenly, one of the most important instruments that enables economies of scale, which allows for a lower cost of service, we have moved into private hands. Mr. Minister, this is currently the legislation you've been insisting on. The Law on Public-Private Partnership has been adopted and the Law on Public Private Partnership allows privatisation if you want the Clinical Centre. Doctors of concessionaires gather, go to several banks, if possible foreign, and offer Mr Bayuk, even Minister Bručan will not ask any more questions about the privatisation of the Clinical Center. This allows legislation that has been adopted under your intervention, with your insistence, the absolute Government of the Republic of Slovenia in which you are sitting has lifted this ban. You didn't even know that, Mr. Secretary, when you wrote this marriage. You didn't even know that, sorry, that answer. You didn't know there was no more bans on privatisation. And there's something else about issuing concessions. You know, we joined the EU on 1 May 2004. And if we have not invited concessionaires by then, this does not mean that we can do so on 1 May 2004. And here you are in violation of the European directive directly; and you say, it's no big deal. It is already possible that there is no need for an invitation to tender in individual segments where there is potentially only one tenderer, but the situation has changed significantly since 1 May 2004. In particular, it goes to the Minister for Financial Health of individual health service providers, but it is not about the health of Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u71	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we are somewhere in the middle of this interesting interpolation, I certainly expect that, at the end of the treatment of this interpolation, we can all come to realize that it has brought something good. Of course, not as good a policy for us as it is for those citizens and citizens that we actually represent and represent here. On this occasion, however, I would point out some of my views which I have observed in the content of this interpretation and which, in particular, remind me of a prior period of the ministry from 2001 to 2004. Especially from the written content of interpolation is something to be quickly detected and detected. In fact, I would have joined those remarks by Minister Bručan when he found that, however, the former Minister of Health had many specific and good goals to achieve the improvement of the health situation, but those objectives were so ambitious that he unfortunately could not achieve them. Of course, health matters also change over time. The ministry, which I believe was taken over by the current Minister for Interpellation for Miklavz's 2004 gift, sometime on December 8th, if I recall. At that time, I remember that it was also written that there was a large deficit - 117 billion, or what, or 17 billion Slovenian tolars - and that this ministry faced great challenges, how to remedy and improve the situation in this area. However, since we are not all educated enough to get to know each other in particular specialties, at least I hope to say so myself, I have tried, in the context of the content of this interpretation, to learn from the professional point of view of the content of the proposed interpolation. A specialist doctor who has quite a few working hours for himself when I asked him how I should actually go about this debate and what he sees as an expert in the field of health positive. He said to me: "I am familiar with interpretation at least from the media with some emphasis on content. I have to tell you, the waiting lines are actually short. Whoever does not believe this should obtain the relevant information and not possess those data that are actually misleading." When I asked him how it was with wild privatisation, he told me that other European countries had already taken this important step long before us and that Slovenia is doing this with a delay to support the ministry, the ministerial team led by Minister Bručan in this sense, that these things are accelerating, but there is something else important: to change the thinking of some people who still expect those good times to be the same as the times of the same stomachs today in a united Europe. That these processes, which are currently under way in the field of health, result from something completely normal and that these processes are ongoing, of course Slovenia will not be able to avoid them in this resistance, although it is already much late. Great fears about the public health service are superfluous. Public health services are operational. I attended at least three visits when Minister Bručan and his colleagues visited hospitals or health homes. Hospital management, at least when I was there, and health homes supported his efforts in terms of health changes. And I'm wondering today, and I'm finding out that all these readings that are listed in the interpolation are not justified. However, like some of my colleagues and colleagues before me, Minister Bručan himself said that he was not satisfied in some areas. And it is right that we put these areas in particular, namely in dental care, and here I come from a particular case where a patient warned me a few days ago that she had stepped up to a dentist with a concession, brought a disabled patient to a wheelchair, asked him when she could order it because she had lost a card and he told her that in February. Here, of course, I wonder for myself whether it really takes almost three months for you to come to the dentist in line with the fact that I know the local environment in which it happened. This is probably not justified and is not admissible. As far as interpolation writers are concerned, when they report that it is illegal to grant concessions. Look, I can't believe we could generalize these things. However, we are a legal country, a member of the European Community who cannot afford to do what is not in line with the criteria that developed Europe knows much before us, and that we certainly cannot afford anything of our own. But it may be true in the past about some illegal award of concessions, which I think Minister Bručan himself has already highlighted today. As regards the general situation in Slovenian health care, I would like to join those who find that it is generally good. Of course, it is not so good that it could not be even better. And I agree with that. On the basis of the data that the state of the Treasury Office for Health Insurance is positive in favourable, business results, I also expect that this is an appropriate health situation. I want Minister Bručan and his team to continue, perhaps more rapidly than ever, changes in health care that are necessary and necessary for Slovenian health care. We will not be able to avoid this and in accordance with the legislation we are enacting here in the National Assembly, to follow this important step, because health is a value you only feel when it is your turn. And then, perhaps, we all hope and want to receive such health services as would bring back the greatest value, health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u73	Thank you, too. Member Milan Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u74	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I add many times to the other perceptions of the majority of speakers today, Minister, another observation that has been less heard today. This is an obvious fact that in the two years since you have been leading the ministry, you have failed with your ministerial team and despite the public debate you have repeatedly boasted about this public debate, the public knew little about it. Apparently, you've locked it more closely into your discussion circle and created an impression through the website that a public debate is under way. I have a better feeling that through this website you have somehow bluffed the public that this debate is ongoing. Therefore, you have not yet been able to enter into the procedure of the National Assembly into a law that would fully provide for such an important segment of human life. These are human rights or patient rights. It is true that in your performance today, you have said that the law is difficult, that there is a need for more professions, especially lawyers, and that you are before the law is concluded. But it is also true, Mr Minister, that you have been a minister for two years and therefore such an apology is not really acceptable and I do not accept it. Mr. Secretary, you're a doctor. I believe you're also a humanist as a doctor. And not only that, you are also a citizen of Slovenia and now the EU. I am sure you are aware or at least I think you should be aware of the importance of protecting patients or patients in this dynamic Slovenian environment. However, as has already been said, for two years, when you as a minister prove that you do not respect the importance of these rights or at least failed to make it public to us or to the public. Before taking office in November, 29 November 2004, you stated to the committee: "We will defend the establishment and functioning of the Institute of the Ombudsman." I also quote other statements concerning the protection of patient rights at this meeting. I quote: "I think that in Slovenia there are many too many left to themselves, somewhere else too many health care, I will say, institution or health organisation and that they do not have the opportunity to fully exercise their rights. This Ombudsman has been assessed quite well in Maribor so far. I think it would be good to extend this practice to all Slovenia." And you keep saying, "We'll prepare a code, we'll tell the patients the rights, and we'll also arrange appeals procedures. We will continue with the initial processes of introducing transparency and the quality of health services," this is something being done, "to prepare this hospital path, but of course from some results, I must also say that I do not see it yet." That's the end of the quote. Your statement at the time sounds a little confused, but it is only to understand that you had already ensured the preparation of the appropriate law that I am talking about today. This provision of yours continues at the meeting of the Health Committee, on the 4th regular meeting, on 22.9., your State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic, stressed, quote: "that the bill on patients' rights in the Government's programme is prepared for public debate and regulates the area of the appeal procedure. [[...]] The bill introduces professional representatives of patients' rights to be organised at the regional level. The drafting of the law itself has been extended to comply with European directives or guidelines in this field." [[End of quote.]] The Committee also adopted the following recommendation at that time [[Quote]] : "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministry shall ensure as soon as possible the legal arrangements for the exercise of patients' rights." And what's next? At the 10th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, on 27.10.2006, we receive your following explanation: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has addressed the recommendations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the time of the 9th regular annual report of the Ombudsman for 2003 and has implemented the following: The Ministry of Health is preparing the Law on the Rights of Patients. The law will provide for compliance with the principles of patient rights, as stated in the European Charter on the Rights of the Patients." And I remind you of what you said, "the law is expected to be passed by the end of this year." This year's end of this year is of course 2005. Yes, you have correctly heard, respected few Members and Members of Parliament, especially viewers and viewers, who you have mostly been or will be patients of any of the doctors or health institutions. At the beginning of your term of office, the Minister assured you again 14 months ago that you would know exactly what your rights were, and that you would also have professional assistance in exercising your rights, so that all of this would be ensured by a law to be adopted by the end of 2005. Today, of course, we are already at the end of 2006. Many of these patients, while searching for information or protecting their rights, did not know how and where, because they did not have or still do not have their own representative, an agent of the patient’s rights to help them. May I remind you, Mr Minister, of your commitment and the obligation of the Government, as enshrined in the coalition contract in section Organisation and functioning of the health service. So you wrote: "We will prepare the patient's rights code and arrange complaints procedures. We will continue with the initial processes of introducing transparency over the quality of health services." So that's what the coalition contract says. Clearly, Mr Minister, at this time you have slightly forgotten this obligation, even though you were talking today about how difficult this marriage is. Apparently, at least that's how I get the impression, you're either not interested in patients, their problems, their powerlessness, their discontent. You were obviously interested in satisfied doctors, and only those doctors who are either close to you and are mainly winners or candidates for the award of the concession. So the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has offered you a hand, Minister. We offered a hand with a bill on patient rights or patients' rights. At the October meeting, which continued in November, the law was tabled by a group of Members with the first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem. In our view, the law has been a good basis for discussion and complementarity in the second reading and through your active cooperation, with the participation of the Ministry or Members, it could be made to be acceptable, good and, therefore, to satisfy these interests that we are talking about. Unfortunately, the law was drafted by the opposition. The opposition has no right to submit for the adoption of its laws and therefore the law has been rejected as inappropriate. Also interesting is Mr Marusic's statement at the time, which said that the proposed law was the same as we tabled it. So one of the materials that is also being considered by the Ministry is that there is an even better proposal that we have never seen before. This all shows, Minister, that only someone or you as a minister or your colleagues do not feel what many patients are experiencing in distress when they do not know how to solve their health problems, when they are not satisfied with the doctor's relationship to them, when they wait too long for treatment, when they are affected by the quality of treatment or care when they do not know exactly what their rights are. If we felt the way the citizens expected, and especially the sick, to feel their Minister of Health, the Minister of Health of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Health of the Coalition, we would be given the law as a priority in adopting us in the National Assembly. I advise you, Mr Minister, that once again, you have said that you are to talk to the Ombudsman in Maribor, who is doing this work quite or almost volunteering. I'll serve you with many cases. I trust you will no longer hesitate to intercede with the law. Mr Minister, already in the second Member of the National Assembly and the public, through television broadcast, we experience the arrogance and agility of the holders of public functions in this case of the two ministers experiencing interpretation, and they are not prepared to accept a minimum of criticism or to show at least a little self-criticism. At least this virtue would make you more human, more credible, and perhaps even your citizens would believe you. Your criticism, as you say, "that you are too optimistic" is, of course, inappropriate to what I mean by your self-criticism. That people don't believe you, we don't believe you in LDS, and that's why we put in an interpolation. I believe the viewers will come to their senses when they see today's meeting and find out where you're taking this health care, Mr. Minister. When my colleagues and colleagues have shown you uncontrolled award of concessions, at least they consider it not to be an uncontrolled award of concessions, but rather a very, very controlled award with a goal, as Dr. Pegan freely acknowledges in the role of President of the Medical Chamber in today's edition of the Work, when it says: "When the critical mass of individuals in a particular environment is exceeded, the healthcare home will lose its function, so it will have to consider some other way of organising private individuals." That's what, Mr. Secretary, is running away. That's what's causing the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u75	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u76	Good evening and thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. In the course of my discussion, I would like to ask the Minister some questions which are being asked both as a potential hospital or as a patient of a general practitioner or as a specialist, as well as questions raised by me as former mayors, which I considered to be basic health care and the provision of basic health care networks in our municipality one of the most important tasks of the municipality as well as of all other municipalities in Slovenia. So I would like to ask you first, Mr. Minister: "How do you imagine that a health insurance company will be able to cover substantially increased costs of emergency medical transport with helicopters when you decided to transfer medical helicopters from the public sector, that is from the military and the police, to a private concessionaire?" That's how I read it in the paper. I'm sure you'll be able to tell me that's not true, or you'll tell me how you plan to cover it up. In fact, according to the experience we have with the provision of health services, for example, in hospitals, specifically in an insular hospital, when the extent of health care provided by a health insurance company for an individual hospital, in particular an insular hospital, simply stops paying for these services. Will the health insurance company also stop paying for helicopters when the private operator is sure to be several times more expensive than the military or police who do not charge their waiting hours, which is also reasonable in itself, since the helicopter pilots’ hours are counted in the hours of practical flight that all helicopter pilots have to make? It is said that the costs of this flight can actually be shared among the user, this is called health care, and that the person who needs flying hours is the army or the police, because of his own practice. So, the point of this question is - it's said that you're nodding. Is it true that you have awarded a concession for the provision of medical helicopter services to a private economic company and, if that is the case, how do you intend to cover the difference in the price of services, which will certainly increase several times in view of the cost so far? The second question that comes to my mind is that when we adopted the Health and Health Insurance Act in relation to Mutually if you remember then we also talked about how the problem of municipalities is to cover the very high costs of compulsory health insurance paid by municipalities from budgets for the insurance of unemployed persons or persons without their own livelihood. At that time, you said that you would make sure that either these funds would be covered by the State from its own budget, or, if this did not happen, that you would ensure, in cooperation with the local self-government sector within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the funds would be allocated to the implementation or financing of municipal budgets from the State budget, so increased that they would cover all the costs of this compulsory health insurance. But that didn't happen. The municipalities are still paying compulsory health insurance for these citizens. At the same time, the funds intended to cover these costs from the state budget have not only increased but have not appeared at all. Not to mention that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which promises higher amounts practically to all municipalities at the expense of appropriate spending, and that these amounts are increased by the system of calculation. However, it is necessary to know that, in particular, it is necessary to cover those increased costs already incurred in the past without the State providing additional resources under these increased commitments. It is said that there is no provision in the new Community funding system to cover these expenditure. Finally, I would like to ask you about this scrupulous support for concessional health activities, but here only at local level because I would not like to intervene in an area I do not know. As far as I can tell, I'm gonna make a stop in the end. I have one very specific question. In particular, I would like to tell you that the pressure of doctors in our health care home is to grant them a concession for a very wide range of health activities, from general medicine to children’s medicine, pediatrics, and even gynaecology, and even medicine and transport and sports, where we have opened up this activity in the health care home, since by then the medicine of transport and sport has been located in the Municipality of Koper and was probably enough and not too much for the patient or the clients for this activity. What am I trying to say? This pressure on the award of concessions has been increasing since you, in fact, have in some way supported the granting of concessions, somehow legitimized the pressure of doctors to obtain concessions. But the fact is, I don't get information that those concessionaires, those doctors who already have concessions, are doing much better than doctors who work as public servants in a public health institution. I can tell you that our experience with doctors in general medicine, who have obtained concessions eight years ago, is nothing too good. Right at the beginning, we had serious problems because we were not willing to perform on-calls and therefore we had to have full fluctuations in negotiations, convincing until we threatened to contact health insurance companies and demand that the contract be terminated simply because the health insurance contract clearly stated that every general health doctor working in the basic health care network should be included in the system of on-call duty in each municipality. Later, it was settled. I must say that with severe suffering because we simply do not have any support at local level from anywhere else to advise us what we should actually do in such a case. Later, there was a problem. For example, but it only took a year to make this serious change, that both doctors significantly reduced the number of ordered services in the health care laboratory, so that they carry out laboratory tests more easily at some convenient laboratory that I think can't give the A test that everyone in the laboratory needs to have, so that it can function normally. Then there was the problem - this was written to me by one patient, but one citizen - that for two months one of the two doctors had no nurse and that he was working without a nurse and that patients were sentenced to a longer wait than they had been. And he asks: Who is the one who can actually allow a doctor to work without a nurse? After all, something like this could happen, like what happened, with Medicine working in Cyprus. If you remember maybe a while ago, but I don't want to suggest it that way, but it could be a problem. Now I would like to ask: A doctor who works as a public servant in a public health institution or in a public institution of a regional hospital or in a public institution of a clinical centre or whatever else he has at his disposal all the necessary facilities, equipment, everything that is at least in our health care home has medical equipment at its peak, I can argue that, because, in completing a healthcare home, he also has all of his amortisations, which he has put into completely new state-of-the-art equipment over the past 10 years. Why would a doctor of general medicine who works at a health care center today as a public servant do worse, or why would he do better if this public servant received a concession and worked as a doctor of the concessionaire? I would probably work in the same rooms with the same medical equipment, because now what will be the health care home from that ambulance where he has been working so far to throw equipment out or what is in the licensed activities of such a doctor is such a magic that this same person will do better than the concessionaire, to work more efficiently, faster that patients will be more satisfied that waiting species will not be sent for expensive services which he would otherwise have to order to not perform or order as a doctor directly, but will be better directed to a patient to a specialist so that the cost will not fall on his shoulder, but will fall to a public institution that deals with specialized activities. Why does the government have such a belief that doctors who are public servants in Slovenia are doing worse or that as soon as they get the concession, they will do better than they did when they were public servants? I don't believe that. I am also convinced that, otherwise, because of the service paid by the health insurance company, it is paid equally to the private and to the public service. At least I figure it's the same height. However, the level of service received by the patient may be lower in concession activities than in the public service. Unpunished, out of control. The patient has no idea what it can actually get, what it can expect and what it actually gets. He doesn't know that. And that's why I'm wondering: "Where did you, the party that you call a licensed activity not privacy, this is not privatisation, this is just another form of health care? And one more question I would ask you is, "What would be the material change in a health care home if all 15 doctors, as many as in a health care home, took over the concession and worked in the same health care home as the concessionaires, how would the content of the activity change in a health care home?" I think there's still going to be an activity in the healthcare network. I don't see any difference between working in a public health centre or working in a nursing home for private people. I don't see the difference. Except in something, namely, now for the health care of the congregation and for its maintenance, while doctors will then pay a rent, which, under the pressure of the Medical Chamber, has to be set up at some nonprofit level, allow the Medical Chamber to determine how much rent is to be in public health homes, which means that it should then take care of the teams themselves in this health home for the maintenance of the premises. So to speak, Doctors. What do you think they'll look like after 15 years of space run by these doctors? I would like to ask you this: "How do you imagine how one team of people who can't deal with each other even now, let alone once they're private and have concessions for their activities?" And I am therefore saying that to talk about how the whole of Western Europe already has all of health care, that as all doctors in Western Europe or in the European Union, except for us, who are somewhere behind the moon, which we still have public health services, says "lari-fari". I would like to point out to my colleagues, who say unverified things, that, in particular, there is public health in the individual countries of the European Union, in the old Member States. That private health care in Britain is very large. That's right. But this is a tradition that has lasted for 100 years or more. While, for example, there is still public health in France, public health in Sweden prevails, and probably elsewhere. I'm the only one who doesn't know all this information. And yet this is a very specific question, Mr Minister, not about whether a concession was granted at midnight, whether at four o'clock in the morning or at four o'clock in the afternoon. I would like to ask you: "How is it possible that you have awarded concessions to doctors who have nothing at all to do, so that they can prove that they can carry out their activities in the first place, not have rooms, not staff, not equipment, but at the same time since April, a legal person who has all the necessary equipment, employed five doctors, along with a whole range of nurses and other medical staff who are part of this profession, and have not received any concessions?" Thus, since April, an application has been submitted for the award of a concession to an institution which is professional in this field in the field of specialist health care, with five doctors of specialists or specialists who are about to complete the specialisation, but who have not been able to obtain the concessions. We know in particular that a person on the coast was informed 24 hours before the concession was granted that it was possible to obtain this and brought in piles, all the various papers and received the concession. This institution did not receive this concession. I want to know why there's such a difference. Not because of when it was given, but why it was not granted to someone who is actually fully qualified for this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u77	Thank you. Member Stana Pike has the floor. [[He's not here.]] The word is by Ambassador Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u78	I wanted a mag. He says that you are a happy person because you like to smile during today's debate and I don't know what they say about this cynicism by those who are affected within the healthcare system or who are waiting in rows. But at the same time, I immediately say that you are quite happy, but you cannot be given the fact that your fellow Members of Parliament and coalition partners are not actually giving much to your defence. However, I can say that you are a little cynical when you use the right words in some of the speeches that are looking for the right meaning, say, "that movement," I'm talking about moving to preserve public health, "that movement, someone, so-called," as well as not having 45,000 members and members. Or to say, as I read in the Primorski News, that "dialogue with this movement is going on all the time, even though it has not been so far with this formal movement," it is called "bushism," right? Or "they're ZSMS" and so on. But at the same time, mag. Bručan, in addition to all these adjectives, would tell you that you are yourself sufficient, at least in dialogue with the social partners. Let me remind you again. Janez Janša denied him hospitality in the Government because he was powerless or unable to engage in dialogue with the social partners. You sort of shut it down by force, then it reopened. Now it's been interrupted, perhaps because of the interpolation that's going on. He was also interrupted because of one very painful and very authoritarian move for the Government. Those who, inter alia, implement the composition of the Assembly and the Management Board of the Health Insurance Institute. You know, Minister Bručan, how you want to arrange this assembly, how it should be composed. It is no different than the Council of RTV, where the government so allegedly raped and splintered its people into composition. And you also know that the social partners are not satisfied with this and that they want to influence that the influence of the government and thus the control of this very important body, which apparently has even a crazy proposal, so that government representatives or those so-called government representatives can veto. You're at the same time, Minister, Mr. Mag. Bručan, also sweet sir. Because when you became a minister, you promised so much that you would drain honey and milk. Now that there is neither milk nor honey, but warm water, you search for alibis in the past, and now you deter the present with pride and lies, as well as with new promises. What do we hear? We hear you're going to adopt -- I counted -- almost 12 laws next year. In short, one a month. But today we heard from your mouth, "yeah, we can't write marriages in one month, it doesn't work like that." Which means you're putting something into the future again, just like you did when you came to the government. But at the same time, you are also without responsibility and without active power influence where interpretation dictates influence or alerts you to wrong decisions. Allow me to touch on a problem that has not yet been exposed today, but it has already unfolded and triggered in these areas. This is a question raised by my colleagues: "What is your position on women's health, especially in the context of anticipated pay abortions, or what do you think about the protection of women's health, the issue of fertility, the issue of contraception, the issue of pregnancy and artificial fertilisation?" When it came to abortions, you gave an answer here that was colorless and tasteless. You said it because it doesn't matter what you think. Of course, we were surprised to hear that, because you are the Minister of Health. For this reason, allow me to draw attention to other errors which I consider to be the Minister of Health in the 21st century and during the rights acquired. On the one hand, as I said before, your Government has been thinking about paying abortions, and on the other hand, it has not spoken a word about contraception, and you do not talk about it yourself. This is understandable, though, given that representatives of the Roman Catholic Church are also taking the bait in your ministry, but still. Minister, why do you allow some contraceptives in Slovenia to still be paid? Why do you allow, even though we know that the Health and Health Insurance Act clearly speaks about what compulsory insurance rights are and that women's health care is paid in full in relation to advice on family planning, contraception, pregnancy and childbirth? It's not like that. Certain contraceptives are payable, a maternal intake which is very nice, very safe and for women also medicinal. If women want to have it, they have to pay for it themselves at 30,000 tolars. Well, those who are less friendly and who are not so useful and curative, I stress, and the cures are, of course, attainable. But I would like to emphasize, the maternal inserts. This method of contraception is recognised in the world as one of the safest, most reliable and most friendly ways. Especially for contraception in certain age groups of women. Why - for example - does the Minister of Health not decide to make order in paying for and not paying for epidural childbirth? Why doesn't he do it? In fact, somewhere they're free, somewhere else they're paying. But we know they're free in most developed countries. In the 21st century, it's a decent thing to do. Mr. Minister, you allow them to be paid for most of the time. It's almost 30 to 50,000 tolars. They're free somewhere. Where they are free of charge, the costs shall be borne by the hospital and not by the State or the institution. This means that costs are included in another programme intended for other services. In short, why don't you have any rules here? The only rule you allow is the intransparency of business and the distinction between those women who can pay and those who can't. In short, you're allowing for a severe social human differentiation. And another irregularity, because we are talking with the main project of this government, which it said at the very beginning, is to deal with poor demographic structure and growth in Slovenia. It's called an increase in fertility. Why do you have such injustices, or why do you not have a proper environment in the field of artificial fertilization? Infertility is also on the rise in us and covers up to 1% of young people. And how do you do it? How? Good. The government is thinking about limiting abortions, not facilitating the birth of those who want to have children in life, but who have difficulty in fertilizing them. The OBMP procedures are extremely opaque. Prices for services vary from hospital to hospital. There are no real records, and there is no precise rulebook. For many years, about 2,000 artificial fertilizations have been planned for the annual quota, but fewer interventions are carried out than the insurance company pays. And what happens to that difference? We don't know. For example, we do 1229 interventions per year in Ljubljana, but they were planned, registered and paid, and 850 were carried out. What's the difference? Oh. K. There is another problem here, Mr. Minister, that if a woman who is beaten by a biological clock wanted to order for an artificial insemination procedure months ago, she was ordered for the following year, January, February, etc. In short, all I'm saying is that you too contribute to fewer births and more expensive departures abroad, less joy, less children, more personal tragedies. And to increase waiting opportunities good in artificial fertilization. It certainly seems to me that we should deal with these issues and not hide them under, perhaps some thought that they are not economic enough, that they do not produce enough economic effects, that they are too expensive, and that by artificial fertilisation they are born of too few children. But the number of OBMP pregnancies in 2005 is 600. This is 3% of those we have since birth in Slovenia. Let me repeat, the funds where those funds are allocated to the OBMP which are not used or which are declared for the quota are less implemented. And why don't you listen to those who propose to increase the number of free interventions from 4 to 6? Why do you not try to simplify the payment of interventions, and why not listen to those who would be reimbursed even if they had to go abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u79	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! It is clearly a matter of dialogue between us Members of the LDS and the Minister. Apparently, some other colleagues are particularly interested in matters in the coalition. For them, things are over and decisions have already been made. But still, I would, Mr. Minister, but I would start with the dilemma that has been mentioned today, namely the dilemma that stretches like a red thread. This is a dilemma about public and private health. I came to this dilemma myself, of course, on other subjects. For example, the issue of providing public goods in the field of the environment or elsewhere. Here, too, there are dilemmas similar to those of public health. But not to be too long to be a professor. It is clear that public health has its great advantages, as well as its some major weaknesses, and that private health has a wide advantage and a wide range of weaknesses. If we see efforts to build public health systems, health care systems today in modern societies, we see that they are fighting hard to establish a balance, a relationship between one and the other. In doing so, they take into account, in particular, the benefits of patients, aware that medical techniques are becoming increasingly expensive. At the same time, the health system is, of course, increasingly burdensome. In all systems, they try to combine the benefits of public health and the benefits of private health. Except for us, Mr. Minister, you combine the weaknesses of public and private health with your work. This concession debate was the one that led me to this. You're saying this isn't about privatisation. It's private work in the public health system. Of course, of course that's what this is about. But it's because, I'd rather see, I'd say, real, normal privatisation as a private job or private work in a public health system like it's organized. My colleagues and I do not mind being charged to a health insurance company that pays the client money, that a private doctor provides health services in his premises with his equipment and with his medical staff. By the way, I have this kind of supply in a facility like this. However, when such services are granted in a public institution, in public spaces, municipal in this case with not too well-distributed resources, with sometimes borrowing - for example - medical personnel even equipment. Even - I'd say - the consumption of equipment, what's going on in health care. Maybe you don't know that, and I know that that's when the relationship between private and public is, of course, blurred. That's when everything goes wrong, and that's when we start pouring public funds into private pockets. The minister says that the healthcare building will always stay at home, but the content will change. He did, and he probably will. Will there really be a building, Mr. Secretary? I'm saying no. The building won't stay either. Why not? Because after a little research, I found that the price of rent per square metre of space in the healthcare home is approximately €8 in Gorenjska there. For EUR 8 per square metre, Minister, you cannot maintain a healthcare home and you will not maintain it. And it's true, it won't go down today, it won't go down tomorrow, it won't go down in three months, and it won't go down in years. Ten years from now, you'll have a wreck. This is a problem that you are not aware of today, and this is a problem that will actually drive these ruins to the right owner. These are congregations. Those inside will do what they can to move and so on or so on. You can't deny it. It is right that concessionaires want to maximize their services in order to avoid certain complicated, expensive services. If it's not a good concession contract, it can happen. Of course, at the expense of the patients. Mr. Minister, believe me, I'm not the kind of person to make this up, not even that I'm not the kind of person to point out some cases that I'd say are bombastic on my own. But in Gorenjska, the concessionary doctor sent a patient suspected of having diabetes to measure himself literally, quote: "... to measure sugar to the Society of Sugar Patients or to the pharmacy if they have that handy device there." While the medical home sends these results and these samples and other matters even for testing to the lab in London. I don't know if that's necessary, but that's what people do. It's not that it's just one case. There are too many of these cases. These cases are embedded in the system. I would understand that there are some deviations, some distortions, that any system would say empty circuits. But there's too much to doubt that it's just a bad thing. It's bad contracts. This is about things that shouldn't be happening, and they are happening precisely because the matter is meant to be happening. It's not true that on-calls aren't a problem. They are, according to my estimates and the information I received, a constant problem. As long as there are at least half or more doctors in public health with public wages in health care if you want to cover this problem. If they are not there, the problem will become very acute and will continue to grow where it is happening. You said you weren't a revolutionary, you were a reformer. I would say that, Minister, judging by these matters, you are a revolutionary reformer, which, of course, is no comfort to you. Two, three words about waiting lines. For the first time, if I understood the Minister, very great progress has been made here. Of the approximately 70,000 waiting numbers you've reduced by two thirds. I'd like to believe you, but I'm trained in the tradition of empirical theory and empirical practice, analysis. So, Empires, checks. How can you say that if it is not a serious methodologically justified definition, what kind of waiting line is it? The only truly well-founded approach is "ex-post". So how many, for example, today's operative patient, say, per kilo, is waiting from the moment the diagnosis was given and was sent to the medical facility with a travel agent? That's what I want to know, not how much you're saying he'll wait for this or another operation. You didn't give us that information and you don't have it. If there is no national waiting line for individual types of health services, this is a perfect option of manipulation. 'Cause it's true, in New Town, I think you're going to be in a very quick turn in a private office for a black op. But in Ljubljana, let's say you have to wait extremely long. Add one short and this long line in Ljubljana, and you will get what is important. However, if you were to send everyone to Novo Mesto, you have made a waiting line in New Town just as long. Thus, if there is no national waiting list for individual services, there is no real verification of what is happening and what is not happening. Of course, if you're collecting information on the phone from scared health department directors, I don't think the data is too good. Also, the story I read in the newspaper when the Health Insurance Office provided some kind of data, and then it had to give some other more friendly types of data, of course, is interesting in itself. And what is the secret of the waiting species? Mr. Secretary, you know as well as we all do, there are no secrets. With the help of facts - and this is most clearly stated by the expert director of the Clinical Center, who said that waiting periods depend on the amount of money that comes into the system. If more comes, waiting rows will be smaller, if less comes, waiting species will be longer. If you spend too much money on drugs, too much on helicopters, waiting lines will therefore be larger. I'm also concerned about the way, Mr. Minister, your reactions to these findings, often through political disqualification. Among other things, I am simply too old to be a member of the former ZSMS, which I have never been a member of myself. But I worked with her, and I joined her when she transformed into LDS. However, I must defend this same ZSMS, as well as people such as Školč, Janša, Bavčar, Anderlič and others who at the time offered some new concepts, some new solutions, while, Mr Minister, you and everyone else were still involved in the self-government Latvian arts of labour and resources. Therefore, it is also necessary to have some decentities and some to say politeness to things that you cannot judge as being exactly what they are. And that's it for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u81	Thank you. The Minister shall be involved in the debate. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe you should just start at the end, even the best. When only private health care in Slovenia would be difficult to predict. I don't think so for a long time. That's why, at the primary level, I speak for a number of reasons. First of all, there is obviously no political will or need for this and doctors are not prepared for this. I have to say, according to the medical examiner, only half the doctors are about ready to go to private. Why, you'll probably understand. Because it is a very difficult business, because this business is much harder than a safe business in a health care home, because it is not only up to itself but also up to others. Therefore, this way is safer, even better, perhaps slightly less paid, but in any way safer and easier. That's why doctors don't make decisions. This is said to be a voluntary transition to privacy, which I have mentioned at the outset, and I am not about to change my mind about it as - say - they did in Estonia, where they made a mistake. But that's what the Croats did, and now, after initial problems, they've got things going on in this area. And speaking of individuals across Europe, I must tell you that there is a very different situation at the primary level in Europe. I must say that this depends on the health organisation system and where there is a social health insurance system, the interesting proportion of self-employed doctors is very high. These are Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg. Practically 100% of appropriate health care is in, it is said, this family doctor or general doctor is in private hands. The same applies to some other countries that do not have this system, such as Denmark, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Great Britain and Hungary. However, Hungary has only recently begun to introduce this system since 2004. And, of course, these are systems. Hungary had 12% in 1998, and now has 85%. Slovenia had, by comparison, a small percentage in 1998, now this percentage is about 20%. However, there are countries that do not have this system in their own hands. This is in the public sector, of course. And these are Finland, Portugal, Spain and Sweden. In these countries, a relatively low percentage of self-employed general physicians are. That's what I'm saying for the primary level. And when I spoke to the Spanish Minister recently, I must say that Spain is very interesting in this area. As a percentage, Spain has only 4% of these self-employed, private, private physicians in public health, at the expense of one of the provinces. Only Catalonia has decided on such a system. There are provinces inside Spain, and each province organizes this system in its own way. Catalonia is one of the provinces that has the same system - as, say, the Germans. All other provinces have practical features. It is not possible to work with private work in the public sector. And so it is in Portugal, so it is in Finland and Sweden. Now this is about the systems that exist in Europe. Here I did not take into account the countries that joined the European Union at the same time with us, because they went to another system - as I said - practically. They all went with some kind of law, some kind of decision on this privateity in basic health care. I also recently met with the Minister of Health, the Netherlands. He was a little surprised about this system of ours, and I tried to explain why it was so. Because it has its historical base and is impossible to change things in another direction at a time, because it would mean significantly greater problems than staying and slowly building a new one. Now, separation of concessionaires from state public health professionals or doctors. This was one of the options at the beginning. It was not clear whether it was a better option to go into this separate system, a completely separate system, but both in the public sector, because otherwise a clean private sector without the public sector, without this public participation in Slovenia can not exist. I don't know or actually know very few institutions or individuals that are pure private. Some dentists are precisely because the supplement to dental services is relatively small and therefore there is no big difference. And that's why these dentists actually work as clean privateists without a concession. Among general doctors, this is called family doctors, and in other areas there is virtually no possibility of this happening. No, it's not because I'd go down like that right now. Therefore, such a system as it is now, after some consideration, has been proposed or adopted by the Ministry as one of the possible options. As far as I'm concerned, you've put a matter in my mouth right now that I have to tell you again. In fact, I agree with you that it is important that this waiting period, for me, if I am a patient, I call after a general doctor's decision that I need a specialist examination or surgery and that it is crucial for me the time when I call, when I call and get a date, this is the right waiting period for me, but not the one that has been used all the time lately and we use it in some areas, because we have to use it to compare it with the previous period. Otherwise, it's the right time I'm talking about. And if I call today or if you call an internal or surgical clinic in Ljubljana for heart surgery, an internal clinic for coronation, they'll tell you that you'll be waiting as a patient in a heart surgery for a maximum of one and a half months. This is a significantly smaller waiting period than it was before. I'm not gonna talk right now. The same is true for grey marshmallows, the same is true for hernias, gallstones, all that is listed in our response to interpolation. And we are here, in addition to waiting times calculated in the old way, the so-called realized waiting periods, we have taken this into account, especially these criteria when they are called for surgery or for review today and how far it is. They are also longer, of course, not to say no, but in Slovenia there are very short waiting periods for each area and it is possible, with free choice of course, to go to surgery or to another place for inspection. Regarding waiting periods, we do anonymous surveys and not the directors, we don't ask the directors about it, we ask the director only then, not for waiting periods, but for programmes, how many additional programs are able to do hospitals for individual work if there are additional funds that we can then give to shorten waiting periods or additional programmes. We ask them there, but we don't ask the principals for waiting periods. Now maybe you didn't understand that correctly about the political disqualification of the ZSMS, because I couldn't remember the shortcut, it was just a problem, but otherwise I didn't underestimate the organization as such. But I was saying that this was a very short time when the ZSMS decided to eventually privatize and that this is a little bit compared to those last 50 years that have passed. I'm just so into clarifying the situation about some things. As far as Mrs Shirce is concerned, I must say that I have been negotiating with the social partners and I have been negotiating all the time, and in fact this agreement of mine has been running in this direction, but I have already explained it once before, and I would not explain again why it has dragged on so long. The main reason is that the negotiators came to negotiate 'with a fig in their pocket' with the aim of getting the negotiations as close as possible. Of course, it's not in the interest of patients, not me, not the medical department, in short, no one. And that's the interest he feels today. What's happening now with the re-examinations, I just landed on them, not because of the interpolation, without worrying that no, it wasn't the reason, but I wanted to give them another chance to actually talk without "fike in my pocket" about some things. In view of the conversations I had with union representatives and representatives of employers, I must say that I am optimistic, I hope that this time is not unjustifiable. The one about subjugating a health insurance company in the same way as RTV was supposed to happen. If you read the proposal of a congregation of health insurance companies, you see that this does not mean that in this case we could have any direct influence, the state, on the insurance company itself. There is a minority share of the country, but it is certain that trade unions do not have as much role as they do now, and that is true, and I agree with that and I think that is the case. Trade unions must play an appropriate role in the management and assembly of the insurance undertaking itself. My many promises and "med and milk" - I think there's some honey, some milk, some water, but in every way it's hugely done compared to what I got when I came to the ministry. What I have promised about the laws that I will not be able to adopt during this period before me, I must say that we will adopt these laws, we will propose them if they are adopted, it is up to you; we will propose them, we will propose them as I think they could be adopted. However, I must say that we do not write these proposals today - laws. These bills are prepared and each of these laws, which has not yet been adopted and on the Government's agenda, have only individual issues. As I said before, somewhere there is a need to agree with the profession, somewhere there is a need to provide finance, this is a big problem, but in every way the law is ready and in this form, even a good law, but at some points it still needs to be added, it is not without it. To meet, I did not understand very well with the representatives of the Roman Catholic Church - did you say so? I think you said something about it. I meet with them as much as anyone else, and anyone who wanted to come to me at the Ministry to talk to me about a matter, I accepted it, now that it was from the Roman Catholic Church, and I think there was nothing at all at the Ministry, but I am meeting, usually, with everyone I meet who wants to talk to me and who wants to tell me something or explain it to me. Only this has to be said about the payment of contraceptives - on this occasion of course, otherwise a broader professional discussion is possible - that all medicines that are payable are paid on the basis of a decision of the Health Council. The Health Council is the one who proposes to me on the basis of different criteria, payment or non-payment or reimbursement of medicinal products costs. Here are some funds that are more recent and where the side effects are supposed to be somewhat smaller. So I don't really see any problems here. If the profession decides to make this change, we will have to calculate how much it weighs and then calculate into the financial system of the health insurance company. Epidural delivery - it's a matter of institutions for now. The problem is only where there are too few anaesthetics to carry out these epidural births in a large number of cases. I kind of accept this possibility that in the future we are trying to find some means. But the problem is that it's not just about money, it's about people, it's about personnel, it's very important here. In fact, an epidural birth requires a significantly higher number of personnel, not just money, but personnel, as is the case with normal births. As for waiting periods for artificial fertilisation, we have recently increased the percentage of resources for this, saying, for the first time in 2005, for artificial fertilisation. I must say that the law adopted in 2000 and still in force is fully implemented. However, we are somehow in agreement to increase the possibilities for more cases by reducing these attempts from 6 to 4, but so far the profession is not unified and does not have a uniform approach to the implementation of this project. As for some of the questions concerning my view of contraception, artificial fertilisation and abortion, this is regulated by the legislation in force and I have no major reservations here to make this a different direction than it is currently being regulated. So I don't think there's any chance of any insinuation. As far as the patient's rights are concerned, Mr Petek, I would like to believe that you are concerned about the patient's rights, as I am concerned and that everyone who has solved this problem before us should be as concerned about it as anyone who has solved it and has not solved it. This law, which was tabled by the LDS Group as a proposal for a law to be dealt with in Parliament, was, as I mentioned earlier today, practically the same law that the previous Ministry drafted as a proposal for a law to be dealt with in Parliament. This law was not granted, it did not go through any public debate and it did not allow the adoption of any good law. The law that we are proposing has gone through public debate, public debate, through many debates also within the profession, and I think that this law is actually going to lead to some changes. With this law, of course, we will do a lot of things. Greater kindness, safety, quality of health services, protection of minors, mentally disturbed and other persons, vulnerable groups of patients. Complaint procedures will be resolved as easily as possible. Most of these complaints will have to be resolved in health establishments directly in the case of designated persons for the resolution of complaints or in larger offices at the level of the Commission, in which civil society and lay public representatives will also participate. A Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Patients would be set up at the country level following this proposal. Professional representatives will work in the regions in the protection and exercise of patient rights. That's a suggestion. However, there is still a possibility that from this system, I will say, professional representatives of the patient's rights, that we will also give the Ombudsman a chance at national level. It's also in the coalition contract that we wrote at the time of the government's takeover. However, the debate is currently possible in both directions. The money for the operation of this system, one or the other, is already provided in the budget. So, of course, it is premature now to say which system will master. The current Ombudsman was in the interview I had with him in this regard, strongly against the institution of the Ombudsman. And that's why, even in this direction, that's one reason why we didn't approach it in as vehement a way that we could otherwise. As far as self-criticism and what you've been talking about, and the President of the Medical Chamber, it's hard to comment, but in this way, the President of the Medical Chamber here wanted to say that, of course, health homes will be more than their role will fail, more so that it changes with its content. Mrs Pecanova had quite a number of questions and I should focus on some of these issues. Who's covering helicopter transport, emergency transport, financial? This will be financially covered by a health insurance company in the context of health services. It can't be any different. This is a compulsory health insurance and the funds for this are in the 2007 plan - they will be provided. As regards supplementary insurance for the poor now covered by the municipalities, this is partly regulated by the envisaged Health and Health Insurance Act, which has not yet been adopted and is still in coordination. She also talked about the frenzy of supporting concessions. I don't support any concessions in any way. I don't know how many times I've said it today. I just don't reject or prevent concessions. And once again, concessionaires don't want to be everyone. Those who want to be concessionaires are only half. What is the difference now between the concessionaire as a public worker and government public workers, however, is much more the answer. Now one thing is, we all know that we are missing health workers, and that public servants have limited working hours. And, of course, we want to achieve a greater number of services to a doctor, and we are therefore aware that, when we reduce all employees in public services in the future, we will be able to arrange for doctors and nurses to do more than the legislation applicable to public servants allows them. And this is a great advantage to cover the lack of doctors. On the basis of our proposal, however, the Government has decided that the reduction of public servants for doctors and nurses is not valid for a nurse. However, there is a reduction in hospitals for all those administrative personnel that are not necessarily necessary to work with patients. That case you told about the nurse that she doesn't have some kind of nurse concessionary, it's important to know that this is happening, a specific case, I don't think now in general. Now that I know that this is too small somewhere, I need to know clearly, and in this case administrative supervision is done there. I'd do it right now if I got the chance I did with a report like this, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] [[...]] However, I would like to have a slightly longer answer to Mr Squill's questions. That deserves a longer answer. I don't care about the financial health of doctors. Make sure you don't, or your sisters. However, I want doctors, nurses and other health workers to receive the payment they deserve for their hard work. Yes, and in every way, and I will always devote a lot of my work to it. This does not mean that I will do anything to harm the health of the patients, even so far I have not; everything I have done in my life as a doctor and now as a minister, I have done for the well-being of the patients, nothing bad. And that's why it's sneezing to take care of - it's such a beautiful winged, it sounds good, the newspapers are writing, but it's very little important and it's not real. I care about the financial health of healthcare providers and care for the health of patients because I am also appointed and will do so in the future. Now, the decline in public health funds, of all public funds, is an integral part of reform policies, virtually most developed countries, in order to make these more competitive in global markets. And the gross social product in Slovenia is falling behind in the participation of public health funds due to the national consensus on falling below real wage growth for gross social product growth, but still in real terms or costs are rising. This means that funds for health care are not actually falling, but we do have the impression that a smaller real increase in wages and pensions is the most important source of compulsory health insurance. In the framework of the 2005 partnership negotiations, the Ministry of Health allocated 15.5 billion additional resources to the programme, and in 2006 more than 21 billion, which fully confirms the indication of an absolute increase in funding for the expansion of programmes and health. What you are looking at in the budget to reduce by 3% from 21 billion to, I don't know, maybe 20.5 billion in a period of one year, is the result of a policy that applies to all ministries and is not only for the Ministry of Health, but for health in these years we have spent or spent so much more money as I have just said here. In 2005, the insurance company reported a share of 6.68 gross social product, of which the share of compulsory health insurance expenditure was 6.30 and in 2001, representing the first year of the previous mandate, the proportion of public health expenditure was 7.13%. A comparison with the enlargement programme during the previous term shows that the enlargement programmes, despite a small proportion of expenditure on health insurance in the first year of the current mandate, have already been allocated 2.4 times more to operators than on average per year in the previous mandate. However, the enlargement data for the period 2001-2004 are shown in one of the tables attached. And the enlargements mentioned in 2005 only made it possible to increase this programme by 10,000 cases within the framework of an acute treatment programme. Despite the small proportion of expenditure on health insurance, its planned and paid coverage of the programme increased by a substantial number, including in the previous mandate. And I can conclude by finding that the health system in the current mandate is more effective in terms of the relative level of health resources than it was before. However, it should not be forgotten that the higher share of health expenditure on compulsory health insurance during the period 2001-2004 also contributed to the financing of the implementation of programmes based on the negative business of the insurance undertaking. The conclusion is that there would be no further extension of the programme during the period 2001-2004 if the insurance undertaking had to operate positively. All extensions of programmes in the previous mandate have been financed on the basis of the negative business of the insurance undertaking, what is not happening now. According to the proposal of the Health Insurance Office, the negotiators for 2009 will still be the same, that is to say, the Ministry of Health, the Insurance Office, the Medical Chamber, the Association of Institutions, the Community of Medical Institutions, the Community of Social Institutions and so on. So we can see that the health resources did not decrease during this period. On the contrary, with the convergence programme we covered the lack of medical bills from the previous period and at the same time significantly increased funds for the expansion of programmes and for the reduction of waiting periods. You're afraid for quality. Quality increases, quality increases in health care. So I think that's one thing that's not real and that you've never proved anywhere before. As for some approaches and some arrangements, I must say that sometimes I will find some thinkers for some changes in the health system and also in the organisation of health care, as a result of the Law on Public-Private Partnership. Although this law is not my area, it also covers health care. And I knew well about all the changes in this law or this law, which is where we can follow. I must say that it is also by some of the Social Democrats that we have recently reached the exact same opinion at a meeting, in a lecture. I was just surprised, pleasantly surprised, that there was such a unified view of one of the lecturers of the public-private partnership system on this side as I do. I think that this is also a good journey forward, and nothing harms the further development of health care, on the contrary, it will bring a number of benefits. And the fact that it is even more important than that will also bring savings to the health treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Anderlich wishes to speak with you on a case-by-case basis. Here you go. I've seen more than one hand, so decide who's first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Today we have heard quite a few discussions on waiting times, granting concessions and also managing the health system. On the inside, we have also heard a story about the management of helicopters and such services. I myself or myself recall that when the Government decided to purchase military helicopters and helicopters for the purposes of the Ministry of the Interior at that time, these helicopters were also procured to provide certain services within the health system, so specific helicopters were bought, so more resources were spent and there were thus documents in terms of the justification of the budgets and the relevant decision of the Government. I wonder, of course, when the current Government has decided that the previous decisions, the existing decisions of the Government and the National Assembly will be lifted, will be reversed. We want information on this because, of course, it is of paramount importance; we are also interested in the opinion and position of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, in fact, what this decision of the Ministry of Health means in terms of rational management of those funds which were purchased at the time and for which there was a substantial amount of funding allocated at that time than would otherwise have been. Clearly, this is now the decision of the Government and of these ministries at the time, the current Minister of State and we want documents, data and, of course, the opinions and views of the competent ministers, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Home Affairs. Therefore, for further discussion, we ask for answers to this question, we request data and information and we propose that the National Assembly on this decision and that it adopts a decision to obtain these conclusions and information in order to ensure the participation of the two remaining ministers at the same time, of course, we are interested in how and how these two ministers will ensure the rational use of these funds, which were then acquired. So my procedural proposal is to put this to a vote, to vote on it. We demand that we define ourselves immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u85	Thank you for your proposal. As you know, the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the practice of the National Assembly for this point have been fully fulfilled. I believe that the Minister will answer your answers during the debate or your questions during the debate. I will not give him my word now because he has no right to comment on a procedural proposal on the basis of our Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, I won't interrupt. As chairman of the meeting, I will not interrupt the meeting, we have spoken during the morning at the college, we know that the meeting will last until 22 p.m. My friend Anderlich, a new procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u86	Mr. Chairman. In view of all that you have said and of the circumstances that we know, in accordance with Article 73, the last paragraph and the last sentence, you must make available to the National Assembly or decide to obtain information, because if the National Assembly decides that it wants certain information, it is necessary to obtain it. And that's up to the National Assembly. Finally, Article 73 discusses when the National Assembly decides to obtain certain information, the meeting shall be suspended if decided by the National Assembly. You put to the vote and let the National Assembly decide whether or not to suspend the meeting. You do not have the discretion to decide, as President, whether or not to suspend the meeting. There is no Minister of Defence here, there is no Minister of the Interior, and we want precise data. During this time available for discussion below, it would be necessary to obtain this information and therefore please put to the vote a procedural proposal which has been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u87	Thank you for another procedural proposal. My answer is the same. I'm not interrupting the National Assembly. I won't even put your proposal to the vote. Today we will have an hour and 30 minutes to discuss. I will not give another word in connection with procedural proposals. I believe they're all going in the same form. We will continue the debate. Comrade Squeakle, is it procedural? Proposal for the same content or other content? Another content, then please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u88	Mr President, allow me first to clarify the substantive second procedural proposal, but I will read to you this third paragraph of Article 73: "The President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly, if it is determined," and so on, "and in other cases, where the National Assembly so decides." Thus, the chairman shall suspend the work if, in other cases, such a decision is taken by the National Assembly. Now I'm going to explain this other case. Look, Mr. Chairman. Helicopters are one case. Secondly, even worse is what we have heard today, the Minister here explains that pharmacies have provided information on the names of insurance medicines, but even the Minister of Justice says that such a case has been disputed. The second example, Mr. Minister explained in his replies earlier that doctors deserve a good salary. My question is very simple to bring the Minister of Justice here and ask him: Do doctors deserve better wages than judges? Mr President, given that you have already rejected twice the decision on the procedural proposal to decide in the second case whether or not to obtain the information, please, in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 66, where it is up to you to assess the need to resolve a particular legal question, invite the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service to give an opinion on whether we have the right to conclude that the Government will provide us with information which, at least in those three cases, clearly requires an explanation not only from Minister Bručan, but at least a few more ministers. I think you're in excess of the powers agreed at last night's college meeting. It's clear what you want - you just want to, under the terms, "discuss into the void." Here we want to ensure a debate on these issues. And we need two things to discuss these issues. The first thing we need is government materials. You cannot prevent these materials from being delivered by the Government, but this can only be prevented by the National Assembly if the majority of the National Assembly so decides. Secondly, we propose and, above all, we want to ensure that Minister Bručan at least comes from the coalition to defend. That at least someone from the coalition, who is obviously very tired today, would come here and help defend the Minister or at least further explain the reasons in the government's response. So I think there are some substantive reasons. In addition, we have the right here to obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, or the National Assembly has the right to obtain information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u89	Thank you. The first part of your procedural proposal, which referred to a procedural proposal before you, colleague Rob and colleague Anderlich, will not be taken into account. I explain the Rules of Procedure during the meeting. And the provisions of Article 73, as you stated, I understand otherwise. As regards Article 66 and paragraph 5, I will tell you that I can partially take into account, and the Legal and Legislative Service will prepare answers before tomorrow's session within the next 12 hours of the State Assembly's rest, if that is the case. And we will now continue the session on the basis of the applications. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, no, whoever wants to talk, I'm grateful. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u91	My friend Potts, do you give up?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much. No, I just gave the replica a chance, if you'd allow it, of course, because you're in charge of the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u93	You have the floor, Comrade Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u94	I wanted to make a little joke of it all, because the colleagues and colleagues who proposed the interruption were absolutely right, and also formally it would be possible, Mr Vice-President, to interpret the Rules of Procedure as such, but you have decided otherwise. However, they are certainly right about the fact that this moment may have been more pleasant, but for a while, an hour or two ago it was really impossible. Nobody listened to the minister, the minister wanted to listen, but he couldn't because we were all talking and he couldn't hear. So it was really an impossible atmosphere, and I hope that at least a little for this last hour and a half, as far as we have left, we've fixed it. Mr. Secretary, if you say it's not true, I'll take your word for it. I would like to talk about the five policy issues of the Ministry and the Government, which make me believe that the interpretation is justified. The first concerns the issue of social dialogue with the social partners, mainly related to the Health and Health Insurance Act. This controversy and coordination, or better non-coordination and non-searching or failure to find common solutions, has now been taking place practically since the beginning of the Ministry's work. It is true that, at that time, luckily, the Ministry has adopted a starting point for the issue of compensatory schemes to be dealt with separately, and this issue is positively resolved. On the other hand, the Ministry’s point of view was that material rights should be reduced for the insured. And on the basis of this starting point, all the proposals put forward by the Ministry in the course of coordination have run. And I think that this is a bad starting point, that that's why it couldn't reach agreements and it's not there today. And I would expect that, apart from wanting to violate rights, there will be something else to think about, because the deprivation of rights on the basis of other findings of this Government, especially its President, that the good in this country has never been done as it is today, cannot be the right way to regulate health rights. For the Minister knows better than I do that the health sector is also more expensive because of the development and new diseases and new technologies and new medicines every day and that if we want to keep up with the developed world in any way at this point, we need to increase the share of health care, both in gross social product and elsewhere, but not to think and seek measures only in the direction of reducing rights. Secondly, as regards the social partnership, it has already been mentioned, which means that efforts have been made to form a different composition of the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute, with the desire of the Government to obtain a sufficient number of seats so that it can play a more substantive role and a word in decision-making. We know this as a system of work of this government, in pension insurance, in education, in science, in RTV, everywhere. The situation is going back to the old chariot, but I have to do my job too. I think it's bad, and the Minister of Health, health has put himself in the midst of the whole government's thinking, and he's also been doing this in the field of health. Thirdly, I do not understand and therefore I think that the decision was wrong that the Minister of Health did not come forward when the Government proposed the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers in the area of compensation for the sick. This law, in spite of the attempts made by the minister to harmonise the law, reduced nominally by 5% the current trend of inflation during the year. By 5% a year, the nominal decline in the disease has been due to the fact that it has been coordinated once a year, it is now coordinated once a year, there is no degree of coordination, and inflation plus a real increase in wages is about 5%. That's the government's data. I think that this is a heavy burden which the insured have accepted on the account or on the altar of the country and that now it is landing and at the same time fighting to reduce the rate of contribution while at the same time determining how well we are doing, Mr Minister, it is not understandable. And I don't accept this policy and this way of thinking, because it's just a policy that suits the situation in the government, but it's not thinking about how to ensure a higher level of health care for the population. And last, which also means your agreement, at least quietly, with the government policy that we do not accept in social democracy, is the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which is linked to public-private partnership in former social activities or in the field of public health, education, child protection and more. We firmly believe that in this area a public-private partnership would be acceptable and beneficial only if carried out in institutions, in organisations based on their work on a non-profit basis. As soon as profit is a fundamental driver for the realization of a public-private partnership in the field of health or education or child care, this is the wrong starting point. This is a starting point that no longer fulfils the fundamental objective of ensuring public interest in these areas. In these areas, however, public interest must be ensured. And, according to our behaviour, the Minister was silent in this regard and agreed that the Public-Private Partnership Act should also be adopted in the field of health. This is very important to me to the wrong starting points of this ministry, and we, in addition to the other things we have been talking about, are sufficient to be able to interpret. However, I would be grateful if the Minister would say that I am wrong and that he thinks of all these things that I have been talking about completely differently, or that he has acted differently, or that he has been prevented from doing otherwise in the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u95	Thank you. Member Aloys Posedel has the floor. A replica of who? To the Minister? Here you go. Comrade Squeakle, will you have a replica or not? Make up your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Minister said that he was not the Minister for Financial Health of Performers and that he was not the Minister for Financial Health of Minister Bajuk. Mr Minister, I must tell you that all savings, virtually all savings in the use of public funds made by the Government of Mr Janez Janša, are at the health treasury. The share of public consumption in the health register alone is decreasing. And even though, even though - I will say, you interrupt Mr Sok, even though it is true that we have the wage movement we have, and the pensions we have, explain, Mr Minister, why do you think it is appropriate to reduce the sicknesses by 1/5. Why will the diseased share of public spending decrease by 1/5? From 0.64% gross domestic product to 0.52, for 1/5. Why will other transfers to individuals, funerals, transportation costs, etc. be reduced by 1/5? Why, compared to 2005 when it was intended for medicines, for goods and services to health care agencies and medicines, a total of 2.5 - 2.6% of the gross social product in 2008 will, according to the proposals adopted, spend one third of the gross domestic product, less or almost real 20 billion money less. Why, Mr. Minister, have you agreed as Minister of Health to take care of Mr. Bayuk's health or the health of Slovenian public finances and is the only reduction in the share of public consumption on the shoulders of the health treasury? Why did you allow, Mr. Minister, that instead of providing money for secondhand and doctors in the state budget, you would demand that an additional health-care programme be reduced by half? A few ten thousand services will be less implemented. And Mr. Minister, you said you wanted the doctors to earn more than the judges, that you wanted the doctors to earn more than the judges. Mr first concessionaire said I have earned about 2,000 euros so far, and now I deserve about 3,000 euros. And this is the main guide to why you want and why you gave concessions to some. And if you believe that more services will be possible if the price of the service is higher, then of course we understand mathematics differently. That's why, Mr. Minister, I'm reciting the subject. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u97	Comrade Squeakle, please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u98	that you say that you are not the one who is particularly concerned about the financial health of doctors. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u99	Thank you. Shirtz's emissary, a replica. Here you go. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u100	Mr. Mag. Bručan, it is funny to say that you do not want to have a dominant influence in the Assembly of the Management Board of the Health Insurance Institute. You put it together in exactly the same way as the RTV programming world, here in the National Assembly the so-called civil society will come and rule at the will of the Government, clearly the unions are not satisfied with this, even more, and the Alliance of Retired Society will then have a completely different role. This is undoubtedly and you will succeed as you did on RTV. Second thing. You said you should ask the Health Council about birth control, but, Mr. Mag. Bručan, The Health Council was asked about expensive helicopter transports - there was no question about water - whether anyone else was asked - did not. There's no need. And you say that births are not just about money, they're about frames. But it's free on the Jesenits. But free of charge in what way, who pays for it? And they are, if you pay, of course they are. That's why we're saying that your health system - you're introducing the Ministry of Payable Health rather than health care. And yet another mistake that has occurred to you, whether you are aware of it or not, is not true that today women can be vaccinated against cervical cancer, of course they can pay 350 euros, they cannot be vaccinated because you have to sign an agreement because it has to be published in the Official Journal, this is verified, you have to ask how the ministry works for you, and only then can it happen. But, still payable, still for 350 euros and will still be the disease that currently threatens women's health the most in Slovenia, remains dangerous or remains safe only from those who will have money, because here too the Health Council, which you say could give an opinion, will, as you say, have to decide in cases where expensive helicopter transport did not need to say anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u101	Thank you. A colleague of Gantar also applied for a replica of the implementation of the Minister. Here you go. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! Waiting years. Now let's operate on some data. The most visible and important issue is waiting time for open-heart operations, with which the minister also praised that the number of operations had increased and the number of those waiting had decreased. Let's look at the data. In 2001, the number of operations was 862, with 354 pending. In 2002 operations 985, pending 598. In 2003, Operation 1092, awaiting 535. In 2004 1553 operations pending 156. Of course, in the following year, the whole number of operations decreased slightly by a few tens or tens of operations, and since this number was reached earlier, the tail was clearly reduced in the end. What you deserve is that you have kept the number of open-heart operations at some level and because it was kept at this level roughly, this type has clearly decreased. I would not like to go with you now to the debate on public and private health, theoretical concepts, but I have told you clearly, what we now have with these concessions in public health institutions is a combination of bad qualities and one and another system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u103	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Aloys Posedel has the floor. He's not here. Member Villa Trofenik has the floor. He's not here. Member Lakhovnik has the floor. He's not here. I give my word to a magician. Janez Petty Officer. He's not here. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! How serious is the intention of the biggest opposition party after the interpretation, also showing this now, I will say, the implementation of the President. There's no one, because he just doesn't know what to say, but you're all winding up here because there's just one procedural thing that wasn't what you imagined in your head, respected proponents. But last but not least, as already presented in the introduction, the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group is not everything in health as it should be, but of course it is rather unrealistic to prepare for interpolation in the way you are preparing; it is said to be in the opposite and with some procedural ones that you would like for some time. Mr. Secretary, some things may also be on my part, which I do not like about your work. A few words have been said in this House on waiting lines. You claim that waiting types, as well as statistics, have decreased in certain segments of health care and for people. I must say that the statistics I have seen myself say that the latest statistics represented by Members of the National Assembly show that it is possible to do so as you state. Indeed, in certain segments, in certain diseases waiting types have decreased - but how they have decreased! For example, the waiting line with the cardiologist has decreased during your ministry from 670 to 650. Either this is due to your work or this is due to the reduction of this disease, but we will never find out, you can say that you have done well, and we will say that this country or people in this country have become aware of less cardiological problems. It is not said that your policy is the one or I know that your policy is not one that would reduce waiting types. The operating tables, the affair that raised you up in the sky and made you a minister who was dealing with an affair. I must say that the whole affair was at the end when it was realized and you allowed, but very interestingly, allowed - that Maribor was the first to get the operating tables, because I don't know if I should say thank you for that, given that I am a Mariborian myself, or let me tell you, forgive me, it was so transparent and so obvious that you did it during the pre-election campaign where we know who was running for mayor of Maribor. I don't know if you really had the intention to help a Maribor hospital or if all this was set up just because local elections were taking place. And one more thing. You know, under your ministry, nothing like this has happened in health care that you should be congratulated for. I will say, even if the Minister of Health were not at this time, the situation would be as it is. Health has now become a privilege and not a good thing, which we stand for in the Slovenian National Party. That is why I must say that I will support this interpellation on my own, despite the fact that the proponents are defending it in some strange way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u105	Thank you. The Minister re-entered the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! As far as the agreement on the operation of the helicopter service is concerned, we'll probably be discussing it tomorrow, if I understand correctly. But I still have a few things to say to Mr. Rope. Indeed, the agreement of all three ministries was that this would happen; not just an agreement, even more than that. The Ministry of Defence, I said once before, and once again, one year ago, decided that a military helicopter rescue project would no longer be continued. This was the basic reason that we went to prepare the project that was being drawn up, you will be able to say again, for too long, for one year, and now we are implementing it. The military part of the rescue remains a solution in the mountains that is not included in this solution, which we are now talking about, the so-called primary helicopter flight or the primary helicopter rescue. This part, however, includes a secondary helicopter rescue, meaning inter-hospital, inter-hospital transport of patients with this helicopter. In the following year, if the financial situation allows, we intend to extend this to the Maribor area, thereby creating two helicopter rescue centres, which means that we would approach the Austrian system to 70%. So far, from Ljubljana or from Brno, we are covering a circle of 50 kilometers, 70 kilometers at the time which is optimal, the remaining solutions are now in a period of time, but still acceptable, but we also want to improve it in the future. This is, as has been so far, one centre is now in the future, and the second year we intend to extend it to Maribor, but this is a matter of agreement between ministries and there was no will of our ministry, even about no, I guarantee you that. A lot of discussions, talks were needed in this sense that we had taken this decision or that we had taken a decision that the Ministry of Defence had somehow suggested that the pilot project should be terminated. But it's a significantly better system, it's a much faster access, it's a significantly better helicopter equipment, and the helicopter is available all the time, while the military helicopter wasn't. Let me tell you that this is much better for patients and that it is possible to rescue patients in a faster way. That's what we've all come up with, and the helicopters we're dealing with, you can't believe, I'm still in the former country, I'm in Yugoslavia setting up a rescue service. That's when they told us to go with the centre to Belgrade and then drive the patients from there. It was a little strange, but in every way, we started off in 1987 with this thing, so we broke it off in 1990 for one year. Please! Stopped for a year and then resumed with inter-hospital flights and flights, which are now also pre-hospital flights. I know this thing very well and you must know that I have been somehow involved in the organization as an organizer of emergency medicine in Slovenia all the time. I can ensure that the optimal option is agreed upon by all competent authorities. As far as the answer to Mr Potsch's question is concerned. Our desire to violate our rights, our desire to violate our rights, is exactly the same as zero. We do not want to violate justice, we wanted to redistribute certain rights with the new Health Care and Health Insurance Act. Redistribute certain rights. And among them was the proposal to reduce the hospital absence after 30 days. We have found that this proposal was put in place at the time, but today it is no longer realistic in such a form, so we have practically turned it to its original starting point, in agreement with the trade unions. Here's where I'm going to say I don't have the ability to deal with social partners. Apparently, I know that because I agreed to this, I've also seen at this time that, actually, the five percent of the patients you're talking about have actually shrunk now. I think that this is the right approach, that we do not harm patients and insured persons more than it is necessary to maintain the system, not to harm them at all and to give them the best possible treatment. As a matter of fact, no infringement of rights has occurred within the Health and Health Insurance Act, nor has the original proposal. No, no, not even the original proposal. The original proposal made it clear, if you calculate, that the rights in some areas are greater, for example, in those areas where supplementary health insurance is paid to those insured persons who cannot pay for it. And by redistributing the rights from the hospital, we wanted to pay this part of the insurance to those insurance companies that couldn't pay the insurance. It is only a reallocation of rights within the system, there is absolutely no distortion of rights here in the sense that less money will be prepared for use in the healthcare system. That's what all calculations can show. It is true, however, that in some areas of the law we wanted to equalise some of the weaknesses in the previous system and thus save some money. We wanted to achieve something? We wanted to achieve that everyone would pay approximately equal contributions to health insurance. We know today that there is actually a big difference here and that some self-employed people are not as burdened as those who are employed in some other services. And that's what we wanted to equalize. Here we have reached some agreement recently, including at this point, so that we can also put this into this bill. As far as the public-private partnership is concerned, I've already told you. I think we will actually strive to do this in the future, so that public-private partnership in health will not mean profit. And what we talked about, as I mentioned before, at a recent conference in this regard, private institutions should of course be non-profit-making. In this sense, making a profit, a direct profit. And of course, such a private institution will have completely different views and options as a public institution, I think that is clear. The public institution is entangled in a system of some principles, rules that are still in fact impeding it, this is an inheritance that also prevents it from paying for the work done in the way that a private institution can do. And I'll tell you again, this is crucial for development, for development of the health system and for saving in the health system. Personally, I'm not in favour of profiting in the healthcare system. No, on the contrary. It's a system introduced by America, and I'm against such a system, I'm not up for it. I am absolutely in favour of settling in a way that is normal in Europe, this system in private work in the public sector, but without some absolute profit opportunities that exist, say, in the United States system. That's possible, and that's what your client friend and I at the last event came together in terms of this situation. As far as the replica is concerned. About cardiovascular patients and the number of surgeries. I don't know how much you know the chronograph system and heart surgery. In fact, the number of patients depends on both. If the number of chronographies and dilations increases, the inflow of patients to surgery is already significantly reduced. Sometimes these patients were all operated on. Today, most of these patients will now be greeted without surgery, better of course with dilation, coronation and dilation. And if you consider that we have significantly increased the number of chronographies and dilations, that means, in other words, that with the same or slightly higher number of patients we can also keep, at least keep or reduce the number of all operations. And I think this is the first time a cheaper way, a better way for a patient, and, of course, it also allows a faster flow, shorter waiting periods. And that's the systemic way that led to these results. I wouldn't even read those numbers, but I could read them. The total number of cardiovascular patients treated with coronarys, invasive interventions and operations, all three of them combined, increased from 6,500 in 2004 to 9,000 patients, i.e. 2,400 patients or 36% more. This year - I have already read this before today, I will not read again - 11,000 patients will be treated together this year. The number of waiting was reduced from 1.725 to 400. Now I'm talking about the total number of patients who are being led from this Pula so-called cardiovascular patients. And yet in all three cardiovascular and two intervention centers, as I said, the waiting period is shorter than a month. And all the emergencies, I repeat, are being dealt with immediately. So the data I show here tell us how much we have increased the services actually provided in this area if we take it as a group that is connected. As far as vaccination against human papilloma is concerned, I have to repeat the same thing almost as I said before. The vaccine, but there's no other, because actually what I said was true. It is currently possible to vaccinate, and doctors can vaccinate at the request of a patient. Of course they have to pay now. And besides, you have to tell me, because in the world, this vaccine is currently payable from compulsory insurance. Here, of course, we will have to approach in the same way as other countries, gradually get this money for this, but of course we know that this moment is impossible. This has nothing to do with the fact that they are now being vaccinated for payment, but this moment, I can say again, with this vaccine can be vaccinated with the doctor who is qualified to do so, and of course this is in the vaccination programme, which will be possible after the beginning of January at the beginning of next year. That's it for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u107	First to the replica, we invite Ambassador Anton Rope. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I have a replica of what the Minister of Health was doing here. I must say that it is very surprising to me how easily you approach the problem, simply to find out that the Ministry of Defence has just said that this would no longer be possible, that you have agreed to this and have agreed to an additional 400 million costs of reckless spending, a consumption that is contrary to the Government's conclusions. Last but not least, those decisions of the Government and the acquisition itself and the conclusions of this National Assembly at the time of adoption of the budget were committed by the Ministry of Defence and the Government to using those helicopters used at the time, and so also in other countries. I will read to you what Mr Borut Miklavčič has told you, or written by Mr Miklavčič, who speaks - and this puts you in a strange light, because you have said that these transports, which will now be organised, will be significantly better, suitable, etc., but the director of the health insurance company tells you that these helicopters have gone smoothly and well and that once again they cannot agree with a solution that is significantly more expensive. Those who have paid for these services tell you that this is good, you are here telling us that it is bad, and with this you apologize for, of course, reckless expenses. However, I am particularly interested, and I think that the entire Slovenian public, why the hell did this Ministry of Defence tell you that he can't give you these helicopters all of a sudden? I am also interested in the calculation, but this is another question, the structure shows that 57 million of these expenditure in 2005 was for the MORS, in short for the Ministry of Defence, 43 for the Ministry of the Interior, so they will still be organised despite all the helicopters carried by the Ministry of the Interior? One more thing, Minister. You're talking to us here about a public private partnership. All literature in the world, as well as experience, shows that public private partnership can sometimes be useful, good if it is well placed and if all contracts are also properly laid down and if control works. You yourself have found out today and admitted here that surveillance does not work and that, of course, this partnership or privacy, as you call it, does not work well. There's something else in the literature that's well known. When you have a public-private partnership, it is normal that it is in the calculation, we have done such calculations, including the rate of return or profit, and this is the first factor why the total cost increases. The other is that usually private partners receive credit at a higher rate, so it is far from the truth what you are trying to tell here is that public private partnership in itself can be more effective as well as non-privateism. And, of course, through some border, privacy, concessions and public-private partnership can work in the opposite direction. And we want to convince you and the entire Slovenian public today that what you are doing, if it continues at this pace, can endanger the Slovenian health system, for which we all find today that it is good, that it is relatively good and, for God's sake, it should not happen to us that we are going in the direction of some other transition countries where exactly this mistake has been made by you. You probably know the case of Hungary well. For many years, I have listened to why this case is not good and where overprivileged privacy, as well as public-private partnership, has led. And if you've taken at least a little of this to your soul and listened a little bit to it, then this interpretation has achieved its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Potrč is on the list for the replica, I just wanted to invite you to the replica, I have all the information you need, and then I will give Mrs. Zalokar a word on behalf of the proponents. [[...]] Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I would trust you if, at any time at the time of the harmonisation of the law or in the course of the debate on it in the National Assembly, any one of the government types would say that our proposal is that, in the field of public-private partnership in the field of public science, culture, health and the like, it should only be carried out with entities operating on the principle of non-profit. Nobody said that, and I can't assume anything but that it was accepted. Now to promise that this may be based on some of the guidelines, there may be guidance, but there may not be guidance. And it is clear that when it comes to individuals who work together to have an interest as a rule, there are exceptions, but usually there are also profits and profit to share and not only invest it then in an activity which should be the purpose. That is why we do not think that this is useful in the field of health. And you've always told us that we don't understand concessions and that we're talking about privatisation, but we don't know that it's not about privatisation, it's about public health. What will now be established through the new Public-Private Partnership Act will be a net privatisation if it occurs, at the expense of public interest and public health. And, Minister, in the course of the adoption of the law, you didn't resist it, so you'd hear it to me, see it, know it, whatever. And now for the percentage of compensation. Your proposal of June 2005, which was amended after a year, but with hard battles, was that instead of 80% of the compensation for all injuries outside the workplace would be injuries in adrenaline sports 50%, injuries outside the workforce 70%, after 2007 even 60%. Instead of 80% of the family member's allowance - 70%, the same for hospital or health care and 60% after 2000. Mr Minister, I must not read any further to you, but I want to tell you that it is not true, what you said, that all things are in harmony and that you have never proposed substantially reduced rates. You have, you have proposed a substantial reduction in the rate, so this coordination is also going on for a year, and I hope that perhaps now that it begins again, there will be some acceptable solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Reploco has a Member of the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u112	Thank you very much. First, on behalf of the proposer or the proposer, I would like to give one explanation to my colleague Zagorec, and I can see that he is not here again. For a moment he came to the National Assembly earlier and found that the LDS Members were not supposed to participate actively enough, he was obviously very little here today, but he does not know how much we have actually discussed and were present, I think that together six hours just Members of the Liberal Democracy. However, Minister, I would like to ask you three or two short questions. I'd like to ask you first, but you didn't explain, and we've already asked you once. Your reply still states that the former Minister for Reform Preparation and in his own party, the rejected White Paper, has spent 750 million tolars and is expected to be assisted by advisers from Australia. We have already explained something to you, and I am now interested in: do you know the programme for the development of the management of the healthcare system, which Slovenia signed in 1999 under the Presidency or under the Ministry of Justice of Mr Jereb, and that is exactly what this should say? So I want you to tell me if you know this program, if you know how much money was spent, because the exact sum that you attribute to the White Paper is the sum that was spent on this program. And I wonder if this program is still running and if you know this content? Since we're talking about counselors here, my second question is as follows. How much did the former director of the Health Insurance Institute, Mr. Franz Koshir, receive for his advice from you at the Ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u113	Thank you. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. He's not here. Member Blackach has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Well, today we've heard a lot of famous things that have been said several times and repeated, but I don't think there's anything wrong with saying another word around them. The so-called operating tables have been on this Parliament's tables many times, even today, and obviously we will also deal with this problem in the context of interpretation in a way that does not belong to interpretation. I think it was a long-standing problem of a former minister who was saved by this minister. It is true that in the face of great opposition to you, who, in changing the law, insisted stubbornly on certain solutions, but after all, the effects are important, the results are important. This minister has achieved that a multi-year complication that the former minister was unable to resolve has been arranged both for the benefit of the patients and for the well-being of the taxpayers. Because the final net effect was that we got these tables substantially cheaper than they would have been, and the procedures were closed. This is a fact and there is not much to debate. Whether the tables were mounted at a particular location during a certain pre-election period is childish, which I do not think are part of this Parliament. Wherever they were installed, it would be a pre-election period, because in the Republic of Slovenia we had local elections everywhere and candidates from various political options came everywhere. There was also a great deal of talk about the Minister’s carrying out the so-called wild privatization in health care. But let's ask ourselves, who initiated legislation in this area? Government under the Presidency of Janez Janša or SDS or Government under the Presidency of the LDS. When was the legislation implemented by this minister adopted under which Government? And what does this minister do on the basis of legislation? We are taking measures to enable health care to be as accessible as possible to all people in this country. What is the border between public and private in this case? The border is that it has the same right and equal accessibility of the user in those who engage in an activity in a public institution as in those who carry out a licensed activity. And for once, this right is guaranteed to all of us. It's the same justice. Everyone between us must have the same accessibility with those who work in a public institution, in a public institution, as with those who have received concessions from the State. I don't think it's about privatisation in this harsh sense, but it's about making this system as effective as possible. In this respect, it is only in this part that it is possible to agree to strengthen control. Every system that is being reformed has certain flaws and health is an indisputably large system. But the priorities of saying that those who have been awarded concessions are worse than those who work in public health, in the public sphere, in public institutions, is wrong. I think it's unfair and unfair to them, but also to the users of these services. And from the point of view of the user, it is important to ask whether the system you have adopted in the past terms of your rule is good or not. This Minister only realizes it in the way that the legislation has been adopted. It is true that it is a little more consistent than you are, but it still implements a system that has been put in place once before. It would be wrong if the services were not equal or if the beneficiaries were not treated equally, but I do not think that this is happening and that what awaits this ministry is, in particular, strengthening this control, which has already been discussed in today's session, not only in this sphere but also in the public sphere. Years ago, we had a case, I think, one of the coastal municipalities where it was found that in a public rescue facility for the same transport four times they charged the service, even though four patients were driving on the same route, in the same ambulance, and probably something like this is still going on, not only there, but also somewhere else. These are the cases that need to be settled, but here I think it's a matter of a system that needs to be constructed definitively. Well, if I finish. In the award of concessions, by the way, they are not under the authority of the Minister, as you yourself have said. A colleague who spoke for two hours at the beginning said that she had granted herself when she was still the mayor, I don't know, seven, eight concessions. It is said that the Minister is now responsible for the mayors of the municipalities which granted these concessions. Whether he should take this responsibility on his shoulders or how we should understand the words that he should command or command some mayors, he told them what to do. I think it's funny. No minister would allow it, and he wouldn't allow it either. The mayors are sovereign in this regard, you are completely sovereign in the congregations, and as you made up your mind, so you made up your mind. You yourself admit that you have sometimes made the wrong decision and that you have had problems with those to whom you have awarded the concession. It may be true, but it can't be the Minister's responsibility. However, he did not grant them these concessions at this primary health level. However, you have all implemented some legislation that has been adopted in the previous period. I do not think that this is the problem and that what has been done in this area in previous years in previous mandates and in this mandate is not wrong because accessibility to these services is equally possible for all. My assessment is that at the time of Minister Bručano's ministry, a number of things have been done. Among other things, it has accelerated investment activity, which was quite dead when he took over the mandate. If you remember, we saw in a 2003 final account that there was a lot of money left in some fund that wasn't spent, that there were problems in funding a pediatric clinic and so on. I think things have changed and run better and differently than they did before. That there is a transformation of the whole system, but of course the process takes a little longer than everyone would like and expected, because it is a complex, heterogeneous system that cannot be changed and reformed overnight, but not in two years. I think the path is right and the ministry is successful in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u115	Thank you. Before giving the floor to our next debater, our colleague Žnidaršič has three replicas: our first replica has a colleague Zagorac to proposers, our second replica of colleague Pavel Gantar to a colleague of Montenegro and later a discussion of the proposaler. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. I must say, I thank my esteemed colleague Zalokar Orazam for missing me. Seriously. Even now, if she's looking for me, give her, colleagues, tell her that I'm here and that the technique has gone so far that we can listen to what anyone says in the offices. I never said this interpolation wasn't active. She was active, but in the way of LDS. This is such a special way that it doesn't belong in some textbook that doesn't belong in one, I'll say, a normal working environment, but this is the way LDS. And that's it. [[background advertising]] , innovative, so -- thank you! In such an innovative way, this interpolation has been created and in such an innovative way, just yours and only yours, you are also defending it. Once again, I thank Mrs Zalokar for missing me, and, Flower, I am in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u117	Comrade Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your word, Your Honor! First of all, my dear fellow Zagorac, on behalf of the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, without consulting her, I assure you that she did not miss you. That's the first thing. The other thing is more serious and, my colleague, I think it's good to take into account some elemental correctness. The elementary correctness regarding the operating tables was, Mr Černač, that the former Minister Dr Dušan Keber had been busy with these tables for four months, then the Government had been replaced, and the current Minister Bručan had been doing so for two years. The basic fact that when we look back, this decision, at such a price, could be taken at all complications in January 2005 at the latest. The basic truth and correctness is that you had to change the law in which you bypassed the traditional procurement procedures by applying a special procedure when it comes to people's lives and so on. And the fundamental truth is, Mr. Cernač, that these tables are not being operated on at the Oncology Institute today. And I'm asking you, does this mean that life goes on? That patients die for this? I ask you whether that is why you have used the law to actually cover up the things and impossibilitys that have taken place in this process of choice. At least what I expect of you, Mr Chernač, and of others, is to take account of the facts. The elementary truth, Mr Chernač, is that these tables are still not operational today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u119	Thank you. On behalf of the proposer, I give the floor to Ljub Germich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I thank Paul for telling part of the elementary truth that needs to be known, Mr Chernač. I would add another part of this fundamental truth that needs to be known. The tables that Minister Bručan could choose were already before the decision in early 2005, at which time he had the same bidders, different tables where he could choose tables of the same quality for more than half the lower price. He did not make a decision, repeated the invitation, after which he decided on the tables, the most expensive tables on the grounds that we Slovenians deserve the best tables. On the basis of the complaints made by one of the tenderers, it was interesting that, in the next process, he had chosen, through direct negotiations, tables which he had previously rejected technologically after usability; and today, of course, the comment was that why this decision had not already been made significantly earlier because the Minister could have taken those decisions earlier. Another matter, Mr. Blackach. Remember that the Ministry gives its consent to each award of a concession at local level, not to forget the opinion, not the consensus; and, of course, in this agreement, it can have a very important impact on whether the concession is eventually awarded or not. Allow me, however, to ask the Minister a few questions. Given that we have different opinions, of course, I still insist that the Ministry of Health in the concession award process did not lead in accordance with the legislation. This calls on the Ministry to take into account the needs of the population for additional services, to produce a video of the network for an appropriate level, a secondary level, and to work in accordance with the state of the network, the Minister of Health has sought to address the apparent imbalances in supply between the municipalities, the areas and the specialities. Please, given that tomorrow's meeting will continue, if the Minister can submit to me tomorrow, he certainly has written analyses on the basis of that argument as to how he awarded concessions, if he can submit to us tomorrow or to all of us what the assessment was like, that is, what the analysis was so that, in view of the imbalances in supply between individual municipalities, areas and specialities, he could decide to grant concessions. I'm sure this won't be a difficult task for the minister. Furthermore, I would like to ask the Minister if, by tomorrow, there is little time, according to his statement, to recalculate the price of medicines, because today he has stated that the studies, the calculations have been prepared for the needs of interpretation on the basis of the current regulation and the methodology in force; and these studies and these calculations have been carried out by three independent institutions. I would like to ask the Minister to submit these studies to all Members and Members of the National Assembly tomorrow to discuss these accounts. And one last question. Given that we are entering the next financial perspective, European funds are available, with which Slovenia participates in a substantial amount. A very interesting information exists that a number of new members or most of the new members have already identified the need to draw funds from this fund and I would ask the Minister that data are not available for Slovenia, which are the orientations of those programmes with which Slovenia will participate in European funds and in what amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u121	Thank you. Comrade Blacky, I'm asking you, a replica of who? To Mr. Germich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u122	Yes, thank you very much. So it's completely irrelevant how long someone's been dealing with the problem, it's important who saved him. Because that's what counts. Now, in order to save your minister, we will never know. We should have won the election and we'd have seen it. We'd probably end up with operating tables under military equipment if you could rule. But let's just drop it. I don't think that's important. The point is that for many years you have not been able to amend the exotic law on public procurement, which not only in this case, but in many other cases prevents normal procedures when the order can fall or is chosen by a tenderer who is not the most suitable because someone else has not submitted a non-significant document, a 'pildka', so to speak, which does not affect the content of the contract. The change that has taken place at the operating tables in this National Assembly has occurred only because such impossibility of perpetuation, when the procedure can be repeated over and over again, is prevented at any time by complaints. Nothing else has been done in this case, given that, as you know, legal protection has still been provided to all tenderers; and those who are not satisfied with the decisions have, of course, turned to the competent courts for legal protection. Despite the fact that much has been heard about how inadequate this law is because it does not provide adequate and effective legal protection. It is also unfair to report to the minister that he has made one decision. But you know, you know very well, and especially you, Mr Germič, because you are more at home in this area, that he has appointed a committee that has proposed a decision for this procedure. It's probably not a matter for a minister to go into every detail of every public contract. With regard to consent to grant concessions, the Minister will probably answer you. Consent is a consensus and the decision is taken in this case, as your colleague said, at the level of local communities or mayors. It is known who is signed under this Decision. If we're honest, it's not even the mayors, it's someone in the municipal administration because the mayor's an appellate body. And to inform the Minister of something that he cannot be responsible for, I think it is unfair and that it is necessary to limit himself to the level where he can bear his responsibility, and not to bring himself here because I have discussed and told objective facts in some way. I said that under this minister, the saga on the operating tables was closed. But when patients are specifically operated on them, it's probably no longer a matter of ministering. However, this procedure is a joint product of the former Minister, not this. Thank you, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u123	Thank you. On behalf of the motioner, Mr Ljubo Germič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Mr. Blackach, the truth is different. It was a matter of protecting, within the framework of public interest, the irrational and uneconomic spending of public funds. Instead of buying for a half-price table of the same quality, it favoured the provider with twice as expensive tables. That was the problem. With the excuse that we Slovenians and Slovenes deserve the best tables. Today the tables are mounted, which were at the time, which are considered different, at least so stated, different technical parameters and we no longer speak here. Mr Černač, if you do not want to hear the facts, this is your problem, because the truth hurts and when we talk about the truth that is documented, it is this: the tables of Sordina were on the table at the beginning of 2005 and there was no decision to do so. There were tables of Trump, which were significantly cheaper than the Macquet table, the decision was for the Macquet tables. And that's exactly what this problem was and the long-term delay procedure of a year and a half to come to a final decision. And under pressure from the public, they bought tables for substantially smaller money. Here's the problem. And I understand that you don't want to accept these truths and explain them in your own way to wash your face.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u125	Thank you. The Minister shall be involved in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I have a few things to answer, because there's not much time left today, but I'd like to tell you something about this unfortunate helicopter. Indeed, this one is very happy differently for those patients who will now be dealt with much faster. It should be noted that this new way of working rescue workers and helicopter stations has significantly improved patients’ chances. The take-off time of the helicopter was reduced to only three minutes, as opposed to the previous system, which took at least 20 minutes to take off. If that doesn't make a difference, then I don't know what else to say. And if it is not worth paying more, especially if the previous contract has expired and is no longer renewable, there is even better equipment. In addition, accessibility is available to the unfortunate by means of a so-called faucet, which this helicopter has virtually unlimited. This one's got another one. Mr Miklavčič was mentioned that he said everything was fine. You know what, Miklavčič is not [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] . Now we can't talk like this, we're going out, and we're going to talk outside, but it's not like you're reaching for my word. But it is true that Mr Miklavčič has never flown this helicopter, and I have many times. You must believe that I know the situation very well and that it is difficult for Mr Anderlich to argue with me about the helicopter because I have used it many times. I wouldn't fight like that. Therefore, the helicopter is equipped, in addition to being good, with all the necessary helicopter equipment for medical care. The money needed for the military and police is also needed to save the mountains. And that's what's left of the military helicopter also because of the specific situation in the rescue in the mountains. And because we need a different team in the mountains, not doctors, or those who are accustomed to everyday work, but also mountain paramedics. And that's why this part stayed away from it. I would just like to say to Mr Zagorec that we did not deliberately put the operating tables in Maribor before the elections because they were practically all put before the elections. That's not such a problem, because I already told him, he already knows that, even if he's not here right now. But this order was made on the possibilities that were given to these tables then actually put themselves there. As for the functioning of the table, I must say that these tables that are now purchased are, in fact, as we all know, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And it was influenced by some heavy pressure on the left, on the right, on the right, on the right, and on the other. We have carried out the procurement process at all times, as prescribed by law, and have followed the opinion of the State Audit Commission. In the last decision, the State Audit Commission made it clear that we had made the right decision. And since the State Audit Commission is not invited in this or in any other way, its decisions must be respected. And the State Audit Commission has given us the right to choose by all the rules of the table, which I think are also appropriate. However, it must also be said that these operating tables are now as ready as they are at all hospitals for surgery. The other thing is, they don't run on some parts of the operation on these tables yet. I've said this a number of times, and this is mainly true for the Oncology Institute, and we've known all along that the tables alone will not cause patients to move and there will be a greater number of operations at the Oncology Institute itself. Of course, no one knows anything about the number of operations. All of these operations were performed under worse conditions at the Clinical Center. The surgery was done at the Clinical Center. It is true, however, that there have been serious problems for programme operators, such as doctors, nurses, staff and patients. But in any case, the number of operations was no less. Now it's just a few finishings on the equipment. Then there was a speech about how to send to the lab, Mr. Gantar. They're sending me to the lab on my medical or professional record. I'm sure no one, not a private, not a public servant, does hope, I mean a doctor, doesn't hope to get a patient's lab checked out if there's no medical indication of that. That's not who I know. But it's true that in a masquerade state public office, because it doesn't look at how much it costs, but what a lab throws out, we always call it a network, a lab network, and then you catch something out of it, and that's expensive. That's very expensive. It is important to consider carefully what tests are needed in a patient for diagnosis and therapy. And here there is a possibility for a private person to have more rhyming, more thinking than in some flat-rate tests in state public institutions, where it does not look at the price, where it doesn't matter what it costs, to the person who sends it. And that's wrong, that's not right. As far as duty is concerned, that's no problem. Officials, as I have already said, at the primary level this is a matter of the congregation and the healthcare home. I'm telling you again. It's a matter of the congregation and the health center. And there, as Mrs Pecanov said earlier, in Izola, as mayor, she was demanding some measure regarding the fact that someone did not want to be on duty. In fact, it led to something that was actually on duty afterwards. So, every mayor has this option, why don't you take advantage of it? Why don't you use it? That's what the contract says, everyone has to be on duty from the privates in the public office, just like the others on duty. But the question is, what conditions do they have? In Ljubljana they were given conditions under which they did not want to be on duty, they were worse than the conditions of those who were employed in the public sector and why they would then work under worse conditions. They've given them poorer conditions, proven poorer conditions for this service. And then they said they didn't want to be on duty. It's very simple, but it's not true, and it's not about no. Now it is possible to pay Koshir how much he received under the contract with the Ministry of Health in 2005, now I have received this data, two million three hundred, of which he paid 30% of the income and of which, by now, 25% has been charged, so essentially for the work he did at the Ministry, this is a very small amount. However, it is particularly small compared to what was paid to the Australians in the previous term, so that there is no comparison for work that is significantly better and, above all, more valuable, has greater results and greater benefits. As for the public-private partnership and what Mr Rob has commented, I can only say, of course, that in this public-private partnership I see only, not only, but most good things. Above all, I see that in the case of the implementation of this partnership, even in health care, a number of things will be easier to implement and, above all, that some things will actually be financed by the private sector and thus burden the state system. This means, in other words, that we will have more money for implementing the programmes, because, in my view, at least the country's investments will be significantly smaller - what is already happening in the field of primary level concessionaires. I think private people spend about a billion tolars on investment in basic health every year. That's saying, all the time until now, if we multiply it by 12, that's 12 billion tolars, which is a pretty good amount compared to what their number is or what their percentage is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I invite Member Franz Žnidaršič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In his defence against interpretation, the Minister speaks of acting in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. In it, this agreement is based on the following points: that health care is one of fundamental rights, that compulsory rights services should not be reduced in order to make the principles of full solidarity, non-discrimination, universal access to rights, that these values should be developed and ensured social justice and so on. That health and health care is, above all, a public good that is guaranteed to all, regardless of the health, social and economic situation and the ability of the individual. That the starting points should be based on the need to expand preventive programmes. To tighten the situation of accelerated growth in healthcare expenditure and the rapid spread of medical development and thus increase the demand for health services, and to reduce waiting periods and provide protection to the older population in particular. In order to address all weaknesses and further develop healthcare, European comparable reform processes are needed to ensure the broadest social consensus between the population, professional and civil associations. With regard to the provision of rights, it has been realised that we have adopted the Equalisation Schemes Act and in this way have at least temporarily prevented the non-critical and selective increase in the premiums for voluntary health insurance, which is good, although long-term voluntary insurance becomes mandatory and from this point of view unacceptable in the current form, equal premiums for all, irrespective of their material strength. However, another issue in this area of the provision of rights has not yet been achieved: it is a matter of regulating the non-payment of health services to the weakest citizens. While the proposal is ready, all those who are materially unable to pay this additional insurance, free of charge, but at the expense of the existing health insurance funds, according to this proposal, which we are aware of, even though additional funds should be provided, will have to be the ones who will have to pay the contributions, not the country that will give this gift. From here on out, things get complicated. In the Health Act, we will reorganise the organisation of the public health service and set up its network. For the adoption of new laws, we will ensure the widest, once again social consensus between the social partners, etc. We will redefine the conditions under which private work concessions can be issued in the future, ensure a condition for more efficient work and use of resources for the implementation of health care programmes, and the position and responsibility of the management for a successful business. In 2005, we will examine the preconditions for a legislative solution to long-term care last year. We're out of 2006 and we're out of here. We will strive to introduce a stimulus award in the field of healthcare and stop the practice of balancing in the award of medical personnel. The coalition will ensure the establishment and functioning of the Institute of Patient Rights. Apart from compensatory schemes, none of this has been done, except that we do not have the Ombudsman's rights. We have, as we speak in the starting points, solidarity and justice and universal accessibility, etc., and we have on the one hand a minister who works for the poor, who has been suspended, and on the other hand a minister who does not provide this, in particular not in the way agreed, namely that we will redefine the conditions under which private work concessions can be issued in the future. And here, you see, the minister's explanation of the interruption of the commission during the former minister's time falls. The former minister stopped granting or suspending concessions because, as concessionaries or those who went to private health care, they did not want to be on duty. This is no excuse for some to have this in a contract or not. We should all have, without exception, and this is not a matter of the congregation, but a law that has not redefined it, but does not state it anywhere in existing conditions. Of course they don't have the same personnel. I've even heard that even a hairdresser can replace a nurse, not perform the prevention that we talked about earlier, how this is the starting point, the work is different than before. This lab, of course, is being sent. He's some kind of doctor I'd know who wouldn't send. Sends it to the lab as a patient's self-payer, and here I have proof of the insured who wrote me the following today, it is unacceptable that at the same time the private doctor is the one who works for the concession, the health insurance company, and that at the same time he is also a private person who has an open office at the same time. When we're self-payers, of course, we're all witnesses that when he came to order the one with the medical insurance card for paid insurance, they told him six months later. Yeah, of course, six months from now, if I told the day after tomorrow, he'd sign up in six months, but he won't sign up, and he's asking me when I can get the money, and he says tomorrow. Since it says so, we self-payers only ordered a few days ago. This is a public-private partnership in which, of course, the Minister considers that because municipalities grant concessions at the basic level, he is not responsible. Mr Minister, you are also responsible for those concessions awarded locally because there is no law or control to ensure that harmful anomalies do not occur. That's what it says we're gonna do, and we didn't do it. But we didn't do it to keep you an arbitrator on who you're going to grant the concession to. As far as this goes, you would like to say that in basic health care almost 100% works, with 12 private concessionaires in Slovenia Bistrica, when they want a vacation, they went on vacation, they whistled at their patients, they whistled at the need to buy a defibrillator and use the one who bought a healthcare home, with one doctor running for a year and so long that he would pay his obligations to rent premises, etc. This is the functioning of this public-private partnership or privacy as such. I have to say that I know some great private doctors who work just as well as they did when they were in a health care home, for concessions, for a health insurance card, and probably, as far as I know, only here and there are things they charge, but it's probably outside the health insurance program. No one here wonders how the work will go when someone closes his office and writes, and he shows up in public health for as long as there is left. It's not like we're gonna make it accessible. That's a long way from here. To me, the concessionaire, the doctor, when I asked him, I knew him for 35 years, how much more you earn as a private person, than I deserve in a public office, says, the thing is simple, half less pay for myself, and for a sister and half less contributions I pay. That's one, he said. Second. Everything you do, sew, categorize, point, send to the surgeon, because it takes time, means the cost of the material, etc. And if that's not the case, I make self-payers out of insurance companies, because I worked in the health care home more than I was normal, but I only had a salary, and in private I make a standard, which is through my waiting list or my choice of self-payment. And the circle is closed. This, Minister, is your privacy, which is to be carried out expeditiously in the field of basic health care, which I know much better than you, because I have worked in it for almost 35 years intensively all the time for health insurance. I never thought I'd die if I didn't make it. I don't know how much. And stop us, please, asking us with information on how the profits are just on, I don't know which place, with motives for getting doctors to go to private work. In Mago or Mladina, it was black on white that Mr Bitenc would earn 18,000 for an hour, while his colleagues who remained in the public office in UKC would receive slightly less than 3,000 tolars per hour. And you said he was willing to continue working in UKC under the same conditions. These are not the same conditions. He's got a concession without people knowing exactly where he's gonna work, where they're gonna sign up for their turn. And even the last concessions have been received by some, one I know personally, a concession without an ambulance, without equipment, all will be resolved sometime in the near future and so on. If I count down the fact that I feel sorry for a surgeon who's only a concessionaire with an outpatient job, because his operating profession and routine will fail. But if I'm supposed to get this later, then I don't see the reasons why it wouldn't be written in terms that it would continue to know where he's going to work, what kind of team, whose money, who's going to pay for the depreciation if the contract with the public office is going to be. All of this is not cleared up and it is not possible to pass on the fact that there have been many errors in the decisions to grant these concessions, whether you like it or not. And in this regard, I must say that the dark future is written to our people if we understand the coalition contract as a make-up with which you lure a small party into the coalition, and then you read what is written in it. The Minister is in favour of defending the public interest, not defending those who want to go private. The public service is one of the forms of rescue for the provision of health activities under the starting points and under the cathels that we have agreed on. But this is not the only form, and it is not necessary to do it on the nose if all the conditions are not met. It is not in the public interest that private individuals are not subject to the same human resources and spatial norms. Not much has been done to improve the functioning of public institutions. I would give them a magnetic card to all the doctors at UKC to go to work, just like I did, that I was there at 7:00 and no one would get me out except for emergency intervention until 3:00. I am not saying that working hours are not respected, but they are being violated so often that similar forms of solving the problem of public institutions can take place sooner or later, and in order to ensure control. And interestingly, now that we have a handful of health care institutions, control is not possible and a thorough review of what happens in regular working hours, that there must also be a waiting period where there is legal coverage with doctors. However, when there are 2,3 000 individuals, it will probably be possible to control more accurately and indirectly what is going on, by also looking at the medical room side and doing a bear service to all those doctors who respect moral ethical principles and their obligations as concessionaries. Thus, we do not have enough control and we are without the complete legislation, which is the issue of the coalition treaty to which you refer. And in this sense, I would like to say this, before you said that the private institution has some different possibilities for rewarding. Of course it does, but also in public institutions it could be possible for you to do more than provide money for complementary work only to some that this is not a normal solution that would apply in health care. We also have top doctors working for more than half of the other doctors in primary health care, especially in the absence of maternity care and specializations, but there is no extra money for increased work. It's normal to do more. In the UKC, however, if someone works more, we will give extra money, against which I have nothing, but provided that they first look at what happens in that working time, in which long species arise, which then justifiably put an emergency before people by additional means that perish and the bag is in this sense bottomless, over and over again, without looking at whether or not it is necessary and if it is everywhere. I'm saying this because I've been working with the Department of Health for several years. When the overseers told them how they had found the written services, that the standard was fulfilled, that the species was long and that then it was possible to collect money from all those who could pay in private pockets in their private clinics just the same day or very soon thereafter. And that's the kind of thing that I'll never agree with, no matter what the client says or what my colleagues think. And in that sense, Mr. Secretary, you are responsible. I will support this interpolation myself, not to believe that we can replace you, but to the principle of knowing that everything is not all right, that it is not possible to accept your claim that you can reject all the obvious. Of course, you can reject them in the way you practice it today, which often does not have solid foundations and elephants on your view of things, and that vision is sometimes not clear, is hazy and does not match what is happening on the ground. Here I have a whole stack of letters from the insurance companies, you can take them if you want to see what people think about it, whether it seems to support this debate in this sense, to think more seriously about it, and that in the coming period, you will have almost two more years of your mandate, to listen more carefully and to those 47,000 signatures that you are ignoring right now, and also to someone who has comments on your work, because I'm afraid that if things go well, then nothing will change for the better, and then as an insured person, and if alone without a family, I'd like to walk somewhere else from this country, because things will get complicated. In doing so, I must say that I am fortunate enough to be able to pay for self-payment services, but I am only one of the few. The vast majority in our country can't afford it, and in the interest of those I speak, not because of the voter votes, our client has few, someone told me that by mistake because the old people see poorly and they gave us that 4%. But it's nothing. However, I think it is necessary to support solidarity, a common agreement on what is good for our future, in order to jointly adopt a national programme that is not, but should be the basis for the content of the necessary measures both in the legislative and professional fields, but, of course, Minister, you think that you can do all this without these documents, just because we have a force relationship so that you can survive any interpretation. It's lucky for you, and for those outside, it's a little less. On behalf of those here, I have spoken as a Member of all the people. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u129	Thank you, Comrade Znidarsich. In accordance with the agreement, I am adjourning the debate on interpretation. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10 a.m. This also interrupts the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good luck!
