ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I begin the continuation of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Roberto Battelli, only Bevk from 4 p.m. on, mag. Branko Grims, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Jožef Horvat, Franz Kangler, Breda Pečan, Miran Potrč, Maria Possonec and Joseph Školč. We're moving to 11. Period of the day - another defends the proposal for a law on electronic commerce in the market. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Secretary is calling it off. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Martin Mikolić, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u2	Well-known, distinguished President, Minister, honourable Members and distinguished Member of Parliament! At its 16th meeting, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for an e-commerce law on the market submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and reception. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS, NSI and DeSUS, which were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The members of the Committee also received several proposals for amendments to the Committee, as some comments from the Legal and Legislative Service were further examined, i.e. after the deadline for the submission of amendments. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. During the second hearing, the representative of the proposer gave the introduction a supplementary explanation of the proposal for a law, stressing that the law submitted to the Slovenian legal order fully introduces a directive on certain legal aspects of services and the information society, in particular electronic commerce in the internal market. The fact is that the current regulation, namely the implementation of the law on electronic commerce and signature and the law on consumer protection, does not ensure the proper transposition of this Directive. A central disadvantage in this respect is that the Directive applies to electronic transactions between non-consumer parties. The latter do not have adequate legal certainty under the current regime. The main purpose of the proposed law is to increase the legal certainty of electronic commerce in the provision of services and information society, and the proposal for a law is therefore strictly governed by contractual relations between all parties, regardless of their status or status, and irrespective of the seat of the consumer of services. In the debate on the individual articles of the proposal, the members of the committee did not discuss the proposed solutions. They discussed only the proposal for an amendment to the amendment of the Group to Article 5 which was prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The legislative and legal service was of the opinion that the amendment of the parliamentary groups was not fully appropriate as it relates to Community law. However, since this is the case for the transposition of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, it is the view of the legal and legislative service that the particulars should be linked to the Slovenian legal order. In the present case, this means a reference to sectoral legislation, namely the consumer protection law. The representative of the proposer did not agree with such a proposal for an amendment to the Committee as it was intended to narrow the purpose of the provision. It was considered that, in addition to the Article of those activities, all other laws of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the Law on Electronic Communications, should be taken into account. The amendment proposal would limit the content of the provision only to the law governing consumer protection. In the light of the concerns raised by the representative of the proposed lawmaker, the proposal for amendments to the committee was amended accordingly in agreement with the representative of the legislative and legal service, thus making use of the reference to the applicable rules, not only to the consumer protection law. It was also appropriate to correct the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to the amendment to Article 7 relating to similar content. It was agreed, however, that, pending the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the national assembly, this issue should be re-examined and, if possible, a more appropriate solution could be found. In view of the fact that no amendment has been tabled by Articles 5 and 7 of the amended law, it was clearly assessed that the solution adopted was adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want a nice hello to all of you! Let me mention for the introduction to the presentation of our position that Members and Members of the National Assembly do not have the same power of decision in all the proposals of the law. In the case of the e-commerce law on the market, it is already such that we do not make a clear decision, in citing it, according to free judgement, and cannot invent any bizarre amendments, such as in the law on public order and peace. There are laws, therefore, where we must follow the urgency and where the consequences of the procedures set forward are logical. This is mainly the case when we transpose directives into our legal order, and so is this e-commerce law on the market. It happened to us that after we transposed this e-commerce directive through three laws into our legal order through the e-commerce, e-signature and consumer protection law, we were warned by the European Commission that this was not entirely and quite correct and that this should be corrected. With this bill, which we now have before us, we are following a warning and we are trying to implement the European Directive in a transparent, clear way and in its entirety, which, unfortunately, has not been appropriate so far. In particular, it is here to point out, which has already been pointed out, that business-consumer relations are now being regulated, but not between businesses, and legal certainty is thus reduced. The ambitions of the law are modest, to fulfil their obligation to the European Directive, to European legislation, to transpose the directive into our legal order in its entirety and in a transparent manner and to properly regulate relations between business partners. This more appropriate arrangement also concerns the determination of the role of the Ministry, the Ministry of Field Affairs and inspection in this area. The effects of the law are in particular the full harmonisation of the directive, better regulation of the liability of service providers, promotion of electronic commerce and, as a result, possible economic growth, increased employment and any other ratings resulting therefrom. The proposer, the ministry or the government thinks that all that is required of us will achieve by this proposal that the proposal is comparable to those in all those countries that have already implemented this Directive, and therefore the DeSUS Group fully supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u6	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The aim and purpose of the e-commerce law on the market is to properly transpose Directive 2000/31, the European Parliament and the Council of 8 June 2000 into the Slovenian legal order. The regulation of legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce in the internal market, is the creation of a legal framework to ensure the free movement of information society services between Member States. The transposition of the Specific Law Directive is a solution that is also dominant in the comparative practice of other Member States of the European Union. The bill is a special provision, in particular in relation to the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature, which regulates electronic commerce in the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Electronic Business and Electronic Regulation deals with some fundamental issues relating to the legal validity of electronic form, electronic communications and data and data storage. In this respect, it also provides an appropriate legal basis for the conclusion of electronic contracts. The proposal of the law, both in matters not covered by it, directs the application of the law on electronic commerce and signature, but in the event of a conflict between the two as a special provision restricts the regulation of the law on electronic commerce and electronic signature. In particular, the responsibility of indirect service providers is regulated. The fundamental principles defined by the proposal for a law are the principle of the exclusion of prior authorisation for the provision of information society services, the principle of the application of the rule of law from the seat and the principle of the prohibition of a general control obligation. The first principle provides that a prior authorisation may not be required for the self-management of information society services and that licences may be required to be valid for an activity which is the content of an information society service. The principle of the application of the rule of law of the country of its head offices directs the application of national rules for service providers established in the country. The principle of the prohibition of a general control obligation shall be applied to providers of information society media services, i.e. those who in any event make available the information provided by the recipients of their services or make it possible for the recipients of their services to access third-party data. Exceptions are the provisions on the validity of electronic form and the admissibility of electronic contracts, which are duly governed by the already in force law on electronic commerce and electronic signature, which makes no special provision in special law necessary. The development of electronic commerce in the information society offers important employment opportunities, promotes economic growth and competitiveness, and it is therefore right to implement the directive as soon as possible through the proposed law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you. Dr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Economy! If I start a little more personally when I received this directive or this e-commerce law in my hands, I also connected it with the chief lawyer and the writer of this law, whom I welcome very much. In fact, this is about harmonising Directive 2000/31 of the European Communities. The fact is that the Law on Electronic Business and Signature and the Law on Consumer Protection - which has been repeatedly pointed out - have not been successful or fully transposed by these Directives and some areas, as already mentioned in the Pre-Priests, have remained out of harmonise, in particular the part which regulates and explains the relationship between the two business partners, of which at least one or both are not considered as consumers. These are so-called "business to business" business relationships. The law before us, in my opinion, is well and properly regulated, is properly regulated. At the same time, as you have seen and listed in the law, there are a number of articles that ensure that such an electronic form of business between business partners is safe, reliable and impossible not only the classical shortcomings of other business or fraud, but also those that are based on new media or electronic commerce and are specific in terms of electronic commerce. At the same time, as has already been said, the law on electronic commerce and signature governs other key areas of electronic commerce, such as the legal validity of electronic form, electronic messages, data, storage and so on. All of this is regulated in other laws. And all we can say is that the law is correct, necessary and we will also support it at the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We support the Law on e-commerce in the New Slovenia Group because it fully incorporates Directive 2000/31 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 into the Slovenian legal order. Our current regulation, which was covered by the e-commerce and e-signature law and the consumer protection law, did not fully cover the directive. The main and most important flaw in this was that the existing legislation did not regulate electronic transactions between non-consumer parties, this is the "business-business" relationship. The draft law also provides an appropriate legal basis for electronic contract making, which is also one of the requirements of the Directive. The basic principles followed by the Directive and the proposal for an e-commerce law on the market are as follows: the principle that the provision of information society services should not be subject to prior authorisation and that it is possible to require authorisation to carry out an activity which is the content of the service; the principle of the application of the rule of law of the home country is directed towards the application of national rules for service providers established in the country. The principle also provides that it is not possible to restrict the information society of non-resident providers due to national arrangements. The principle of prohibiting the general control obligation shall apply to providers of information society media services. The principle is extremely important as it clearly lays down the limits and conditions for potential civil and criminal liability of information society service providers. The main substantive effects of the law are greater legal certainty of electronic commerce in the provision of information society services that regulates the contractual relations of all participants, irrespective of the status. This means that the solutions we already know and use extend to all other contractual relations in the provision of information society services. The consistent regulation and full adoption of the Directive will undoubtedly improve the effectiveness of legislation in the field of public information. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Tuesday 30 May 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. It's another defense law on biocidal products. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At its 15th regular meeting, on 11.5.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the proposal for a law on biocidal products submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and reception by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service as input for the meeting in addition to the draft law. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the law in relation to compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has drawn up comments to a specific article. Mr Andrej Bručan, Minister of Health, on behalf of the proposer, gave the reasons for the proposal and outlined the main points contained in the content of the law. He stressed that the law meant implementing the Biocidal Products Directive and harmonising the European market for biocidal products and their active substances. At the same time, the law also establishes a high level of protection of human health, animals and the environment. The Act lays down 23 different biocidal products, regulates a system for the uniform review and evaluation of active biocidal substances at European Union level and national procedures for the assessment and approval of biocidal products with the possibility of banning or using less hazardous alternatives for placing on the market in the Republic of Slovenia by 14 May 2010, or until transparent active substances are included in the list. There will be a transitional period at European Union level for the next four years, with some 350 active substances being notified at European Union level that should be systematically reviewed and evaluated. The number of products placed on the market under national legislation on the basis of active substances varies from 250 products in Denmark to 13,500 products in the Federal Republic of Germany. Slovenia has a notification procedure for biocidal products under which about 160 active substances are notified 900 biocidal products. Amendments of the SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS coalition groups were tabled in the bill. The amendments tabled followed most of the comments made by the legislature in its opinion on an individual article of the bill, the debate on amendments and the article of the proposal was not a law. Thus, the members and members of the Committee supported the amendments tabled. At the same time, the Committee, as its own, also adopted the amendment to Article 5 and the amendment to Article 35. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on biocidal products. That proposal replaces and complements the control of biocidal products regulated by the Chemical Act so far. The proposed law systematically regulates the field of biocidal products. It is also worth stressing that the proposed law fully adopts the 1998 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing of biocidal products on the market. In this regard, the harmonisation of the European market, biocidal products and their active substances in the field of placing on the market is essential. Biocidal products are chemical substances and preparations from a chemical substance, including micro-organisms, fungi and viruses, which together have a negative effect on other harmful organisms. In this they are similar to plant protection products. A clear distinction between biocidal products and plant protection products can be made between the purpose of their use as plant protection products are used in agriculture, gardening and in private plant protection gardens for both large and small producers. Biocidal products are used for non-agricultural use. Some organisms become harmful if they appear too large and in an improper place and therefore endanger the health or well-being of humans or animals if it affects the quality of goods and if it interferes with the manufacturing process in industry or other activities. The law provides that any biocidal product must be authorised by the competent authority before its first placing on the market and use. The law regulates a system of uniform review and assessment of biocidal active substances at European Union level and national procedures for the assessment and approval of biocidal products with the possibility of prohibiting or using less dangerous alternatives for placing on the market in the Republic of Slovenia. At European Union level, a new system of placing chemicals on the market is being developed, a system that will be different from the new regime for placing biocidal products on the market and use, which will further delimit those areas of biocidal products and photopharmaceuticals. In addition to regular permits, the legislative proposal also provides for exceptional licences, including authorisations for biocidal product with a new active substance and research permits. After most, they are issued for a biocidal product containing a new, so-called active substance which is in the process of inclusion on one of the lists of substances. The exceptional authorisation therefore lays down the conditions and method of use of the biocidal product. The biocidal product itself so is strictly controlled by the competent authority. The legislative proposal also regulates the mutual recognition of licences issued in the Member States of the European Union for the classification, packaging and labelling of biocidal products, mandatory monitoring and reporting of biocidal products, the ability to keep records, the testing of biocidal products and the designation and protection of data confidentiality. For the inclusion of active substances in one of the lists of substances, the procedure shall be followed in a specific law. The application must be supported by the required documentation. When the active substance is included in one of the lists of substances, it is necessary to place a biocidal product on the market and use one of the two procedures provided for in the law, complete procedure or authorisation or reduced procedure or registration. A key concern for health protection is that each level of animal and environmental health protection is established. We meet with biocidal products on a daily basis and therefore the adoption of a system law is necessary. Every day we use disinfectants, non-agricultural pesticides, water disinfectants. On the basis of all of this, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! The European Union has successfully created a common market with free movement of goods and services, including for the benefit of consumers. The legal frameworks governing this area follow the protection of health and safety while at the same time incorporating measures to ensure individual information. Today, the achievements of science and technology are accompanied by every step, and the achievements of chemical science are of particular importance, since they are to the greatest extent part of our lives. We are faced with improvements in health care, pharmaceuticals, health food, the use of various means of protection and so on. However, we must be aware of the dangers that various chemicals can pose to our environment. We must therefore set a clear distinction between new achievements and the protection of human health and the environment so that all citizens of the European Union can benefit from improvements. Since a large proportion of biocidal products are chemicals that have biocidal properties and have harmful effects on living organisms, Directive 98/8/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing of biocidal products on the market already refers to the rules on chemicals. This logic is also followed by the proposal of the Biocidal Products Act, which is the subject of today's treatment, as it provides that biocidal products, as well as the consequences of their application, are subject to the law governing chemicals, in cases that are not regulated by this proposal. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the national procedure governing the classification, packaging and labelling of biocidal products, the obligation to monitor biocidal products, reporting and record keeping, testing laboratories and testing methods, the data protection regime, the protection of human health, animals and the environment, public services, costs and control of the implementation of this law, which is written in order to ensure the maximum protection of all inhabitants and residents. Slovenian legislation prohibits and limits dangerous chemicals already on the basis of a law on chemicals, rules on the prohibition and restriction of plant protection products, the EC Regulation on the export and import of certain dangerous chemicals directly used, rules on safety and health at work, which are regulated by a specific law on safety and health at work and by regulations under law, and rules on misleading advertising, which are regulated by the Consumer Protection Act. This law is thus without prejudice to the provisions already in force in the Republic of Slovenia, which tells us that we have already taken care of appropriate legal protection in the past. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we support the basic principle of the bill's proposal that the use of biocidal products should protect the health of people, animals, organisms and the environment in the broadest sense. Only identifying the characteristics of biocidal products should be carried out in such a way as to minimise testing on animals and living organisms. We will support the LDS in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Ministry! We will support the draft law in the New Slovenia Group for the purposes pursued by the law in relation to notification procedures, the inclusion of active substances in common lists on the basis of legally prescribed documentation, regarding mutual recognition of authorisations, regarding the appropriate use of biocidal products, as well as other novelties provided for by the law. As we say, we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The draft law on biocidal products lays down the areas of biocidal products in accordance with the Directive of the European Union. So far, procedures for placing biocidal products on the market and use have been resolved through the Chemical Act. Since a system for assessing biocidal products and placing them on the market is already in place at European Union level, the scope for placing biocidal products on the market and for placing them on the market should also be regulated separately from the chemicals at national level. The proposal also provides that for each biocidal product, authorisation of the competent authority must be obtained before the first placing on the market and use. The bill also regulates the high level of protection of human health, animals and the environment. It lays down 23 different biocidal products, regulates the system for the uniform review and evaluation of active biocidal substances at European Union level. Amendments have been tabled on the home working body, which regulate the law also from a legislative and legal point of view. We will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Member of Parliament and Members, Secretary of State. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the proposal for a law on biocidal products allows for a high level of protection of human health, animals and the environment, so we will also support it. The field of biocidal products includes chemicals and preparations derived from these substances, as well as viruses, fungi and micro-organisms used in the control of harmful organisms in 23 types of biocidal products, such as surface disinfection, public building distillation, drinking water disinfection, wood protection, product preservation, etc. Within the European Union, those products may be placed on the market on the basis of 350 notified biocidal substances which are under assessment at European Union level. In Slovenia 900 biocidal products are entered in the register on the basis of 160 notified biocidal substances. The bill also introduces five European Union rules into Slovenia's legal order, thus giving the legal basis for Slovenia's involvement in the uniform assessment of biocidal activities of substances and products at European Union level, which in fact means the division of work in the development of common lists of permitted substances on the European market and the mutual recognition of authorisations at European Union level. The adoption of this law will give the legal basis for the regulation of those products in full compliance with the European legal order. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal also adequately regulates public services in the field of assessment of biocidal products by direct payment of services to the provider, as such an arrangement burdens the state budget. Nor does the proposal bring its new additional burdens. The proposed law replaces and complements the control of the law itself and of these products entrusted to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals with the Minister of Health. We are confident that the competent chemical inspections will carry out this control consistently, as only such control exercise will have a positive impact on chemical safety in Slovenia. In view of the above, we will support the proposal for a law on biocidal products in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Tuesday 30 May 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Guarantee and Survival of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Mrs Cotman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Directive 80/987/EEC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the protection of workers in the event of the insolvency of their employer has been transposed into our legal order by the Law on the Guarantee Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in 1997. That Directive has been amended by Directive 2002/74 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The amendments introduced by the Directive have already been partially taken into account by amending the law in 2002, with the exception of the provision relating to so-called international situations. Therefore, the proposal for a new law stipulates that the Slovenian Guarantee Fund is responsible for the settlement of rights in international situations, while all rights in the amount recognised by workers under domestic law are recognised. For the functioning of guarantee institutions in international cases, it is also important only to cooperate among them and to exchange information, which now introduces a new proposal for a law. Directive 2002/74 allows Member States to refuse or reduce liability for a guarantee where the worker or his/her immediate relatives was the owner of a substantial share of the employer or activity and had a significant impact on the employer’s activities. This option is now regulated in the draft law. For the purposes of this law, the proposal also identifies the family members of the worker. In the event of amendments to the law, an editorial amendment of the law was also introduced, which is linked to the re-implementation of the Labour Relations Act, which no longer knows the decision to terminate the employment relationship as a document received by the worker upon termination of the employment relationship, but refers to the employment contract. By implementing the amendments, the Minister responsible for work shall prescribe a new form to enforce the rights of insolvency cases of the employer, which is now regulated in the transitional provisions. The part relating to the maintenance part of the 1999 amendments also regulates the rights of children in the case of non-payment of subsistence allowances, which is also guaranteed by the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The guarantee of those rights is not directly linked to the Directive itself. In accordance with the Tax Procedure Act and the Rules on the Delivery of Income Tax Data for 2005, the Fund is also obliged to report on replacement maintenance to the Ministry of Finance or Tax Administration and to send a notification to the parties. A tax number shall be used as an identification number for reporting and information. The current Act on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in the Department of Records and Protection of Personal Data and the records relating to maintenance refunds did not provide for the collection and management of the tax number, so it was necessary to supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you, government representatives. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The national working body, the Committee of the National Labour Council, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities considered this bill at its 15th regular meeting, on 4.5. Representatives of the proposer with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Marjetko Cotman, and the Director of the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was presented with a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in accordance with the constitutional and legal system and made specific comments to a number of articles. The amendment to Article 3 was tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group. There were no other amendments by investors. A short discussion of the members and members of the committee on the law in question took place only at the time of the ninth and tenth articles of the bill, where the question was raised as to whether the use of the tax number was compatible with the law on the protection of personal data. The representative of the applicant explained that the use of the tax number was of a limited nature, and this was a necessary provision in the law since, in practice, this was the reason for the problems so far. On the basis of a legislative and legal opinion, the Committee adopted a number of amendments. This has also made the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club to Article 3 irrelevant. All the amendments adopted are incorporated into the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the position of the Social Democrats on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, while stressing that I will not hold back further from individual substantive solutions, as I believe that the additional explanation of the Secretary of State and the report of the Committee's chairman has presented the main substantive points of this law. I will therefore first stress that we support the adoption of this law, as we did when adopting the Law on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, by stressing the importance of adopting such a law, which means protecting the rights of workers and workers when their employer is insolvent. We also expressed our support for the changes to the law in the previous term, when the guarantee of this fund was also introduced for maintenance. Therefore, it seems to us that the adoption of a European directive, which in the face of new economic conditions, when such international, mixed economic operators or owners are not established in Slovenia, will become more and more so that the protection of workers is transferred to these cases. However, I would like to point out, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, that perhaps the government would take into account our warning, after a reduced procedure, that laws that have so few members would still come to Parliament with sufficiently precise proposals so that there would be no need to adopt amendments on the Committee as much as this law. If I serve with the numbers, the law, which is accompanied by the last non-personal article, which speaks only of when the law enters into force, of all 14 articles, has been corrected in the vast majority of articles, only 6 are those that have not been amended since the 14th. Despite the satisfaction that the scope of the protection of workers is wider and consistent with the European Directive, however, I am referring, of course, to the law on the registration of the same-sex partnership, in particular in cases where the applicant does not take account of changes to the laws or the harmonisation of the laws adopted in this mandate. One more thing I'd like to point out is that it's a warning that doesn't matter. As the government has set up a data collection project, the question of why certain data should be given and whether this data is absolutely necessary and will not be used, in particular in this network of data used, for any other purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. The guarantee institution, which guarantees claims of workers in the event of insolvency of the employer, has been operating in our country since the end of 1997 in the framework of the current public guarantee and maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The regulation of the functioning of the institution and the conditions and content of rights are in line with the original provisions of the Council of Europe Directive of October 1980 dealing with this issue. In view of the Directive, it was amended and supplemented in September 2002 by Directive 74 applicable to the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. The amendment of the law is mainly part of the introduction of the 2002 requirements and directives into our legal order. The amended Directive thus introduces a new section concerning so-called international situations. It is specified that in cases where an undertaking operating in the territory of at least two Member States is insolvent to cover the employer’s outstanding claims, the guarantee institution in the Member State in whose territory workers perform or normally perform the work is responsible. The cooperation and exchange of data between the guarantee institutions of different European countries is also very important in avoiding abuse. For this reason, the law provides that the public guarantee and maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia shall exchange the necessary information and information on the procedures and decisions carried out with the competent related institutions in other Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area, in particular in order to carry out procedures for the recognition of rights, information and recovery. In accordance with the current regulation in law the owners of the company are not excluded from the guarantee of insolvency rights of the employer, so in Novi Slovenija we welcome the government's decision to establish, in the law, "the right under this law does not have a worker who is, or together with his family members, a majority owner of the company or the activities of the employer, and has a dominant influence on his business". We are convinced that the owners of the company must take a business risk for the business of the company and are not entitled to funds from the fund. In addition, the abuse of the Institute of Guarantee in cases of employer insolvency will be avoided. In Novi Slovenija we will support changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Although the proposal of this law, as we adopt it, is a little late in our legal order, which defines the protection of workers in the event of insolvency of the employer, it introduces a provision of the Council Directive which, in the case of insolvency of employers, in cross-border cases, assumes obligations to workers who have worked in the work of the employer in the Republic of Slovenia, in our guarantee maintenance fund. That is why, on the basis of the provisions of the proposal of this Act, close cooperation and exchange of information between the guarantee institutions in the European Union countries is also highlighted, which we find appropriate in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group; it is also fair that workers are excluded from the rights of workers in the event of insolvency of the employer who have a majority share in themselves or together with family members, and it is therefore clear that there is a dominant impact on the business or the employer. We will support the law in the parliamentary group. This law also removes certain shortcomings in the existing law which are necessary for corrections to certain provisions adopted in other laws, which refer also to the Act on Public Guarantee and Maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. The law, as we have already heard today, is a result of compliance with the European Directive, which requires Member States to introduce guarantee institutions in so-called international situations as well as their cooperation. Thus, after the adoption of this novel, the Republic of Slovenia, or the guarantee and maintenance fund of our country, will be included in some kind of network of European economic space. Under this law, by certain measures, the Government also foresees greater protection against any abuse of the employer's insolvency guarantee institution. In this respect, the law is not controversial and questionable, and it should be pointed out that, as a result, the costs of the guarantee fund will also be higher due to the expanded programme with the so-called international situation. The second area covered by the basic law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, which is also affected by this novel, is in very limited content, but is the maintenance fund operating under the guarantee fund. This amendment of the law, by adding a tax number to the maintenance allowance record, also allows for some kind of greater transparency within individual institutions or specifically by the Ministry of Finance. In this regard and consequently the role of the Ministry of Finance would like to highlight the pressing problem of the recovery of nutrients, which, at least as assessed by the Slovenian National Party, should include these novelties if we are to open a new law and amend it. In Slovenia, it is estimated that 5.7 billion Slovenian tolars of unrecovered nutrients will be available, and I will focus here on the question of our fellow Member, Zagorec. On 7 April this year, the Ministry of Labour or Minister at this Ministry drew attention to this issue and to previous replies from three ministries. The Ministry of Finance, or the Minister of Finance, seems to be proposing to be involved in the recovery of maintenance, which is unacceptable because they only recover revenue from the budget. The Ministry of Justice explained that the legislation in force provides appropriate mechanisms for the effective enforcement of maintenance. However, the Ministry of Labour has indicated that recovery is not within their purview. I would like to remind you that the issue of subsistence is that area which falls within the scope of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And despite the operation of the maintenance fund, which paid for the good 606 million Slovenian tolls in 2005, the fund also has problems with recovery, as it was able to recover only 328 million tolars for last year's 3.4 billion Slovenian tolar claims on debtors, while in six years it managed to recover only 328 million tolars. This is therefore a problem for which both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs are responsible. I would like to point out one more detail, which also justifies that this law should also contain more precise provisions on the recovery of livelihoods. At its 64th meeting on 9 March this year, the government adopted a decision, which commissioned the Ministry of Labour, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Tax Office, the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, to examine the issue of the recovery of maintenance and to prepare a proposal for appropriate solutions. Well, today we have a proposal for a law that does not define a solution. However, I am interested in the fact that we will support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party, how the Ministry of Labour specifically responds and what solutions are being proposed or will be submitted by the Ministry to this area, namely, the recovery of maintenance in the Republic of Slovenia, at last.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished representative of the government, colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the government's proposal for a law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, which is why we will also support it. The mission of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund shall, on the one hand, be concerned about the settlement of obligations under the rights of workers in the event of insolvency of an employer which allows workers to exercise their fundamental right to pay for work in cases of bankruptcy of an undertaking or of the enforcement procedure. On the other hand, it requires the right to compensation for child support. The Fund is expected to operate at a low level of 2 billion budgetary resources. The substance of the amendment is the transposition of the European Directive into our legal system, requiring meaningful changes and additions in the part where Member States will ensure the guarantee of the so-called guarantee fund in international cases or situations concerning the exercise or enjoyment of workers' rights in the event of insolvency of employers [[This is Directive 2002/74]] . In this respect, in our belief, the mutual and close cooperation of the competent guarantee institutions and their exchange of information on the recognition of rights for workers at such a level as they recognise under national domestic law are undoubtedly important. It is our view that the interaction and communication, cooperation and exchange of information, as well as the coordinated implementation of the procedures, are carried out bilaterally, i.e. the integration of our guarantee policy and the maintenance fund with the other European Union guarantee institutions and the European Economic Area. We have the responsibility and responsibility of a guarantee fund that will reorganise the guarantee of insolvency rights for the employer, where owners, companies have not been excluded so far, taking into account the owner's responsibility for the business and taking over the business risk. With regard to the Insolvency Guarantee Institute of the employer, however, in our Group, we believe that there is a need to take such measures as to prevent abuses or to reduce the guarantee obligations in the event of undue compliance with the obligations between employers and workers. The proposed amendments also include an editorial correction on the alignment of terms with the Labour Relations Act. As regards the maintenance part of the law or the fund, it is obliged to report and inform the Ministry of Finance, Durs and the parties, in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act and the rules on the supply of income assessment data for which the identification number is required as a tax number in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. And it was the collection and maintenance of records, tax numbers, on the basis of maintenance, that represented a point of controversy regarding the protection of personal data, but we do not think that without this it is possible to control the eligibility of rights under this law. In doing so, we believe that the tax number in the records on maintenance allowances is being processed or used exclusively and, of course, only for the purpose of fulfilling the statutory obligation of the public guarantee and maintenance fund and therefore a legal supplement is necessary. In our parliamentary group, we are certainly advocates for the realization of rights under this law, so we believe that it is necessary to make it possible and ensure the speedy and effective recovery of livelihoods and claims, to modernise the organisation of the work of the Fund and to improve our cooperation with the social work centres in our conduct. On the basis of all of this, and as we have already said in the introduction, we will support the members of the DeSUS in this law, supplemented by the one on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! The law before us, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, is one of those which brings the administrative order of the Republic of Slovenia to the directives of the European Union, this time the Council Directive on the protection of workers in the case of a paid incapacity employer. The guarantee institution, which guarantees claims of workers in the event of insolvency of the employer, has been operating in the Republic of Slovenia since 1997, in accordance with the current Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The current guarantee system for insolvency claims of the employer in Slovenia does not allow guarantees in such situations. Insolvency rights of the employer shall be conferred on the workers whose employment has ceased with the employer who is a legal or natural person established in the Republic of Slovenia who employs workers. On the basis of the directive, the proposal for a new law provides that a worker who, on the basis of the image of employment, has worked in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and that the employer has been established in one of the other Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area. It is important to note that there is no right under this law to a worker who, alone or together with his family members, has a majority ownership stake and therefore has a dominant impact on the employer’s business. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the marriage solution is one of many solutions that leads to different relations in the economy. This change corrects errors that have allowed many more opportunities to be exploited by those who have been able to navigate through marriage holes. It is right that things are organised here in the field of the European Union as a whole. The proposal further provides that the employer shall be insolvent if one of the Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area in which the employer is established establishes an insolvency procedure in accordance with the rules - a condition for obtaining the right to declare his claim. In the case of insolvency of an employer who also carries out activities in other European Union countries or in the European Economic Area, the public guarantee fund and the maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia shall exchange the necessary information and information on procedures with other competent guarantee institutions in other Member States. Payable incapacity of the employer, sad but true story in too many cases everywhere in Europe. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that these matters should have been resolved and settled long ago. This and other similar Directives of the European Union should come to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia earlier, as workers should be protected in the event of insolvency irrespective of the place of work. The proposal also introduces a new tax number, which is processed only for the obligation of the Fund to provide data for the income assessment and for the purposes of recovery. The opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that, in order to facilitate procedures, this amendment or amendment of the law is necessary and important. We point out, however, that today people are increasingly sensitive to personal data and that the area of personal data needs to be finally regulated. In our view, the tax number is that which only allows for insight into personal data. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law is in line with the Council of the European Union directive and that it brings positive changes that will allow greater transparency and speedy resolution of bureaucratic barriers. We hope that by adopting this law we will save some difficult life story that will bring at least a fraction of satisfaction and hope. Of course, we will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEPARTMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE NEW SOURCES PROTECTION LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Before us is the law on changes and additions to the law on the protection of new varieties of plants. The purpose of the law is to harmonise the national plant variety protection system with the European legal order. In the Member States of the European Community, there are two plant variety protection systems at national and Community level. Plant variety breeders can decide by which system new plant varieties will be protected. The Community plant variety protection system allows for the provision of one-procedure variety and is in force in all Member States of the European Community. The variety covered by the national system is valid only in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council Regulation prohibits that varieties covered in the Community should also be provided for additional insurance under the national system. The Council Regulation provides that the exercise of rights and judicial protection shall take place on the basis of national rules on the protection of plant varieties. The amendment of the law also establishes equal treatment of plant variety protection beneficiaries for the Community area. The law also complies with the provisions of the Offences Act and establishes a competent court for disputes in the field of plant protection. I suggest we pass the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the views of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u42	Nicely greeted. Madam Minister, with a co-worker, Member of Parliament and Members. Plant variety protection is a form of intellectual property protection, especially designed for plant varieties. The purpose of the law and the harmonisation of our national system for plant variety protection with the system in the European Union and the adaptation due to regulatory changes in Slovenia. The amendment of the law also establishes equal treatment of plant variety protection beneficiaries from the Community territory. The Act is supplemented by establishing a special status for varieties which have been protected in the Republic of Slovenia before 1 May 2004 and are also protected in the Community. The name of the competent authority, the Phytosanitary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted with the amendment, is in line with the current organisation of the state administration. At the same time, these amendments align the law with the provisions of the Act on Offences and establish a competent court for disputes in the field of plant protection. In Novi Slovenija we will support changes in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-worker. Members and members of the Slovenian People's Party Group estimate that it was necessary to prepare a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of new plant varieties. In view of the fact that the mother's working body has taken into account the comments of the legislative and legal services of this National Assembly, which have been incorporated in the complementary proposal itself, we assess in the parliamentary group that the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of New Varieties of Plants may also be a part of our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the Minister with a co-worker, a colleague and a colleague! Act on the protection of new varieties of plants, adopted on 3 December 1998 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 86/98, which deals with the protection of plant varieties or plant protection rights as part of intellectual property, should be amended to allow Slovenia to enter the European Union and to harmonise legislation in this field. It sets out the basic requirements and conditions to be met for the new plant variety to be protected, sets out the extent to which plant varieties are protected, which acts constitute a violation of breed rights, exemptions for seed users, the competence of national authorities and criminal provisions. Plant protection for the whole of the European Union has been taking place in the Community since 1995. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, all varieties protected in Slovenia enjoy the same rights as those protected in the Community. The Regulation prohibits the accumulation of varietal protection. This means that a new plant is entered only in the Community register or only in the national register. The name of the competent authority responsible for the implementation of the law shall also be changed and the register of applications and the register of protected plants shall be kept. Instead of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Registration of Varieties of Plant Varieties, new powers to the phytosanitary administration of the Republic of Slovenia are transferred. The law equates the rights of applicants from all countries of the Community. Infringements of the law are treated by the courts as a reduction of intellectual property rights. High penalties are at stake in order to protect intellectual property. The law is in line with the 1991 International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants, and in 1999 Slovenia became a member of the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants, established in Geneva. For all of this, we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Parliamentary Club, amendments and additions to the law on the protection of new plant varieties are considered necessary and appropriate. It is an important area of plant variety protection and protection of plant rights, which are undoubtedly one of the most important forms of intellectual property. In particular, the matter will be interesting and necessary if Slovenia renounces genetically modified organisms, which put more pressure on Europe and Slovenia in neighbouring countries every day, because then, in fact, greed will be the only official and allowed path to genetic progress. It is mainly necessary to harmonise and adapt to European legislation, since today the power of the new plant variety is to protect or under the Community plant variety protection system and equal rights are also possible under the Slovenian law on the protection of new plant varieties. However, this system prohibits accumulation of protection, since no plant can be protected simultaneously after both systems at once, which I think is important and essential. It is therefore essential to align the rights for varieties of plants protected under the system of protection of breeders' rights in the Community with those covered by Slovenian legislation. And most importantly, if we are a single and common country to treat this equally, all the beneficiaries for the protection of plant varieties from the territory of the Community as a whole. Now, perhaps irrelevant, but for general behaviour it is important to know that the name of the implementing body of this law is also changing, that there is no longer a phytosanitary administration, which has been said to be part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Economy and Food, and that a new body with the name, which is most important, remains within the Ministry which is most affected. In the end, the law, as necessary and right, is also aligned with the amendments to the provisions of the Offences Act and determines the local jurisdiction of the courts. Such a law, which is fully regulated and unified, will be gladly supported by members of the LDS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there has been no discussion on the articles on the proposed amendment, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Relationships. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Martin Mikolić, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u50	Nicely greeted. At its 16th meeting, on 5 May, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption after a reduced procedure. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, none of the qualified candidates had tabled amendments and the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and, from a legislative and technical point of view, made two comments of a nominal technical nature to Article 4 and to the title of the draft law. During the second hearing, the representative of the applicant gave the introduction a further explanation of the proposal for a law, stressing that the proposed amendments to the current law are less difficult in nature and mean, in particular, the harmonisation of its provisions with the Industrial Property Act and at the same time with European Union law, that is by Directive 2004/48 on the exercise of intellectual property rights. Given that the proposal for a law is less difficult in nature, the members of the committee did not discuss its proposed solutions, nor its objectives and principles, but on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the Committee adopted two amendments without discussion, namely Article 4 and the title of the law. Both amendments are nomotechnical in nature, as they contribute to the improvement of the legal text and their content was also agreed by a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting of the Committee. In accordance with the amendments adopted, a legislative proposal was prepared as an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u52	Once again, and thank you for your word, Mr President. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the protection of topography of semiconductor connections. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that adequate additions and amendments and/or coordination are needed in the field of topography protection of semiconductor connections, both with the European Directive, which requires better and more effective administrative update in the context of the registration of topography of semiconductor connections and uniform harmonisation in respect of the enforcement of intellectual property rights, the procedural provisions of national rules in the case of infringements in the single market, as well as in the law in industrial property. From the point of view of legal protection, it is therefore necessary to prevent the possibility of an infringement by law. This will ensure effective protection of rightholders, prevention of job losses, taxes and consumer compensation, as well as regulations on infringements or judicial proceedings. The proposed solutions under the Industrial Property Act will under our conduct ensure the same position and equal treatment of all intellectual property rights holders in civil proceedings - the use of the same institutions. The amendments proposed represent the transposition of the European Directive and its meaningful placement or harmonisation within the framework of the already adopted Industrial Property Act, which also coincides with the Copyright and Related Rights Act. With regard to the transposition of European directives into our legislation, however, in our parliamentary group we note that it would be reasonable to stick to the rules, deadlines, because dealing with delays by the European Union could have unacceptable consequences, that is to say, financial and appropriate sanctions. Members of the DeSUS will therefore support the amended proposal for a law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor links of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u54	Good afternoon. Greetings to the present president, representatives of the Ministry. The proposal for a law amending the law on the protection of topography of semiconductor connections falls within the broader area of intellectual property. The law now in force needs to be amended and supplemented in order to comply with the European acquis, namely Directive 2004/48. The deadline for coordination has already expired. Since infringements of intellectual property rights are common in the world and in the European Union, and there are significant differences between national rules within the European Union, the aim of the Directive is to simplify the enforcement of intellectual property rights. This is why the law on amendments to the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections should be amended. This law ensures that holders of intellectual property rights will have the same position in civil proceedings as other holders of intellectual property rights. It follows that all intellectual property rights shall be dealt with in a meaningful and equal manner. This law is not very difficult for us, since registration of the topography of semiconductor connections is very rare. No applications have been filed for the protection of rights so far, all the way from 1995 onwards. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I believe that the proposed law is good and in line with the European legal order in this area, so we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed changes to the law. Protection of topography of semiconductor connections is an important segment in the field of so-called intellectual property. It is interesting, however, what has been shown by practice both in the Member States of the European Union and in Slovenia, that the protection of topography of semiconductor connections obviously does not have some significant market value, since registration of topography of semiconductor connections is very rare. At the beginning of this year, we adopted amendments to and additions to the law on intellectual property protection in this National Assembly, thus aligning it with the provision of the European Directive 2004/48. We are now entering into the proposed amendment to the meaningful application of the provisions of the amended Industrial Property Act relating to that Directive. With such a solution, the same solutions apply to the exercise of rights under the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections as in the amended Industrial Property Act, which ensures that in civil proceedings all intellectual property rights holders will have the same position and that all intellectual property rights will be treated equally. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the proposed solutions, so we will also support the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION LAW ON REVENUE TO THE PUBLIC COMMUNICATION NETWORK - reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for this Act contains a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the current law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, which, above all, seeks to remedy certain irregularities that have appeared during the implementation of the current law and shows that the consistent implementation of the law does not correspond fully with the purpose of this law. In general, amendments to the law simplify the procedure for demonstrating eligibility, which is also one of the key objectives. By 12.1.2006, 32,805 applications for reimbursement of investments had been submitted to the public administration and 635 settlements had already been concluded with the beneficiaries between 1.10.2005 and 25.4.2006. Among the irregularities that show that the consistent implementation of the law does not fully correspond to the purpose of the law, for example, the high price to be paid in Murska Sobota for obtaining a telephone connection, which was also the official price of the connection. In this case, holders of telephone connections shall not be entitled to reimbursement of funds invested in the public telecommunications network. These cases are covered by the total number of refusals of 15,836. There is also a certain circle of natural persons who, without the conclusion of a contract with the legal ancestors of Telekom Slovenije, actually put in certain areas the infrastructure of the public telecommunications network, which was then owned and owned by Telekom Slovenije or its legal ancestors. There is no reasonable reason to distinguish these persons from the circle of natural persons under the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. It is therefore also necessary to amend the law in order to give effect to the constitutional right to equality provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The objectives of the law we propose are: to eliminate the uncertainties that have emerged in the implementation of the existing law; to extend the set of instruments on the basis of which the right to return of investments and contractual value is demonstrated; to include those entities in the range of potential beneficiaries who have paid a high price of connectivity and which was also an official price of accession; to include those entities in the range of potential beneficiaries who do not have evidence of concluded legal work, but can prove investment in the public telecommunications network; to regulate dispute resolution in cases where the contract has been concluded outside the period provided for in the law; and to set a deadline for the preparation of a proposal for a written settlement. The principle of the proposed law is to fully align the conditions for obtaining a telephone connection at the level of former PTT business units, to simplify the procedure for demonstrating the eligibility for reimbursement until the settlement is concluded and to set a deadline for the preparation of the settlement proposal. The circle of beneficiaries is extended by the organisations of natural persons and their legal successors, where they belong, for example, to housing and agricultural cooperatives which were not included in the original law, and this has proved to be a major failure in the implementation of the law. The text of Article 4 of the Act is complemented by the inclusion of those entities in the range of potential beneficiaries who paid the high price of the connection and were also the official price of the connection. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made comments on several articles of this bill, which were mostly editorial in nature. We have harmonised our comments and adopted them as such by the Committee on the Economy, so that I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you, Mrs Kosem Starina, Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Economy. The Committee on the Economy, as the parent of the labour force, has considered this proposal. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Martin Mikolić, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you again for your word and welcome. The Committee on the Economy, as a parent working body at its 16th session on 5 May, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Member Bojan Kontič and the SDS, NSI and DeSUS have tabled an amendment to the draft law. The amendments of the parliamentary groups were mainly prepared on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service. The members of the Committee also received several proposals for amendments to the Committee, as some comments from the Legal and Legislative Service were further examined, i.e. after the deadline for the submission of amendments. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. During the second hearing, the representative of the proposer gave the introduction a supplementary explanation of the draft law, stressing that by adopting it he wished to remedy certain irregularities or uncertainties that had occurred during the implementation of the applicable law. These irregularities indicate that the consistent implementation of the law does not fully correspond to the original purpose of the law. The proposed amendment thus simplifies the procedure for demonstrating eligibility, and this does not mean some substantial conceptual changes to the current law. In conclusion, he stressed that, in addition to the proposed provisions of the draft law, he would also support the amendments of the SDS, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups, as well as the proposals for amendments to the Committee, by summarizing the comments of the legislative and legal service. With regard to the amendments of Mr Bojan Kontič to Article 2, the representative of the Government stressed that the Government could support the amendment to the second paragraph of the proposed new Article, since it merely defined the provision of this Article more precisely. However, the amendment to the forecast sentence of the third paragraph of the proposed new Article 4 would not indicate support, as this would result in the non-consistency of the text in the third paragraph. Furthermore, this amendment is also inadequate from a substantive point of view. With regard to those amendments, the representative of the legislative and legal service pointed out that the solutions submitted should be considered in particular in view of the need for clarity of the legislative text. The first amendment would thus require only a few repairs to make it clearer, while the second would require more fundamental corrections because it is incomprehensible. In view of the above-mentioned views of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee has adopted its amendment to the first amendment by Mr Kontić and the amendment itself, and has not accepted the second amendment due to his incomprehensibility. However, it was pointed out that, due to the adoption of the amendment of Article 2 of the amended draft law, it would be possible to amend it five days before the meeting of the National Assembly, so that interested qualified candidates of the amendment would have the opportunity, in cooperation with the representatives of the Government of the amendment, to form it in such a way as to make it more clear and possibly acceptable. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has examined all the amendments tabled and, in addition to the amendments already mentioned, adopted by the SDS, NSI and DeSUS, with the exception of the amendment to Article 4, which has become irrelevant as a result of the adoption of the amendment of the Committee to this Article. In accordance with the amendments adopted, a legislative proposal was prepared as an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u62	Hello! Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The story of the return on investment in the public telecommunications network dates back to 2002; you know that, or know those who spoke about it at the time. At the time, we were united in our view that return should be effected. At the time, we felt that a referendum was needed. And the referendum is the basis for the implementation of this law. Besides, it's been four years since then, and actually it's nothing. Today we have a short-term marriage, but - well, let things go slowly and get settled. Well, finally, there is a time when we need to implement the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. There are many reasons for the application of this law. First and foremost is the referendum will of the people. With it, I must also point out that we Slovenians have protected ourselves against wild privatisation, for everything that has been invested until 2002, but we know that a lot of money, a lot of resources, a lot of nerves and a lot of effort have been invested. I think there's been about 35,000 -- you can fix me -- claims. The law was supposed to be changed due to some uncertainties, the differences between the price of the connection, and then different prices were connected between the ambiguities. It was not clear which entities could be included in the applications. There have also been those who do not have evidence of an concluded legal business but who can prove their investment in a public telecommunications network, and that is what this law is supposed to solve. This law aligns the conditions for obtaining a telephone connection, thus fulfilling what we are saying, simplifying the procedure for demonstrating eligibility, highlighting the referendum outcome and implementing and extending the basis for demonstrating the existence of the right to return investments. In any case, the law has or will have financial implications, so I think it would be very correct in the proposalr's report to state that some of the consequences will be, or if it already estimates that they will not, why not, that they have already been defined or recorded, which, of course, I have not, unfortunately, had time to check. Here we share a somewhat sceptical opinion in the Slovenian National Party on the assessment of the financial consequences that are essential part of the bill. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the law, but at the same time we express, on behalf of all those, there are 35,000 investors, their protest against the excusers waiting too long for the money paid back. As far as we can see, it is also good that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly were taken into account in the drafting of the bill, but of course the most important speech, as already mentioned today, was to the second paragraph of Article 4, which the Legislative and Legal Service has assessed as having to consider the solutions that have been submitted. It proposed that the text of the last three items, that is to say, should be replaced with the actual text of these items in order to be clear. In short, it is right that after five years of almost talking and referendum decisions, I stress that the law actually applies. This has created clear provisions and we will not oppose it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you. If the return of investments in telecommunications were to run as smoothly as today's meeting, Slovenia and Slovenia would be most pleased, then the matter would in fact be over and we should not at all have to confirm this change. Besides, our position is that. In fact, the implementation of the law has shown a number of shortcomings, and this has been felt especially by those who need to work in the congregations as well, and especially by administrative workers in the congregations who have had severe difficulties in this regard and who have also had to endure a lot of anger from the beneficiaries, and they themselves have been nothing to blame, except that they have had to do the job. New injustices have arisen, so we estimate, in relation to the implementation of this not sufficiently well-thought-out law, even some nonsense and a large number of rejections of roles and unnecessary administrations, in short, we call this entropy, in this area, the waste of energy, so to speak, was empty. However, something has only proved to be, and it has proved to be what needs to be done, that there will be a basic purpose, that is, to eliminate the injustices that have taken place, and to recover the funds that have so-called overpayments, but can be realized. Now we are correcting what has not been done well enough. Only now, as the motioner says, will we also allow the constitutional right of everyone to be in fact equal before the law, because we are equating the conditions that were when people acquired this possibility of telephone connections, significantly different and discriminatory across various parts of Slovenia. It shall assist the proposer in such a way as to extend the range of beneficiaries, in addition to equalising the conditions, and to facilitate the process of demonstrating the eligibility for reimbursement. When these injustices will be committed, it would probably be prophetic to say today, because a new cycle will now be turned over, first so that the Commission will have to prepare a new table, a proposal only new tables for calculation, then it will have to repeat, as we read, the call to investors to reinvest and when all this administration is regulated, then there will be a need to provide such a purely real resource from which the funds for reimbursement will be drawn. We in the DeSUS Group support the proposal of the law because it would make it more fair to repay it, because it would be easier to prove it, because the realization is only a little bit closer to it by the time it privatises Telekom, when we have the resources to do what we have set out to do, but we need to ask the beneficiaries for a great deal of patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Franc Sušnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear President, the House of Honor! We have been actively working in the Slovenian Democratic Party to resolve the problem of overinvestment in the public telecommunications network. Our efforts have been and are still focused on dealing with the unfairly high contributions that had to be paid and paid by many individuals to obtain a telephone connection by the mid-1990s. High prices for connecting and acquiring telephone connections had to be paid mainly by rural people and remote areas. The government law, which had the ambition to resolve the issue of investment, was adopted already in 2002, was designed to the extent that it did not provide investors with an adequate solution to the problem; it brought more government law than it did. It is not too much to point out once again that the Slovenian Democratic Party Members have already proposed amending the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. The Ministry of Information Society, with then Minister Paul Gantar, is in a position to adopt amendments and to supplement the law that would fully address the issue of return, strongly and decisively oppose. Therefore, the All-Slovenian Association, with our support, forced the call for a referendum that took place in January 2003, with a positive result that is known to all. Despite the referendum voted, the attitude of the Information Minister to the issue of investment has not changed and, therefore, it is imperative that certain irregularities and uncertainties that have arisen and proved inadequate during the implementation of the applicable law be addressed by adopting the amendments and additions that we are considering today. In view of the opposition and inoperability of the Minister and the staff of the Information Ministry, solutions and obvious irregularities have been adopted in the basic law, which have proved to be inappropriate in the implementation of the law in accordance with the initial and basic purpose of the law. You may have heard from the Ministry's introductory explanation what problems arise in the implementation of the law. The proposed amendment simplifies the procedure for demonstrating the eligibility for recovery, which does not essentially constitute substantive conceptual changes to the law. Given that we are firmly committed in the Slovenian Democratic Party to bringing the story of the return of investments to the public telecommunications network to a happy end, which ultimately proves the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of May to determine the strategic direction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the divestment of the state stake in Telekom Slovenije d.d. - by the way, the start of the privatisation of Telekom is in line with the law we are supplementing, the condition for the start of the return on investments - and with these strategic guidelines for the resale of the state share in Telekom, this privatisation is here, so the return has practically begun. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have committed ourselves, once again, to doing our utmost to restore funds to investors in the development of the Telekom Slovenije network, in accordance with the referendum will, and we have committed ourselves to doing everything possible to simplify procedures to demonstrate the eligibility to reimburse investors for the construction of the Telekom Slovenije network. Therefore, we will also support the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network. We are convinced that this is what needs to be done to ensure that the issue of return is resolved satisfactorily, especially in the interests of the beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you. Dr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State. I must say that I personally, as well as in the LDS House of Members, expect to receive, sooner or later, a law on changes and additions to the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, with the direction proposed in this law, namely, that there is an expanding circle of excuses to this return also to those institutions or organisations that were involved at the time of the investment, it is said, even at the time of socialism, a status that would now be called public-law status, such as when they had agricultural cooperatives or something similar. I think that this should now also be extended to kindergartens, schools and all similar institutions and that nothing would be wrong, and that, of course, it will also make it easier to demonstrate the justification for the return of investments. To an external observer, this situation appears to be quite paradoxical and sometimes incomprehensible. At a time when everyone is in a hurry to build optical access networks, we are engaged in returning our former investments to copper networks, rather than talking about our villages and villages, towns here at all, with optics, which in remote places creates opportunities for faster electronic access to services and services offered by today's and even more future state of development of the information society, such as the law that we adopted earlier. However, this was the will of the people at the referendum and I personally regret that I have always sailed against the current on this issue, regardless of the political price, although I have always felt that too much investment has to be recovered, in order to allow Telekom to be more accessible and accessible in these places by investing in infrastructure. The amendments introduced by law are intended to address certain uncertainties, irregularities in the implementation of the law and therefore extend the range of excuses. In fact, the law will be a matter of new ambiguity, and this is the way that, you don't want it to be possible for those who don't have as many credible documents to come to terms with. A notaryly certified record will be sufficient for those who do not have the documents to submit to the Ombudsman and a procedure will be initiated. Telekom will actually have a major business, a bureaucratic business. Far from thinking that we are all or that all Slovenes and Slovenes are inclined to cheat, not at all. But those who are, they'll get a chance if they want to take advantage of it. The notary letter itself will not determine the reality of the reality of the situation, but will only verify the identity of the one who has drafted such a request. Within such a defined framework of law, it would be only reasonable to support a solution that eliminates the imbalances in the drastic prices of connectivity, such as the case of the already mentioned Murskohoba region, in fact, we did not know of these aspects of a drastic difference at the time. I hope that this solution is new - I think that in Article 4, in Article 2, it is as understandable as it will be possible to implement it. Otherwise, as I read the programme for the disposal of Telekom Slovenije's state share, which the Minister had to hand over to me on the basis of the decision of the information officer, it is clear - I do not know how many of them this document has read from you, I have, of course - that privatisation is a far-reaching matter, my respected colleague Sušnik, and thus has been moving back to the future. That's why this law, if I say figuratively, offers pigeons on the roof instead of making sure that they can bring the sparrow back as soon as possible. However, because local elections are approaching, because there are no great things that the coalition would know and be able to praise before the elections, it is better than nothing. This is a pre-election law, and it costs the future. But since he has a law as a whole in the referendum, we will not oppose him in LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thanks again for saying that. As early as 2002, New Slovenia supported the adoption of a law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, which would allow the recovery of funds to the widest possible range of those who helped build Telekom d.d. with their direct investment. And her network. Therefore, as early as 2002, Nova Slovenija proposed two amendments to extend the set of documents that are the basis for the demonstration of investments and to cover the work and the material resources invested by the beneficiaries in obtaining the telephone connection between the eligible investment costs. These amendments were not taken into account at the time, and we are particularly pleased in New Slovenia that these proposals have been included in the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. The amended law provides a fairer distribution of part of the funds between those beneficiaries who invested their resources, work and material in the construction of Telekom or its network. The proposed amendments and additions also seek to address the problems that have emerged during the implementation of this Act. The practice showed that the law in force could not be implemented, since the law did not foresee all the situations that had occurred at the time of its implementation. Thus, the deadline for submitting applications is set again, as the proposal for a law lays down certain new conditions that extend the range of beneficiaries. The amended law has increased the set of documents by which beneficiaries can prove legal transactions or their contributions. According to the previous law, the contract was the only one established by law, and according to the new law, it could be any authentic instrument that proves the existence of a legal business, such as accounts, supplies and so on. However, in the absence of an applicant, a notary certified statement may be submitted to the Advocate-General, which is the basis for obtaining Telekom's data. In unclear cases, the inclusion of a valuer which will not burden the applicant is envisaged. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is appropriate, but above all the more just, to solve the problem of an uneven pricing policy in individual PTT units with regard to connectivity, as we know that there was no single price policy regarding connectivity in the years when the telephone network was being built. Thus we had the case that in 1990 the connection in Murska Sobota was 5,000 marks, in other PTT units in Slovenia somewhere from 700 to 1500 German marks. According to the original law, the beneficiaries were entitled to reimbursement of the price over the price connection at a price regardless of the fact that there was a price per price in some places, which is several times higher than the average in Slovenia. The official connection determined by the price lists did not return, although some LTT units had this exceptionally high definition. This initial method of determining the cartridge has proven to be unfair to those beneficiaries living in areas where the connection was already higher than the average. This means that part of the surcharge was already included in the connection and could not be returned under the original law. The new law therefore introduces a new method of calculation allowing three accounting models, whereby the defence has to choose the one that is the most favourable to the beneficiary or the one on which the beneficiary receives a larger part of the contribution. The law thus somehow corrects the inequality of the prices of telephone connections from the time the telephone network was built. Let me get this straight. The amendments to the law contain solutions that we have been working for or fighting for in our parliamentary group, so we will also support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We also believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network needs to be supported, as these amendments address certain irregularities or uncertainties that have occurred during the implementation of the applicable law. The fact is that the beneficiaries already await the return of their investments in the public telecommunications network, as all these procedures are already drawing and we are confident that the resolution of these procedures will also be accelerated by these proposals of the law. It is particularly important to welcome the fact that, in addition to the lack of clarity which has already been shown in the implementation of this Act, this proposal also provides or broadens the set of instruments on the basis of which the right to return investments and contractual value is demonstrated, then includes those entities within the range of potential beneficiaries who paid the high price of the accession and were also the official price of the accession. It is of particular importance that the proposal also includes those entities in a circle of potential beneficiaries who do not have evidence of a concluded legal transaction but can demonstrate investment in a public telecommunications network. It also seems important to us that the proposal for a law also sets a deadline for the preparation of proposals for written settlement, which means that by 30.9.2006 all applications submitted by 7.12.2004 shall be submitted for all applications submitted in a new way, in accordance with the proposal for this Act, and that 30.11.2006 is foreseen as the deadline.2006. Another advantage of this proposal may be that the circle of beneficiaries is extended by the organisations of natural persons and their legal successors, including, for example, agricultural cooperatives, which were not included in the implementation of the law, and this has also proved to be a major disadvantage. As has already been said, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on changes to the law on music schools. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Branka Grims to present the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. The report will be very brief. At its 13th regular meeting, on 9 May, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Music Schools, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He noted that the amendment of the law allows for more emphasis on the implementation of educational programmes, eliminates the evaluation of knowledge at the pre-school level and the apprenticeship at the music school, thereby allowing a way of action for this age period of children as well as the status of the programme itself to be significantly better than the regulation so far. On this basis, the Committee voted, without discussion, on all the articles of the legislative proposal together and adopted them together and therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed text of the law be adopted in the second reading or after a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u76	Good-bye, everybody! Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support amendments to the Music Schools Act. Already in the Coalition Treaty, we have committed ourselves to studying all administrative procedures related to the functioning of schools, both for school management and for teachers, simplifying them and thus allowing schools to deal with the core mission, education and teaching. What do changes to the music school law bring? The change eliminates knowledge assessment at the pre-school level and in the music school. The amendment thus makes it possible to achieve more prominently the educational objectives of the programmes, which are for the age of children, these are five-year-old pre-school children and 6-8-year-old students, as well as the status of an optional education programme, its duration and the scope of weekly work, for which this is very important. With the abolition of the evaluation of the knowledge of preschool children and in the apprenticeship, a certificate of completion will be issued to pupils at the end of the school year, and teachers will monitor, evaluate and record the development of children in the required school documentation, and parents will be informed of their observations at school hours, parental meetings and school performances. In view of that amendment, it is also necessary to amend the first paragraph of Article 36 of the Act on Music Schools accordingly, by deleting the existing provision on the advancement of students in the dance traineeship to the next class. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support amendments to the Music Schools Act and we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you. Ms Marjetka uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u78	The proposed Act amending the Law on Music Schools abolishes evaluation at the pre-school level and at the pre-school level. So far, at the end of their school year, students in the music dance course were evaluated and certified with a descriptive evaluation. In the opinion of the professional public that the difficult assessment of pre-school children in music and dance schools and that there is usually a relatively much greater understanding and perception of music and dance at their age, than they are able to write and put on paper, the evaluation of pre-school students and trainees is therefore discontinued. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Mikhael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying this once again, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendment to the Music Schools Act because we believe that this amendment allows a more focused realization of the educational goals, programmes for music and dance education of children. It seems appropriate for us to abolish the assessment of pupils' knowledge at the pre-school level and in the traineeship by amending Article 32(3). This course is only held once a week, but it is only for programmes involving five-year-old preschool children and six- to-eight-year-old students, which makes it inappropriate to assess at this stage. The need and advantage of such a way of music and dance education in the preschool age and the trainee also confirms the opinion of the International Association for Music Education. Most music - education researchers have found that small children know and understand much more music than they can show with their ability to express. The most appropriate methods following the recommendations for the assessment of music knowledge, skills and mood expressions are not linked to the school type of evaluation scales. Other forms are recommended to allow children to be made into a music profile on the basis of a musical sheet that may contain examples of observations, descriptive evaluation, audio and video and so on. We agree that at the end of the school year, it is enough for pupils to issue a certificate of completion and that teachers will continue to monitor, evaluate and record documentation in the required school. However, it seems important to us that teachers with observations and observations about the child’s progress will regularly inform their parents at talking hours, parental meetings, and school performances. As already stated in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendments to the Music School Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BASIC SCHOOL LAW - A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Dr. Milan Beast, Minister for Education and Sports, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u82	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for the opportunity to present the new law on primary school. You are obviously very quick to take parliamentary decisions today, so I missed the previous amendment of the Music Schools Act, where it was more about a minor change, so there were probably no major objections or conflicting opinions. The Law on Primary School, or the Last New Year’s New Year’s Eve, touches more closely on the work itself, the organization of elementary school education. We have already seen on the Parliamentary Home Committee that matter is extremely interesting also for the parliamentary groups, including the professional public, not only for political purposes, and we have faced quite conflicting views and opinions there. Nevertheless, we believe that the chosen path that we want to introduce with this amendment of the law is fully justified. In part, we also relied on foreign experience, and we were partly led to this decision, to this proposal for a law of opinion and position, as well as the practice itself from the Slovenian primary school. The fact is that years ago we received only one legal form of differentiation, namely external differentiation, a level learning that had a profound impact on the organisation of education, some schools have suffered a severe impact and many have had significant organisational, as well as human resources and spatial difficulties in implementing this norm or the new system. Today we open doors to other forms of differentiation. At the Ministry, we have examined this issue thoroughly, and we believe that, by allowing the institution to choose, we are also allowing the school leadership to choose the optimal option, according to their own resources. Only such an approach, in our opinion, allows us to make the best use of all the potentials of Slovenian primary schools, and only in my opinion this will be the right basis or a systemic basis that will encourage a higher quality. There is a general rule that good schools in the world are only those schools, in those national systems, which enable optimal levels of autonomy as part of OECD studies. These are mostly Anglo-Saxon countries, but other countries, including from the continental part of Europe, are approaching this goal or mechanism. When we allow different forms of differentiation, we want to increase the quality, quality of teaching and make it easier for institutions to choose the best way to achieve common goals, and this is that the student is equipped with the maximum knowledge, competences, strengths and values acquired during the training system. This is mainly Article 2, which refers to Article 40 of the Basic School Act, where we talk about all additional, alternative forms of differentiation, organizational forms, for teaching groups, for two teachers, and we also maintain a level education, as well as allowing the choice of a combination of these. Therefore, we do not abolish the teaching of the State; I will say this in advance, because in the debate, I am afraid, I have heard this observation many times - we do not abolish the teaching of the State. In some cases, in particular in some types of primary school, it has proved to be good, effective. It is difficult to say what a level of satisfaction is, because we do not have accurate data, it is difficult to say what is the effectiveness of level learning, because it is not possible to have accurate data, it will not be the opinional databases, whose range is, of course, limited. However, we believe that these forms of the front have no purpose in eliminating them. Just as we introduced it in the first place, a level study, which was a mistake in the past, would now be a similar mistake if it were eliminated. We have followed the Swedish experience, which has also allowed pluralism of orientation forms and has given this institution the opportunity to decide for themselves which path they will take in differentiation. Article 4, which is also slightly more substantive, provides for a way or defines the path by which the Minister shall determine the third subject in the case of external national knowledge verification. It provides for the establishment of this subject in the 8th and 9th classes of compulsory items in September. We have decided that it is not only one subject at the national level at all, because later evaluation, analysis, for example, or monitoring of pupils' knowledge has been difficult, especially longitudinal, because they should be tied to a decade or a number of years to wait for verification from an object to recur and then, of course, the school system would get very late data. We've decided on a model, an approach. We will draw up four models that will fit the entire population of the Slovenian school system across all their dimensions, which means that the results or results obtained on these samples can be generalized to the entire population, thereby reducing this verification period by four times, while also making it easier to monitor the quality or standards of knowledge that students have throughout the country at national level. This is also a key point in addition to autonomy, which is a system-wide mechanism that can guarantee quality, is another principle that is important for ensuring the quality of schools, including certain forms of external examination of knowledge and competence. And this institute we're talking about right now is definitely this one. However, some observations were also made at the time of the public debate that students had little choice, some students would just choose a third object, but we leave this freedom of choice to other levels, but they cannot choose an object for example in national knowledge checks, which is perfectly logical in itself. I believe that we are now in the process of amending the law last year and that this addition has somehow rounded up this change in national knowledge verification. I am sure that, with such a standard, we will be able to get all that we wanted from the national test of knowledge, so that we will play a vital function, uninterpreted, as originally thought in the original law, which allowed us to introduce some sort of graduation, a strong graduation at the end of primary school. At the same time, we are also providing this amendment with an acceptable level of this external regulation or a test of knowledge that will produce enough valid results. So much for the presentation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Branka Grims to present the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thanks again for the opportunity to speak. This law was also discussed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport at its 13th regular meeting on 9 May 2006. He took note of various views, including the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of State, the Commission for Nationality Communities and the letter from the Trade Union and the Act of the Council of Parents. In the debate, he then supported the fundamental principles by a majority of votes. It has adopted two amendments, namely Article 1 with the consent of the Nationality Commission, which provides that in national mixed areas, instruction in Slovenian, Italian and Hungarian or foreign languages can be taught simultaneously by two teachers of the subject. He also accepted his own amendment, namely the amendment governing the validity of the Regulation, so that no legal void would occur. Points contrary to the amendment of the law shall be repealed by the adoption or application of this amendment, but Articles 1, 3 and 5 of the Regulation shall apply until the conclusion of the school year 2005/2006. In the light of the differing views, the representative of the parents who joined the school on a human basis and confirmed that they supported the proposed amendments, followed by a broad controversial debate, after which the committee decided by majority of votes to approve the proposed amendments together with the amendments put forward and to propose to the National Assembly that the amended text be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u86	One more nice hello to everyone. Thank you for your word. The changes proposed by the government in the primary school law are supported by the SDS Group in the Member States, and we have supported them in accordance with this in the home labour body. In the White Paper on Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia in 1995, we wrote that the country must establish mechanisms for the enforcement of pluralism and choice at all levels, a more varied selection of content and activities, greater flexibility in spatial and temporal organization. We even have chapters on the autonomy of schools, which have been increasingly autonomous in recent times, since we have prescribed everything for schools and they have had to carry out the training as policy has decided. Now we treat the changes differently, return autonomy to schools, and thereby regain the responsibility to do what they do well. We need to trust the principals and teachers to make decisions regarding the young, the children they have in class in front of them. They know them, they know how they function in a group, how they function or function divided by levels, separated by different groups. In one class in a group of 25 children, one system can be effective and the other can be effective. According to the proposal, the teacher distinguishes work with students from the first to the ninth classes in teaching and in other forms of organised work according to their abilities. We're talking about internal differentiation. In the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th classes in the Slovenian language and the Italian or Hungarian language in the national mixed areas and in the mathematics and foreign language, the school may carry out a flexible differentiation. In the 8th and 9th classes, the school can organise with the distribution of pupils in the teaching groups mentioned above, while teaching two teachers as a level study or as a combination of those forms of differentiation. By amending the law, pupils will be able to change the level of difficulty not only at the beginning of the evaluation periods but at any time during the school year. The possibility for the school to decide on such differentiation when teaching two teachers in the 8th and 9th classes at the same time is the reason for the basic school law to be supplemented in a work which provides for the conduct of educational work in individual periods. The proposal to amend the law also specifies more precisely the determination of the third subject matter, which is examined by national knowledge testing at the end of the third educational period. The Minister shall determine the third subject in September of compulsory classes 8 and 9 after obtaining the opinion of the Slovenian General Education Council for a maximum of 4 subjects from which a national examination of knowledge will be carried out during the current school year. In March, the Minister shall determine from which third subject knowledge will be verified by national knowledge checks at each primary school. By establishing a set of four subjects, information on the knowledge of pupils from all compulsory subjects at national level will be obtained more quickly, thus ensuring that the school system can be evalvated and that the quality of the educational process can be identified and ensured and planned for the introduction of the necessary changes. A comparison of achievements in international research may also be possible. The proposal for a basic school law shall be defined by the competent expert body which shall give an opinion on the set of subjects for the third subject. Pursuant to Article 25 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the Section for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for deciding on professional matters or providing professional assistance in decision-making. Thus, in addition to confirming, adopting certain programmes, subjects, examination catalogues, it also gives an opinion and invites the Minister to take certain decisions and perform other tasks in accordance with the law. In view of the purpose of determining the third subject, this is to obtain additional information on the knowledge of pupils in a particular case, it is the opinion of the expert council on the determination of this subject of professional nature. Members of this Council are experts from various substantive fields of education and education. In the SDS Group, we support amendments to the primary school law and we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you. Dr. Slavko Gaber will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u88	Your Honor, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Today this Parliament is discussing a new, essential intervention in the organisation of the primary school in Slovenia. It continues the process of decommissioning basic education in this country. When we have already eliminated the external verification in its original function, without proper consideration and with a lot of words of graduality and ingenuity, and the harmful consequences of this intervention are already manifest today, the Minister shall decide on a new radical intervention. Interestingly, this time he is hiding under a procedure that is too short for him to be in such a hurry. Of course, it is driven by the desire to evaluate the teaching of the nations in this country. And it's true when he says he doesn't. It's true, it doesn't devalue it, it devalues it, it tries to devalue it. We have heard many times on the committee how we would actually want to eliminate it, but because there is not enough courage in this coalition to enforce our pre-election promises directly, directly, and directly, it enforces them by trying to discredit the essential elements of the system and this, I admit, is doing quite well. In doing so, the Minister does not mind that, following a reduced procedure, the parents of primary schools are the parents of primary schools, but I suppose later, he will talk a lot about how their opinion considers that parents are also the assets of the primary schools of Primorska against. He is not disturbed by the fact that the professional public, the pedagogical department, is virtually unanimous, is not disturbed by the fact that this measure is inconceivable, the associations of directors, he is not disturbed by the union, in short he is in favour and the coalition is in favour, this is obviously enough for the dismantling of the school system. Nor does he mind the fact that the studies available, and only those with which we can operate, are likely to have some arguments for changing things, not only do you introduce them, show that 70% of teachers believe that those students and students who need additional help are still connected with basic standards in primary school, that this teaching is appropriate so that they can do more for them. These same teachers, even about 70% of them, believe that more successful students who have managed to learn a lot and believe that it would give them the opportunity to learn even more. Slovenia needs both, so the connections of those who are trying to fight a good start-up basis for life must be provided, and we must also provide assistance to those who represent the peak in this nation of the most pervasive. You would expect that those who declare themselves neoliberal or something like that would understand that. If they were really concerned about the welfare of children and the welfare of this country, before they devalue the system, which is very difficult to implement, it is very demanding, it requires further efforts by teachers, it requires further efforts by school management and it also requires adequate funding, of course, it would not be possible to put this system out of hand. This system certainly does not guarantee success on its own, but international research has shown that a single school is not successful in ensuring the progress we need in the last part of the primary school in order for everyone to achieve the optimal possible recovery in this part. Under the cover of autonomy, the primary school in Slovenia is being dismantled and it is a typical case of people fleeing who should take responsibility for the system in this country, before their own responsibility. The only thing they want to know is the implementation of their political pre-election story. That's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! I present the position of the Social Democrats' Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act and, at the outset, I stress that the Social Democrats' Group will not support this proposal. There are more reasons, and let me just list them first, and then I'll explain them. The first reason is to shorten the process for changes that are so profound that we should change, if we are already changing, the law by regular procedure. Secondly, the real reasons for the changes made, not those declared. Thirdly, taking into account the profession in the proposed amendments and additions, it would be better to say that there is a lack of respect for the profession. Fourthly, the lack of consensus on the proposed changes. Fifthly, disregarding all partners affected by legal changes. And six, unequal opportunities for participants in education, it is said, for students and students. It is stated that there are fewer difficult changes and additions, and intervention in such a very important component as level learning is certainly not an insignificant component. The second intervention is an intervention in external verification, which is in fact a correction of some premature solution, and there is also no minor change. Therefore, this reason, cited by the applicants, does not stand the test. The real reasons are mainly organisational reasons and efficiency or the price of the school system. If we link these legal changes to some districts and other statements by the Minister of Education or other representatives who sometimes use a more relaxed language for the school as an expression that the undertaking is an undertaking, then these measures should be seen in order to ensure that the organisational situation of the school staff will be chosen by the school. And that is when parents could choose a different school for a certain form of nonmilitary instruction and train their children. Respect or disrespect for the profession. When I use the word profession, I use it as a common, innumerable self-existence, which takes into account a wide variety of professional perspectives on things. Unfortunately, it is impossible to say that professional decisions have been taken into account when it comes to such a difficult issue as level learning. No wonder, in the coalition contract, in the chapter on primary school, coalition partners wrote that they would eliminate external differentiation, in armor, homogeneous grouping, and instead develop internal flexibility differentiation. If this is true, they are not compatible with each other, because in the proposed amendment of the law, flexibility is also denied because it can and is a differentiation which they consider mandatory from 1 to 9 years of age only consider internal differentiation. So I am not talking about differentiation in the 8th and 9th years, where there is so much professional in the current proposed article that it would be worth a little more to deal with and discuss this more. It is impossible to see that in the same proposal, which has a total of nine articles, of which only four are substantive, five are taken into account in the transitional provisions, two different principles. In the first part of the talk is about how great autonomy must be, how to follow the wishes of parents and students, in a proposal that speaks about who will propose a test subject, the role of the minister is crucial. I said not to respect all partners, of course, the world of parents of Ljubljana primary schools as a partner was not taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u91	Mrs. Potrata [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u92	It's the other one. And last but not least, disregarding equal opportunities for all participants in education. But it's all so bob against the wall!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u96	Nice to meet you again. A respected minister with a co-worker and everyone else! Amendments to the law relate to the organisation of instruction in the 8th and 9th classes and to the national examination of knowledge in the 9th class, or to the identification of a third compulsory subject for the verification of knowledge. In the 8th and 9th classes of the law, a level study was conducted, which grouped children according to knowledge and achievements in their mother tongue, mathematics and foreign language. In all these subjects and at all hours, children were divided into three levels: bad, good and best, you might say. Each hour, these subjects were distributed according to their abilities. The level shall be determined before the beginning of the year and the flight changeover has practically not been possible. The amendment of the law still gives schools the opportunity to maintain their current level education, so it is not overturned, it is called the external differentiation of children. At the same time, the amendment of the law offers schools other options, such as the classification of children into smaller groups, heterogeneous groups, without external differentiation, as well as the third possibility of two teachers coming to the classroom at the same time, complementing or dealing with the majority of substances, while the other offers gifted students or students who are more difficult to follow. The school can also choose a combination of different forms of teaching. If the school retains a level education, the transitions from one level to another are also possible over the year. In Novi Slovenija, we are not thrilled with the level of instruction mainly because of the separation of children in primary school according to the current one-year achievements and knowledge, at a time when children are in the most sensitive developmental age, where many assessments reflect the current mood, and many also reflect the social, cultural environment, not their abilities and abilities. They may not be interested in substances at the moment and may be burdened with other things, but they are better able to accept and react differently next time they are given the substance. The levels have a customized application of the substance and the so-called lower level does not hear all the substances, which means that they are also not available for the best assessments. Children are deprived of a substance and are often less motivated to progress and are already considered less capable in primary school. In the field of instruction, children are separated and also marked, one more than one, the other more than poor, but only average. These are emotional consequences that do not contribute to confidence and motivation, nor do we accept the fact that we are a society of different people and learn from one another and need each other. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes mainly because they also bring other possible forms, not based on external differentiation, but on the internal one. Children are divided into smaller groups and working with them is easier and can also be more effective. From this point of view, we will also support the amendment of the law, since a few 100 teachers may find themselves on the road in the event of an end to the teaching of the country. We support this law, because the number of teachers remains the same, the number of hours remains unchanged, the curricula remain unchanged. Schools are now left with decision-making and responsibility. The schools will choose a form of teaching on the proposal of the director and will have to obtain the opinion of the Board of Parents and Teachers. If parents have not so far had an influence as well as teachers, it is now the responsibility of both of them to cooperate so that teachers are professionally based on any form to be trusted by their parents. Schools themselves are most familiar with the situation at school, from spaces to professional staff, students and parents’ wishes. In New Slovenia, we are also not making illusions that this year, I do not know what will change, that schools will massively replace external differentiation with internalism, and this may change over the years, and some Scandinavian countries have also abandoned external differentiation because it has proved to be bad for the development of children, but children from these countries, according to the results of KINS, are beyond the knowledge of Slovenian children. Schools will already choose any form of teaching, and the report remains. The teacher helps the student achieve and overcome the knowledge standards at individual levels of difficulty, and we add them to New Slovenia, and the teacher should also raise them and create a good personality. In New Slovenia we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, coworkers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, the law takes into account the soft transition in the form of differentiation. The proposed amendments to the law provide greater autonomy for primary schools, giving them greater opportunities to decide independently on the implementation of different forms of differentiation. In this respect, the proposal amends Article 40 of the existing Basic School Act. Thus, from the first to ninth classes, the teacher will differentiate his work with his students according to their abilities. In the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh classes, schools will be able to organize schools in the Slovenian language, mathematics and foreign language as a level lesson. In doing so, I would like to point out that the proposed changes do not end the teaching of the military, as many do, but give the school the opportunity to decide for itself whether they will continue their training in the field. In any case, the proposal of the law brings and extends the form of differentiation, since the school will be able to organise, in the eighth and ninth classes, students in mathematics, mother and foreign language in teaching groups, while teaching two teachers, as a level lesson or as a combination of those forms of differentiation. In amending the law, we also welcome the amendment in the Slovenian People's Party, which more precisely defines the determination of the third subject, which is examined through national knowledge testing at the end of the third educational period. Thus, on the basis of the opinion of the Section for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister will set out 4 subjects in autumn from which the national knowledge check will be carried out during the current school year. When adopting a proposal for amendments to the Primary School Act, it is certainly not negligible that these amendments are also supported by a school society at the level of human beings. Let me stress once again that in the Slovenian People's Party we particularly welcome the fact that these changes provide higher autonomy for primary schools. This, in turn, requires a great deal of responsibility from both administrators and teachers. I am convinced that all of this also brings better quality education processes in primary schools. We must be aware that by the rules dictated by primary schools, the country has severely restricted teachers in their autonomy and innovation. With these changes, the principals and teachers will no longer be able to comment solely on the rules, but they will also be responsible for the success of the educational and educational work at their schools. However, changes in the law in this direction are also supported by a number of principals, as it also makes it easier for them to prepare schedules and thereby provide training. Let me say again that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministers and, of course, representatives of the Ministry! The changes in primary education have actually started with the new government under the Education and Education Financing Act and with the then changes in knowledge verification after various three-year periods. We have already pointed out in the Slovenian national party the inadequacies and possible weaknesses of the regime proposed by the Ministry of Education. Today we are actually changing the basic law in the field of primary education. The government refers to greater autonomy of primary schools. Let me remind you of the basic problem that arises with the planned substantive changes, both with regard to the greater autonomy of each primary school and the Minister's intervention in deciding on the third selection case. Primary education in our country is compulsory. What is compulsory in one country is by definition also state-owned. Primary education, i.e. compulsory education, is not a right, but is a duty imposed by the State on parents by the threat of punishment, so only the State can exercise it. It must be implemented in an equal and fair manner. The State is in charge of providing quality education. The responsibility for this is not entirely and only to be passed on to individual primary schools or, as we have heard today, even to individual teachers, I stress my full responsibility. The so-called mixed system of learning organisation, as envisaged by the law, which, as we have heard several times before, is expected to increase the autonomy of schools, at the same time increases the differences between schools and the education system. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we warn that such a system will no longer provide equal opportunities for students, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the system of public education and the provisions on equality before the law, equality of pupils before the law. The competent authorities within the Ministry are also those who give guidance and recommendations on the basis of established professional principles and determine which model is better in terms of learning ability and other psychosocial moments and ensure its implementation in all primary schools. How can parents know which model of teaching is better? Schools will be able to choose them and adapt them from year to year. As for the third teacher, I'm asking why. As predicted, the teacher will circulate in different groups, classes, which means that each group is to receive it once every three weeks. What effect is envisaged? It is not even clear how students will pass between levels of difficulty in the middle of the year when they want to. In doing so, I should point out what this also means for the management of school documentation, additional red tape. And not least, how parents will take it. On the other hand, today, I would like to hear from the government or the competent minister, argued, of course, why and how such autonomy would actually contribute to a better quality of education. I will once again stress at the national level equal and equivalent education. In the Slovenian National Party, which represents a major substantive change in the public school system, we will not support it. Such a law cannot be supported without adequate analysis, without a wider social consensus, and worse still, neither has an expert debate been held on these issues within the framework of the Section for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia, which is provided by law even Article 22 of the Law on Education and Financing or on the Financing of Education and Education. On the other hand, a shorter procedure is proposed for such a fundamental substantive amendment. Otherwise, we also express our fear of the measures taken by this government in such an important area as primary education. In this context, let me remind you today and call for reflection on the intention that the public system of primary education in our country will even receive a church primary school. As we say, we will not support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. A nice welcome from me, too, and thank you to President Tsukati for holding the session so far. I would like to take the floor by inviting Mr Yelen on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u102	Vice President, Mr. Minister, everyone in the Chamber is respected. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act wants to change the existing practice of differentiation and level learning, which in the first, second and third classes provides for only internal differentiation, and in the fourth and seventh classes the level learning is organised only in mathematics, Slovenian language and foreign language up to a maximum of one quarter of hours, and in the eighth and ninth classes a level study is conducted throughout all three of these subjects. The main objectives are to ensure the free decision-making of teachers on internal and external differentiation or level learning throughout the whole period from first to ninth grade. At the same time, a national examination of knowledge from language and mathematics shall be introduced and the third subject shall be appointed by the Minister in March before the end of the ninth class. In the eighth and ninth classes there is an opportunity, but of course it will not be a rule that in the same class at different levels the subject could teach two teachers. Some other less fatal solutions are also proposed. The main objectives of the proposed changes are problematic for several reasons and perspectives. Primary school is compulsory, so free judgment about everything cannot and must not be left to teachers and parents alone under the cover of greater autonomy. So far, compulsory level education in the 8th and 9th classes will depend on teachers and the world of the school and it may not be, which will lead to severe differences. The solution legitimizes discrimination against students and parents who cannot choose a school. The solution will stop good and less good schools, the law does not provide equal conditions for all schools as regards the possibility of teaching two teachers. The law enforces the discretionary right of laziness in the world of parents and can have very different views on the profession in the world of schools. And we could list it. Our view is that in compulsory primary school there must be no difference in the content of the teaching substance, the number of hours for individual subjects at the level of the military. All the discussions so far point to teachers' rejection of proposed changes in parental and union education and education, which did not require a consensus on change. For we have stated in the Coalition Treaty that changes in this area will result from serious reflections and analyses that have not been made. There is no empirical research and no evidence that the practice so far is bad, so for changes only personal views on matters by the Ministry and rare experts, there is not a sufficient basis for such serious changes. For these reasons, we cannot and must not support, in accordance with our belief, what is good for our children at the level of primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. And it is obvious that we have also ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. There is probably no need to note here that this is based on a review of the amendments, because today's review is very short. Anybody want a word? At this point, however, I would like to point out that the debate should try to limit itself to Article 7 and to the amendment. Dr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u104	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Our Group is convinced that if we are already deciding on an intervention such as that decided by the Government, it is obviously quite lonely to see how the school year ends and not in the middle of the school year, or in the last part of the school year, to delete certain articles that say, for example, Article 7 of the Regulation, that the school, on the basis of students' decisions on levels of difficulty in the last week of school in the 7th grade, does not indicate that it is easy to delete the articles. The articles are thoughtful, thoughtful, and represent some kind of whole in this logic. And if you have already initiated a procedure under a certain rule of law, then the fundamental legal security of people would require that this also completes the whole of them in this logic. And if you've already begun, the fundamental legal security of people would require. However, interference with this article or this rule shows the whole issue in a fully defined light. Initially, I have pointed out that the issue we are talking about today is very complex. I understand that we can have ideologically different views about her. I would, however, like to know that the vote will be quite tight, and because I know that many people are aware that it is a very serious decision, that we should all reconsider once again, or that it does not show such a sensitive mechanism as that which is written here in these articles and from which the government has chosen only a few articles, it is obvious that it is not sufficient to examine further carefully. Does it not show, however, that it is a decision to keep at least these articles in the system, because only with careful implementation of the level learning can it come close to the goal which I still hope is our common goal? Our common goal should be: to find ways to get as many as possible. I don't think that would be our common goal. And if we want to give Nivoi instruction in the future, however, some possibilities for survival, then it does not show him how to cut his arms and legs and anything else and then prove that he cannot run; for it is clear that he will not be able to escape. And it would be more than good, therefore, if we were to think fully about the level lesson and not to place the so-called supposed autonomy on schools of decision-making even without the basis of rules that do not belong to them. A strong story about autonomy - and this is what this structure is talking about - has its back: who talks about autonomy if he does not sell pure neoconservative ideology must also talk about responsibility. If, by chance, someone wants to grant autonomy to people only where he is afraid to accept his own responsibility for certain decisions, then this story is called running away from responsibility and not granting autonomy. That it can be that we have to deal with this, it speaks both in this rule and in general in the law as a whole. If someone believed that it was really autonomy, then they would not have a parallel decision by the minister on an article that discusses the choice of the subject in external verification, so they are not smart enough students and there is no autonomy. When it comes to the question of where a student should go at one hour of the day, then his parents must sign it, when it comes to the appointment of a principal or a principal, teachers are not smart enough, someone else must do it in their place, while it is up to them to decide whether or not they will have him or not. This is a reduction of the rights of parents, and we are also thinking of turning to another institution in connection with this article; what we should certainly ensure at least now is that they remain in the law, in the rules, those articles after which we started some proceedings and would be - it is fitting - I hope that they understand at least the lawyers and lawyers in this Chamber - that we do so to the end. Therefore, we propose that this supplement be adopted, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. These articles in this Regulation, which would otherwise have been adopted by law in such a form as it is supplemented, would have been transmitted to the National Assembly, would have partly limited the rights that parents have and would have limited in part the work of professional workers at school in relation to the difficult situation that will lie ahead of the schooling of children, their parents and, of course, teachers in schools at the time of the adoption of this law. I personally believe that these matters have been so amended if we adopt an amended law to show that there are also articles in the Rules that allow them to be consulted further before any children are included in the further educational process. Why? Because, in my opinion, school is one of the key factors in the life of our society at this time, in this civilization, which gives man the ability to progress, the ability to develop spiritually, as well as the ability to develop economically, if I look at a person in the light of the market system. We all say that knowledge is our first value, and therefore it is not surprising that all the countries of the school are trying to design such that this school is also partly of an actionable nature. And if it is done-right, such a school must also be of quality and we have seen more and more activity lately to try to qualify certain schools, even though as a teacher I say it is not good. In a place they know well, this school is good, they say others are not, but they don't have any criteria for it, and they do it somehow after that sense of information they get from children or from the environment. And if so, such a school must be of quality, so we want the schooling youth to have quality schools, then the quality of such a school undoubtedly includes the differentiated subject of such a school. This subject will determine to a large extent, in addition to the rest, whether such a school will implement certain programmes in a high-quality manner or whether such a school will have programmes that will be less quality than others and thus differentiate students. Why do I say that parents, that is, their rights covered by this Rules of Procedure, will face great dilemmas as well? This is because there are quite a few arguments that will cause parents to grow gray hair in further decision-making, especially if parents are actively involved in the design of a differentiated subject. Let me just count a few. The first thing is a well-known Jagar study of the level of instruction and the research carried out by the Institute of Education proves that the level education was well received, that it is supported by parents, teachers and children and that the years of this teaching increase the satisfaction with it. We will now put this thing on the table by adopting such an amended bill. The second thing is that experts such as Dr. Strmčnik point out that the nivostness, such as we have introduced in Slovenia, is the most appropriate form of teaching that enables everyone, good and bad to achieve the best they can. Parents who now have children in this process have slowly become accustomed to this system, and now we will serve them something completely different. Thirdly, the level education will go out if we don't encourage it. By this law - this is my personal assessment - we give the teachers and parents with the proposed amendments the wrong message, namely: don't bother with the teaching of the country, let all of Slovenia be on this level and we will all be happy and happy. For the fourth time, I could say that we have had several attempts in this differentiation that our parents have responded to abundantly. Let me just mention the late Dr. Pučnik who wanted to have classical high school, so he would have differentiated the students after the fourth year, some retired principal of the elementary school, who extended the same thing for two years so that she would have six years of high school, and so on. I think that all these things that I've mentioned haven't received full support anywhere, and all these efforts by these people and circles around these people who have tried to do so have been infertile so far. I also think that the changes made by the government in the law are unclear, mutually exclusive, but they involve mixing the organisation of learning and working methods and, above all, introducing disorder into the system. As a result, they will most likely lead to a deterioration in the quality of our schools, and it is important that in this regulation the articles we added in the light of the amended proposal for a law be extended. What about children's rights, ladies and gentlemen? Those who live in official centers may receive a level lesson. Others, from more rural areas, will not get that. If the families move - now watch out! - it is not clear what opportunities there will be for attending a school with low schooling, as the law now allows each year to decide whether or not a level education will be carried out. So, every elementary school will have something else at the end, but I'll move with my family, say, from Maribor, what I know I won't hurt anyone, in Lower this school and this one, and this school won't have it at all, maybe it'll differentiate, there will be some problems here, of course, so it's good that the articles of this regulation that we gave stay. What about the rights of parents, ladies and gentlemen? In fact, parents will not know what kind of school they are enrolled in, since this year they will make a new decision on the implementation of the level education, so it will not be unusual if a child enters school without a level education, then one year later he will receive it and not again in one year. I don't think this solution is premeditated. The problem is, of course, even more, and could also be listed, which, with the adoption of the amended proposal of the law, are indicated, and so on. That is why I would ask you, and it is good that this amendment, tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, would accept and try to function the rest of the points, from fifth to ninth, so that if this were adopted, parents could have more options in their decisions where they will enter their child or how they will take up the choice of level learning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. It's a waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you. I will support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy because it speaks of a very important matter. Rules also play an important role in the context of legal changes. My experience with the rules is that when we last year amended the law on the organisation and financing of education and education and adopted something about textbooks, it took a year for publishers to identify what this meant for learning volumes. The answer of the Ministry of Education to this written question of my work volumes is, indeed, a chronic proof of what a little thing can be said, but nothing is said.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u109	A little ear, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u110	The key word we listen to is autonomy. All these measures, which are intended to introduce autonomy in school legislation, are not necessarily related to quality and it is not as important whether the teacher is convinced that he is autonomous. For a student it is extremely important that the teacher is good and children have the right to a good teacher. If they had previously applied to the regulations, they would now be able to defend autonomy. And if we watch the news when the local community is supposed to intervene when parents are supposed to get more effective, they can say to the teacher, "What the hell is it that binds you to the provisions?"or the school's leadership: "You're autonomous and you can make that decision." This becomes controversial at the moment when we realize that primary school is compulsory, that all students and students should achieve some basic goals and acquire basic standards of knowledge, and these standards of knowledge are at risk. I support this amendment because it provides at least a minimum opportunity for parents to decide on it, and also for students, of course, how they will be classified. What I see from the changes in school legislation, as I accept it, is the dismantling of the public school that goes in this direction in order to [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u111	I want to interrupt those extra votes that are coming out behind the back of the hall, and not you, Master of Prodation. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, but I am the "cooze" used and I can speak in such a way that they will not get me out of the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u113	All right, then continue the debate with the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u114	But they don't listen. [[...]] What I wanted to say is that I have been given the quality of primary school and that we are going to be able to introduce and have reasons for introducing private primary schools that will be considered elite, and we are going to go to what we know from America or from where else, when parents are planning on which quality elite school they will influence, so that the children's career plan will be crowned with an important function or an important social position. For me, these changes that we are introducing today with this amendment of the law are so long-term that it is unacceptable that we accept this so easily and that no one cares what the word is about. We are pleased that only internal differentiation is commanded, which must be respected by a good teacher with or without legal provisions if he wishes to take account of the student as an entity. Only those who have never had a positive attitude toward school, by going to school or by working at school to learn something, can without concern monitor these changes that we bring into our school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-workers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will support the amendment, which speaks of the addition of the text to Article 7 of this Act, because it is very important to me in the construction of the school system, which I also say from my own experience that when introducing changes to the school system, these changes must be introduced very carefully and deliberately and prepared to introduce changes to all actors involved. Of course, I think first of all about students, teachers and parents. And, of course, when I speak of at least this amendment allowing certain procedures that are already running and running on the basis of the law adopted to allow certain measures already under way at school to be implemented. Of course, it is hard to imagine that today someone would have thought of changing the rules of the game for the football world championship, because I think they would have a very strange appeal in public. We can do this here today because, in fact, we are in the same time dimension until the start of the new school year, because everyone who has ever worked in school knows that all preparations for the new school year are actually made at the end of the school year. I can understand that the Minister is not interested in this debate and is very closely following them. Very carefully, however, we are following these discussions around these issues to change the law on primary school parents, which we have children in different levels of education, and I am one of them myself. And of course, when I speak from my experience, too, that when I have always stepped into a class, I have always had in front of me that every student means something special to me, for which I actually have to do the maximum to create maximum conditions based on his abilities and predispositions, environmental impacts and so on, opportunities for access to knowledge acquisition. At the same time, of course, I adapted forms, methods of work. And many times we have been told that we do not deal enough with those who are either at the top or with those or, above all, those who are having difficulty achieving the goals just before the teacher, in front of the class community in general. Therefore, there are very important ways in which we introduce changes to the school system. And of course I listened very carefully, Mr. Minister, to all your interpretations, not just today. It is too little time for me to talk about everyone, of course, but I would like to point out that when we are making changes - and today you have said that we are going to change in the primary school system because forms of differentiation have been introduced and you are referring to as a level form as the only - of course, extremely affected primary schools. I would like to ask you here for a clear answer on the basis of which data, based on which analyses can clearly justify that these forms, i.e. differentiations with the level of education, have had a major impact on certain schools. Look, I'm sure you're familiar with this study that talks about the analysis of low-level learning. And this analysis certainly speaks of the fact that much of the content of the teaching in the field has been very well received both by teachers and by students, both by parents. At the same time, it also talks about problems, and I can fully agree with you here and agree with those who say that the school system needs to be upgraded. But can we build it up by asking the director, on behalf of autonomy, to get support in the world for those decisions that I think should be agreed upon in the consensus, for the Slovenian school space, for the Slovenian society, for the professional side and for that, for example, for the regulation of this system. And we don't have that on the table today, we don't have that on the table today, and there are too many open questions in the interest of autonomy that we advocate through this. Through my experience, I can say that the autonomy of the teacher is very strongly present today in primary education, i.e. in the school system. And I would very much like to draw attention to the fact that it is not going to be equal, but what we can now say is that so far autonomy has not been, but now we will have additional forms of differentiation that I am convinced and agree that dialogue is necessary; but I am also sure that so quickly, so swiftly, without professional grounds, such an idea will be able to experience and such a change very badly in practice. I wonder, Mr Minister, what are the positions of the profession on which your findings can justify such a measure to bring about a substantial increase or increase in the quality of the primary school system. To this day, I have not heard any argument that you can thus, "ad hoc", arbitrarily guarantee an increase in quality by introducing this system. I wonder what the responsibility will be? Responsibility before us, parents, responsibility before the generations that will be involved in this process of education, if anything goes wrong: will it be the fault of the parents who will confirm a concept in the world, for the principal will always have "way out". I suggested that the school body could change that and the parents could be criticized by other parents for not adopting a different concept. I wonder whether, parents, if we do not agree with this concept, regardless of whether we will be bound to compulsory enrolment in primary schools in accordance with a territorial principle, we will have the opportunity to enroll our child in that school environment, in that primary school which, in my opinion or in the opinion of any parent with such or other behaviour, will have appropriate forms of differentiation. And I wonder if every year's changes will also allow me, as a parent, to decide on copies from one school to another. Of course, I think there are a lot of these solutions that are at issue here, and I am drawing attention to these issues because you provide as much autonomy as possible. So, as much autonomy as possible, and if you guarantee this greater autonomy, then of course we have to guarantee this autonomy on all these open issues. Of course, that is why, Mr Minister, I expect that we will have some answers to this issue, but, of course, I would like to see this amendment adopted, which speaks of those who have already carried out certain procedures being able to proceed in this direction, so that the provisions of this Regulation remain unchanged at certain points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Ministry of Cooperation. Look, now that I'm listening to this debate and this outrageous demagogism, what's going on in the school space in Slovenia, I have to say that if I didn't know you or the Member of Parliament, I would really think that there's some terrible apocalypse going on in Slovenia. That, as has been said, this is the process of decommissioning basic education in Slovenia. Literally, the former minister almost said that the Minister of the Beast would abolish education in Slovenia after Maria Teresa: she introduced him, he would abolish him. And you're talking about radical interventions, then you're using Mrs. Potara to start the quality of primary school and of course the classic arsenal of populism, demagogies, at some point of popular talk - you're trying to intimidate people in every way: now there's going to be private schools, there's going to be private schools, most kids won't be worth anything anymore, but I don't know what. And I have to say that I'm not dealing with this area, but my wife is still a primary school teacher. And I tell you that teachers have always been very concerned about the inconvenientity of your solutions, the previous ones, and that is why I will support the shift towards greater autonomy and internal differentiation, and I will not support this amendment that goes in the direction of stopping, exposing everything. Indeed, this opposition stems from ideological reasons. In the past, the school was misused and used for visual propaganda, subtlely, among the lines. Of course, I understand that you don't like the more role of teachers in the release process, that the product of this more independent personality of children and people when they finish school, and that some political parties, some ideologies, don't like it. A single personality is a problem for some. I also have to say from this place that the director told me when at the beginning of this government's mandate the council of directors was that the husband of our Member, probably has some kind of resource in the school system, I don't know, made a great use of propaganda against - what will happen, how terrible things will happen! An open-minded agitation against an authority that has not yet begun to work! And I must point out from this place that such intimidation of Slovenian citizens and the use of improper qualifications, unreal things, what is changing - it is about improving what has been unreal, non-life, which has also cost too much, not least, and eliminating some of the elements that have been opposed by teachers, parents and everyone. And here you're scaring with some impossible methods.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u119	Mr Jerovšek, I have a duty to draw attention to Article 7 and the amendment. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, no further comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u120	Well, since your Members may be offensive, this is permitted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u121	No, I will also warn our Member. I would like to hold a debate really about the amendment and the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u122	I am talking about the fact that I am against stopping this process of gradual normalisation of primary school. This reform, which has been made in the past, has been inanimate, unreal and would not have produced good results, and, of course, I will not support this amendment either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. There's only one amendment, and it's an opportunity to talk about everything. I think that's why they put him in. I would like to say that this new law does not end the teaching of the nations, because the greatest fear is that the level learning is good and that it is done away with. I also said that in Novi Slovenija we do not welcome him because he groupes children according to knowledge, according to current abilities, but not by what the child is actually able to achieve. Therefore, it seems pointless for us to group children in such an early age, because if primary school is compulsory, it is appropriate for all children to have basic knowledge and a basic explanation. I remember when I went to a presentation on the level before my daughter went to level school, when the principal explained to our principal and the parents what a level lesson is. He also gave a banal example and said, I'll give the table, the table has four legs and a board up; that's, say, for the first level. Second, you say the table can stand in the room, there's a chair or something, and there's a table function for the third level, and so on. [[..]] [[It's a meatball from the bench.]] In that sense, they explained and I imagined, and in fact, the first, the lowest level doesn't get all the explanations. [[..]] It seems to me that this law is unconstitutional, not those, as you now say, that the new forms are unconstitutional. Because I want my child, even if at the moment, for example, someone seems to have two knowledge, that he too gets an explanation a little wider, not just what they think this child is capable of at that moment. As a result, new forms also seem more acceptable to me because the number of teachers remains declining, the proportion of the country's investment in knowledge, in children, is increasing. And right, even in the first grade we already know, let's say that two teachers are in class at the same time and one is dealing with those who are possibly worse, the other with those who are more talented and so on. The point is that they must acquire basic knowledge and overcome it. And I don't know why we're so papal when we're introducing a level study, and in fact, some Scandinavian countries have already shut it down. And as I said, I don't mind, but I like that we're also giving this opportunity to have parents and teachers decide now -- I remember, I wasn't among the loudest in school because I didn't know what level learning was like, and I don't think I know it based on my children, but many parents, even teachers, were saying, "Shh, that's right, that's what the minister said!" Again, when we proposed, "That's right, nothing can be changed!" Now the parents have the opportunity and the responsibility, and I am very interested in how many parents will decide to propose to change the level education, or the teachers. The teachers also said - you can laugh, Mr. Gaber, but they say, "I'm not into it either, but I can't say anything, I can't say anything." Was there anything to be said at school? You shouldn't have said that. And the first thing is, if we stop the level education, you'll be on the road - 500 teachers are supposed to be on the road. And after this novel of law, no teacher will be too much, everyone will be needed to raise the level, even to raise the knowledge. A national survey or a TINS survey has also shown that our students do not have the best knowledge or that we would like to have better, and it is right that the country is more investing in the knowledge and achievements of our children. This is how we will support this novel, but we will not support this amendment, which I think is just to erase the other options and that it remains the only saving so-called level learning.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you. I invite Mr. Kokal to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u126	I'm sorry, I haven't been able to follow the debate since the beginning, but I think now is a good time to say my point of view. My position is Mr, then Minister, heard and received in 1995 supported by the 95 mayors at the time, including Mr Rupel, when nine years or levels of instruction were introduced into force, fraud and bribery. That was the situation. In a petition signed by the mayors, we have requested that the reform of the school system be coordinated with the local communities that are the founders under the law. We also asked on behalf of the parents to coordinate with the parents' representatives, both initiatives were carried out with the words of the Minister of that time, "you will have enough authority." And of course, given that I was also the mayor later, I saw that the primary school system went into a completely hermetically closed system, which was practically dictated politically by the position of one person, the Minister of Education, in the person of Mr Gabra. Through the institutions, formal institutions, virtually nothing could be affected. The basic programme is prescribed, the finances are therefore conditional, investments that have been made by changes in the school system at the time. they were catastrophic. Politically, it invested in these investments and there were disproportionate spaces, and elsewhere where people needed it for basic survival, nothing was invested. I'm talking about the fact that very heavy investment costs also occurred due to the needs of low schooling, organizationally the first schools that went to this, literally bribed, together with the municipalities received additional money, those who then had to go, but of course nothing and so did [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u127	Mr Kokalj, you may have previously heard my warning that it would nevertheless suggest discussing only the article and only the amendment if we do not open the general debate on the law and we can extend the debate for the whole day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u128	I'm talking about the level lesson, Mr. Pavliha, and how it started and why we're where we are now and why it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u129	And that's why I'm warning you in more levels all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u130	Can I talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u131	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u132	Then I'm waiting for you to tell me what I can say, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u133	On the Article and Amendment of the LDS Group of Members. That's what I'm alerting you both to, and to the right and to the left and to the middle. This is my duty, according to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u134	But it's my right to say what I think is a level lesson. Does the amendment touch on the level of instruction, Mr. Chairman? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u135	Of course everything, but we say - by this logic, of course, we can reopen the general debate on the law, but in doubt, of course, I will not deny the right to speak, say what you want. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I understand this amendment of the law, which is proposed, as one very, I will say, after my assessment of the weak movement of matters in the direction of the resolution of the situation in which we were brought. And of course this amendment, as far as I understand it, is trying in some nice way to stop the matter, if I understand the amendment correctly. But if I'm wrong, the other side will probably say it differently. I must certainly say that good intentions in this segment cannot be attributed to the former Minister; experience is not easy. Finally, I hope that the amendment of this law will mean that the matter will begin to normalize and that our children in primary school will be educated in basic matters and the whole system will be encouraged in this direction, so that their talents can be learned and the school system will also be fully upgraded, which is not now being upgraded by what has been introduced. I think that the urgent situation needs to be addressed, because we get differentiated children at the end of primary school, but the continuation of schooling is not adapted and it makes no sense: for the first time organisational, for the second time technically, for the third time financially, but for the fourth time I can say that although schools have worked very hard and have set up a level education, schools are subject to each other's conditions, and therefore children are in an unequal situation. They're in an unequal position because they can't afford everything that kids and parents would want. However, I think that this change brings, within certain frameworks, at least to the fact that an individual school, given its potential and the ambitions of the parents, will try to adapt to the symma, but still to the low-level teaching, if it so wishes, to what it can do. I don't think there's gonna be any more differences like that, no matter what parents want for their children. As I have already said, I do not support this amendment, because I understand it as I said, that in some way it is trying to neutralize the measure that the law brings, but if I am wrong, of course I will probably get an additional explanation. So much so, Mr President, it is very difficult to discuss when a rule ceases to apply, you know, and by when does another matter end, then we cannot discuss it at all if we cannot discuss the content, because the matter itself concerns the content at its final stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. You know me well that in doubt I am always inclined to debate and that which is the word of Parliament, even that, of course, I allow everyone to talk about anything, at least to be a little connected with primary education. Mr. Gulic, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u138	I must say that, Madam President, I intended to give up my word because I think it is important, however, that we be able to speak, even because it is a matter of law by swift procedure and there were no other opportunities. And I'd like to say a few words about that. Education is an investment in the future, and it seems to me that so important is the matter with which the National Assembly must deal with it, that, of course, the speedy process and the fact that it is simply a simple majority vote is not enough. Here we should be much more unanimous when it comes to any interference in such a sensitive topic and, of course, in the purely general sense, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that autonomy is left to me in some way now does not mean that autonomy is left to teachers, parents, children, and I don't know who else, in fact, means nothing to me but that the minister doesn't want to deal with the fact that he just leaves this responsibility to someone else, and then let him deal with all the consequences. This, of course, is not freedom of thought and freedom, but it is a simple comfort for the minister and, of course, those who view it that way, I do not think it is good that he is a minister. It is not good that, on the one hand, he accepts everything that the professions tell, or what different professions tell, because they tell, those who actually work in schools and who know very well what they have to do, and on the other hand, carelessness will be somehow. Such a relationship is not constructive, of course, and has led to the fact that something changes quickly again after some "by passports" that is, in fact, so in the terms "not abolishing" a level learning but that, of course, it is possible in all ways as quickly and as easily as possible to terminate. First, to prevent it from working at all, then, of course, to conclude that it is not a good and, in the end, a purely normal liquidation. For this reason, of course, I will not support this law in any way. Even the good solutions that may be in it are thus overrated. I don't think that's good enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u140	Just a very short comment. I think that in adopting this law and the comments that followed, we did not do so in the LDS, but it should be said that such laws should be adopted by consensus, not by laws adopted by the National Assembly, then by the former Minister to be watered with manure. When we first adopted some positive energy in the field of school law, it was said here today, because, for example, Archbishop Anton Šuštar, in his personal letter to the minister of 3.2.1995, gave all the recognition and sincere thanks for the well-prepared white book to the minister and his fellow workers. And he wrote, "I am sure that such a solid work will be a solid basis for debate on education and education in our country." I have a bunch of opposition and positions that have supported the goals that have been supported and worked hand in hand. But it seems to me that you take too little account of the fact that people have given you power - not in ownership, but - that you have been authorized to do so, and in my opinion you have little regard for public opinion, not enough respect for your profession, you have once a student on the street, you have a union on the street, and you have a non-stop opposition on the trenches. Of course not everywhere, just in some areas. So I would say: let's calm down a little ball, give it a hand, and try to solve it in another way. For this is the law, if it is adopted, it will mean that your education will give you a rise or a fall in your personal life. And we will send, if we accept this - in my opinion, I can be wrong, but also the profession confirms this - students of the elementary school in the northern triangular wall without being trained for this. And this is state damage, so let's try to deal with this more with patience, try to reach common solutions, not stubbornly stay in our trenches.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u141	Yes, Mr Mogue, I am also obliged to warn you that this was not a debate on the article and on the amendment, but, as I have said before; obviously all my words run against the wall, so I kindly invite the next debaters to speak what is on their soul. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with the co-workers! Today, in this debate, the thoughts expressed give me some strange sensations, of course not in everyone, but in some. But I must admit, some words remind me of that time right after the election. At that time, there was much talk, and it said that the shadow would be darkened, that it would no longer rise in the east, that the grass would no longer grow, that everything would be supported, that the economy would collapse, that we were already hearing about the dismantling of the school system. But look at the fraction they would say: the sun continues to rise, indeed, sometimes it is rain, especially if there are demonstrations; the grass is still green, very lush, and the most critical minister has been since the beginning, Dr. Bayuk, who, after some, has not been able to separate the bill from the coin, has become suddenly the Minister of Finance of the European Union; economic growth is rising, the indicators are improving up, Europe recognises it. We are the only ones in the European Union that have reached convergence criteria. So, that fear at the beginning or that scare was way out of line. And equally, I am sure it will also happen in the school area: no disassembly of the school system, primary school or anything else, at least I don't see it. But something else is true that the school has so far been a strictly liberalized system. I don't know if it was me who was lucky that I was always talking to the teachers when they kept complaining that they had to fill out some forms and some reports were written, because they had this seminar, and they had to do it, and they had to make it so that they could introduce it -- a live bureaucratic system, nothing else. They probably had some more time for the pedagogical process, and they probably still made it to the classroom. Everything was prescribed, everything was simply uniformed, none of the teachers had to do anything according to their creative abilities, abilities, or the like. I have talked about a lack of trust in teachers in this room many times. Maybe it wasn't meant to be, but that's how the system went down. If the teacher can only go some way and there can't be anything left to the right - but here I don't think ideologically left but right - or nothing to move away from that, then it certainly isn't good. It's the same in the field. If everything is written down, it's definitely not good, it's not good. And the fact that it will be different or at least slightly different, that it will not be necessary to prescribe everything that teachers can also do in their own way, I think it is already a little more relaxing for teachers, and I think that means a little more autonomy of the teacher and, after all, it also means a more relaxed learning process and that means a little more confidence in teachers. Perhaps the teachers were no longer aware that they had everything prescribed and that this was a lack of trust in them. I imagine it in the first phase, that's mistrust for me if someone just prescribes me how I can do it, and what I have to do, but nothing is left to think that I can do something in my opinion, and not ideological, that we can understand each other, maybe according to my creative abilities that someone has, that they can show something like that. We went to school ourselves, and we thought it was very appropriate, very good and very interesting if the teacher told us something outside of that strict context. It doesn't have to be that way for a month, but by the way, he showed us that practical thing, say. That it wasn't strictly yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's what this is about. And that also means greater responsibility for teaching workers, but I'm sure they're not afraid of it. On the contrary, they want it. This also means that teachers can be more innovative, not that they have so far not been able to be, but that they have been mentioned. If you're in a tight dress, you can't even move. And I feel the same way about the pedagogical process. That is why, of course, I will not support this amendment, because the path, which is somehow drawn, seems to allow for more creativity and ingenuity and a greater display of the ability of teachers. I'm sure the teachers are very capable, but if they're still in some tight dress, they can't show everything. I don't blame teachers, so far they couldn't have been, I don't know, more creative, innovative, because they had everything prescribed, just like that. We have to deal with this. Nor is it the case that voices appear right now, that it is a fear that children in all schools will not have the same education. I am sure that all of them will have that appropriate level, but only one school will show a little better, because teachers will have a slightly different approach, with greater responsibility, and parents will probably give some ideas, too, and they will probably give them. Some school will get out of this system of good average, I'll say, get out and look at the fraction, but that's really wrong for us if some of the students who go to this school have a little bit more knowledge, something else, a little bit more creative looking at the whole thing, because we all have to be the same, unified, God doesn't let one go down, but maybe not at all. I am sorry or luckily, in the world and also in Europe, ranking occurs: good or bad, it will be the same in the school system. Europe is just ahead of taking this matter seriously at other levels than primary school. To rank matters, universities, secondary schools, as well as individual schools will be held in individual countries. That's what's gonna happen. If we have everything prescribed, then it can't happen. This will also be a good starting point for further education, because our children will probably also go to those schools, then forwards, those that are no longer compulsory, where they will have a higher rank. And the sooner we learn about it in Slovenia, the better it will be, the more of these children will stay in school at home. Primary school is certainly a preschool for future life. I'd have a lot to say, but my colleagues are probably going to add something to it. I will not support this, because I believe that a slightly more relaxed and less unified learning process and all that is involved in this can not be harmed by the fact that something good can be born, something better, because life is not only a prescription and living in that tight dress, but it is also something else. Before we teach our children this, it will be easier for them then in life, and I think it will be a great journey for them more than, perhaps, if they know some coefficient in mind, but everyone knows it at midnight or at 3:00 in the morning if they wake him up. Because that coefficient can also be seen in the manual, and so we have manuals, either as a book, or as an Internet, or as any other learning aid. So, of course, I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Secretary, your coworkers. The amendment, as it is, is of course nothing special in itself, but it gives us some opportunity to debate more broadly. Since he is talking about a level lesson, it is, of course, possible for a Member to say what each of us thinks about it. Since I was present in the previous reference as a Member, of course I know that the previous Minister of the opposition's proposals did not take much into account, but did not take them into account, and if this held up what my colleague Može said, then, of course, we would not have the whole movement of the 'human-measured school' which gathered even a team of experts from this area precisely because the Minister excluded them from this preparatory and decision-making process. But as for the level learning itself, I also think - and when I went to school that wasn't as bad as it was trying to show today - that this school system needs to be changed again, I didn't agree with it, it was then that all the children were in the classroom, we all got the same substance, and then, for example, in those difficult subjects such as mathematics, there was an extra class organized where those who were slightly better helped those who were worse, but in the end we all came to have dance lessons for the prize. And that's when I felt that it was an extremely good model, because the teacher himself introduced it, not by socialism, but by the teacher who was there, he introduced it, and in this way he taught the children maximum mathematics, and then he said to me, "You know, when I was doing this, I've already seen among you who would be suitable for a teacher." Of course, then they also advised the students where to sign up, says one excellent model, how they have somehow gained insight through this, but who would be behind this profession, so this has proved to be in this solidarity among the students. It's a shame we didn't leave this autonomy to schools so that we could design our school system in such a creative way. Maybe I'd be different today, and I actually understand that as a flexible differentiation, if anything, it must have been. So that's what I had to say, because I'm also grateful to this teacher who's been taking it this way and who's been able to interest us, and I think we've learned to dance through this, and that's what our young people don't know many times today. In order to choose students at the primary level, primary school, which is a compulsory school, you know, I don't want to, either, because children living together in some environment are right to go to school together, which means some way of socialising, socializing. I don't know. I don't think that's a good thing. And one more thing I'm going to say about this increased autonomy of the school and the teachers that we should give them, the daughter told me, it's been a long time now, because it's already in the third year of high school, but when she was in elementary school, she got the question to tell the human development lesson. Since we taught her at home that God had made man, she responded as well. Otherwise, the teacher found herself very well, yes, so they teach you at home, and now you say as we teach you at school, and then she repeated that famous theory of Darwin's creation, and I wondered why we wouldn't let children at this stage and with the help of a teacher form a separate view, but not that they have to be round and say exactly, I don't know, in history to a peak, like the book says, all the years and all the branches and dots. Such an approach certainly does not contribute to the quality we want. And for the end, one more sentence. Look, about the levels of people to go as far as our fellow Member Gaber imagined, I know one myself, today already a lady who was a candidate, at the time, we said, for an auxiliary school, today we call it otherwise, or these special schools are no longer, but today the same lady has two doctorates. A matter can take place in a completely different way in some years than later, and it needs to be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I just want to say this. I agree when you say that you do not stop the Nivoi teaching with the text of the law, but I would like to recall the words that you wanted it to be carried away at the time of the introduction of the Nivoi teaching as a form of differentiation. And the way we're changing it today is going in this direction to take it away, at least that's what Mrs. Uhanova said on the committee. Here I am just reminding you that today, a few years have passed since you wanted to take this away, today we have an analysis of the consequences of the introduction. We can see that all these forms have been well-adopted during this time, and I find it a pity to insist on a decision that you made a few years ago. All I want to say is this. If you are talking about the fact that the dress was so narrow in teachers, in principals, in all those who created the school field, I would just say this to you; look at the school's annual work plans, look at the teacher's annual work plans in these schools, look at the role of parents, look at the role of the environment in which we are, and see how much creativity there were here, how many different opportunities there were for applying, how many projects that were being implemented. I'm just talking here based on facts. I could bring you these documents, and I wish that, given that this analysis was done in 2005 and the end of 2006, I hope that at that time those who had the opportunity to co-create this analysis could have told the truth, because during this period Dr. Gaber was in a situation where he was no longer Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Secretary-General with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The amendment to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the basic school law to Article 7, which I would like to justify by not supporting it, will be supported by a concrete fact. I find it difficult to make important decisions, as school is without question, either on my mind or without any help. And already on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, when we discussed this subject, I have already provided myself with a system and a way of working a year ago, so that I can consult teachers, principals, directors about specific matters so that I can make it as easy for me to make my decisions as possible, I will say, morally clean and do what is right for parents, school workers and children. Let me read to you, dear colleagues and colleagues, what I received at my request to make it easier for me to decide from one of the principals of primary schools. "I would like to tell you that you can count on and always turn to me if you want any written support from practice or any cooperation in the consideration of proposals for changes in the field of education, in order to make it easier for you in the Parliamentary Committee on Education and also in Parliament. Especially in situations that are a little more spirit-breathing. I do not imagine that at our school we are special compared to other Slovenian schools, or I as principal compared to other principals, but I am prepared to help you with my best efforts. We went in the second round in a nine-year-old, and we've had quite a few experiences. I absolutely support the education vision drawn up by Minister Milan Zver, as well as the changes that are to be addressed at the end of this school year. I also trust the Minister in everything. I know he thinks and works honestly for the good of every child. This is just one of the written initiatives I have received. Of course, in interviews, when I meet at various events at primary schools, where I go, I am always interested in legislation in their field of work and life. And I am sure that we will use such a way of working so that it will be much easier for us to make our concrete decisions, because, after all, we bear a great burden, but above all a great responsibility when we decide tomorrow and the future fate of our children, which, of course, are often in the financial burden of our parents and perhaps the environment from which they come. However, it was one of the fundamental leaders when I sought help today to make a decision on this only amendment. So, as has already been said, I will not support the amendment to Article 7 in the proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I called earlier because I wanted to talk about Mr Archbishop and about who or who would take him back to the National Assembly. In fact, it has been said that this is a subject that would require a high level of consensus that this should be the goal, and I personally agree. And in what we are accepting today, I see an opportunity to reach consensus, because it is only about giving more freedom, more choices for schools themselves. At the same time, I wonder why such a debate is, in fact, so much opposition. Is it possible that someone’s fear of freedom, for freedom also brings responsibility, brings more responsibility? I fear that it is in this very core of the story - that it is a matter of fear of freedom, of responsibility, of a more effective and realistic measurement of the effects of the law. For all this novelty, which we speak of today, brings. I therefore personally support it, but I oppose unnecessary amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have two more announced debates, the first is Mrs Pecanova and then Mrs Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I support the amendment because it seems very clear to me that it is a very simple thing to say, namely that the school year must end as it began, not that the last month things start to change. However, I would like to tell Mr Sok that creativity cannot be a dogma taught in primary schools financed by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. [[It's a mutual conversation.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u153	Please let any such debate take place outside this Chamber. And Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much again. My colleagues encouraged me to call again. Even today, we are critical of the level of instruction, and in the opening presentation of the Group of Members, I have said why. We are not going to go to the level of knowledge that they will achieve, because these results are practically not yet in many schools, because some of them have just started with a low school education, but because of other factors, that children are marked during the twelve years when they are separated into good, bad and better, and their home class is divided, and they say, "Pifflars go together, stick, and go together." In fact, this is true in many schools, and good children also say that it would be better for them to be together. However, we do not dispute any school that will continue with the level of instruction to lead any anti-propaganda against the level of instruction, nor did some principals say that they are satisfied because the classes are small and that they are doing well, and we respect their will. However, I believe that many teachers are also satisfied with the level of instruction, and it certainly makes it easier for teachers to teach if they have the same group, the same homogeneous group as there, when you have from those who are hard to learn, who are not interested in the substance, to those who are above-averagely gifted, and who need to adapt to both lectures and tests and so on. There have also been other problems when you did not ask whether the school even has room or meets the conditions that it can perform a nine-year-old. I come from a congregation where the four classes of the eighth grade were eight years old and four nine years old, and these four were divided into three more, and that was a huge eighth grade, huge staffing problems, organizational problems, a lot of administrations, and that's what the teachers are full of, they say they're recording everything, instead of dealing with children's feelings, education and so on. And there's something else. You're very concerned about what happens if a child signs from one school to another. I think the child is mostly worried about losing friends, not whether it's a level education or not. He cares if he gets friends there, not if he goes to the second, third, level. I think that every school has to give basic knowledge and if it comes from Ljubljana, say Trebnje, I don't know why, if there's no level learning in Ljubljana or vice versa, it will achieve less knowledge there and have problems at the next school, the number of hours will remain the same, the program will remain and so on. Explain why he'd have problems if he signed up for the next school. With what, with the knowledge, will he be disturbed by the fact that there will be no more groups? What if he's not the best, what if he's the first-level guy? In short, there's a lot of questions. It is right for schools, teachers, and parents to decide and finally give them one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. And Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Basic School Act, which we listen to today as we did yesterday, we have a slightly different view. I think that Mr Gabra's view in certain respects was positive, and it was not so bad, and certainly Mr Beast comes from a different point of view and from a slightly different point of view. And just like the principals look at one another, one way or another, it's perfectly normal, legitimate and logical. We also discussed yesterday about the unfortunate or happy amendment of article 22 to public order and peace when we are talking about the age of 16 of the child. We have different opinions. I have heard a lot of positive today that this was a good decision by the National Assembly to support that amendment that children under the age of 16 cannot go without accompanying their parents after 24 hours to liquor bars, cigarettes, etc. On this issue, however, this is a refreshment, and I see this autonomy as a positive step, and I think that this decision and this move are good, useful. These greater opportunities given to school principals, in the institution, are very important at this time for our child, I think they are a step forward. Of course, that's my personal view. That elementary school I was doing back then was like that. The one my kid's doing today is a little different. Personally, it would be the best gold environment, but we don't have it yet. Maybe it's a step towards her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike, then Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I do not have much experience in the field of education, because for the first time I have never worked in this area, I have gained experience when I went to primary school alone and when I was dealing with my children who also went to primary school. The goal of each school is to draw the maximum of students and to train them well and prepare them for life, and so creative a life that is divided, if we look at it, we can say then on the gamma curve, every job is honorable and the fact that it is necessary to draw the maximum out of the school system. Such a maximum that all professions to sort themselves out later fill the branches with these young people and that the school allows them maximum good conditions for acquiring knowledge. It is right to give more responsibility to parents and teachers in this area, since this increased responsibility also assumes responsibility, when and how to teach in the field and how to deal with it. It's not right to ban it, of course it's wrong. However, it is not right to prescribe that it should be the same, for, as the speaker has already said before me, there is a golden middle. The school system has to choose the best personnel, it has to recruit them further to school, the best staff, we need scientists, we need very good experts in a wide range of fields. It is also right that at the very beginning we do not separate children too much, and this separation must not be, as I say, harsh. It is therefore right for parents to decide for themselves to have a major impact on this, so I also support this law, and I support the amendment proposed by those who think otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr Vice President, Mr Secretary-General, for your cooperation. I will not support the proposed amendment myself, but I would like to comment on the statement made by my colleague, Mr Mojet, when he said it looks like we are going to send the children to Triglav by amending this legislation. And I'd call it, we had a very bad school that we taught them for nine years, and then we sent the ignorant to Triglav. By amending the legislation by which we allow or allow teaching assemblies, parents, principals and, last but not least, the minister, when he decides, will adapt and if he finds that after 9 years of school children are unable to go to Triglav, they will go to Mali Triglav.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I may have allowed too much discussion, but whatever. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Will I take another step forward and even ask if anyone else wants to discuss it? [[...]] Mag. Spending, don't you have any more time? [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] No, no, no, no, no. These are the amendments. [[...]] Nothing, then I have no choice but to ask the Minister if I would. Please, Minister, you have the floor. I can get out of here, and if I'm right, you've got five more minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer some questions only briefly in the time I have been given. First of all, is this the central or radical changes that we are introducing? Of course they're medium and they're kind of a compromise between [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u163	I'd like you to listen to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u164	We do not abolish the teaching of the military, but we only allow the possibility; the pure radical position which we have advocated and suggested several times also to us by the former Minister, Ambassador Gaber, would be the abolition of one and the introduction of the other, but I have already stressed several times, such a radically clean position I will not change, what we want is to make the school system better, more flexible, which will bring better results. I also do not think or would like to see some factors that are outside the school system, outside the profession or outside those factors that have their place in the decision-making system, influence or include influence on school legislation, as has been the case so far, that trade unions have triggered or affected the adoption of a normative system, the publishers have influenced the adoption of a normative system because they have had a capital interest. Recently we were able to read a paid advertisement in one of the Slovenian newspapers in the Journal: Me and the teachers we stand up for or are against the Beast model or change, which we will simply not allow anymore, we want to make decisions about the school system of those who are allowed by law. Informal groups, as has been the case so far, will not be allowed to have a decisive impact on school policy-making. Now, allow me another key thought that I wish to stress. Several times you have pointed out that autonomous schools, an autonomous decentralised school system, will bring too much difference. There are studies, Mr Germič, including other studies, not only those in which you have been looking at, but also quite unilaterally, which say that a single school brings greater differences, a single system brings greater differences in children's knowledge and vice versa where a diverse school is possible. What we introduce, as in Sweden for example, is the final results of more uniform knowledge. Look at this logic, do you understand the one who advocates a unified school? You have to allow different conditions for schools because they're in different situations. Different approaches, different ways to achieve the same goal. The range of performance in Germany, where they have such a uniform one, is 75% and in Sweden 9%. Do you see any other organizational logic? He has me because I have been teaching sociological theories in recent years to say here also about Luman, Lukman, Berger, Wilke, who talks about post-modern systems, about autopoetic systems, about autonomous systems that give the most of themselves, and which are also characteristic of post-modern social structure; and we cannot today, in the 21st century defend one organisational model that is typical of an industrial society or of the 20th century, or as the Ferdist school of the first half of the 20th century has been called. Please, what we are doing with this novel is to open the door to the school, to breathe freely and to choose the optimal condition with which it will reach the same goal, that is to the highest possible quality of knowledge, not to reproduce the difference. You've ever wondered if level learning can reproduce differences. To connect that the correlation with the social structure, that in a lower level is more generally collected by those who are below the social level, or you think this is social segregation, you use the same logic in criticising the Ivy Model. I ask you once again for a thorough and responsible reflection. Even those who make decisions in one way or another take responsibility for it. It is true that I take political responsibility for the model I am offering, but also all those who will vote in one way or another, take part in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. If I'm not mistaken, both of you signed up, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, then Mr Zagorac. Who's first, who's second? Then Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. Although I did not have much intention to comment on this item on the agenda myself, I did not have to listen to a few of the statements made, although you really gave praise to the very broad debate, which, in my opinion, was not in line with the business arrangements, because I do not remember that apart from a few members by the motioners talking about the amendment, and the others talking about the whole thing on average, about education and education, so I will also dare to discuss the whole matter a little more. One such statement, which I have heard from one of the Members, was that children decide on the basis of friends, which school will be better for them, which school will be less suitable for them. Kids go to school when they're six years old, and I believe they have a priority view of school, which school has a nicer playground, where their kindergarten friends go, and if possible some parents say, this school is good, because I went there myself. For each responsible parent, the priority must be the knowledge that the child will receive at the end of the schooling. And that's this parental influence that some people talked about yesterday. That is why I am sure that this differentiation of schools across different areas will not be in an equivalent position and that parents will force children to those schools where we are confident they will get more knowledge. I have also heard some statements about how good it is for each government to have its own views. But it just seems to me that a system or a view - I don't know if your view will last longer than four years - has to be taken to the end. Last but not least, we're confusing the kids in these schools. I can tell you that alone and perhaps some other Members here we have witnessed all these changes in education systems, and I tell you that confusion is mainly with children and also with parents. Some of you were lucky, but you worked in one system and one system. We haven't had that luck and I'll tell you, big mess! You need to know that during the duration of one government, any government, or right or left, the child comes, if he starts in the first grade, he gets to the fourth, and then he changes the system again, because that feels good to someone. I'll back up the motions myself. I think that with such changes and with such unserious work in such a law as the Basic Education Act, in the middle of the school year, in the short run, with as important data as we heard yesterday, how important education is - I think you're playing with, not the other than just the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I was obliged to explain to my colleague Zagorec that he had not been in the hall before. I myself have decided, in accordance with the business provisions which give me the opportunity to interpret the Rules of Procedure, to open the debate wide, as no warning has been given. So you could talk about anything you've been talking about. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for allowing such a broad debate, because it is not least a law that has important substantive changes that will bring about important changes in the field of primary education as it is set up. My friend Zagorac said more or less everything I wanted to say on my own. But once again, Minister, I would ask you, given that it was from your speech to understand how nice it is to introduce what you are introducing, how important these changes are, because they will bring, I don't know, a very effective primary school system that we obviously don't have in our country today. Why do we today adopt a short - term marriage?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u169	Madam Member, may I just point out that the Minister is unfortunately no longer in time, so I would like to ask you not to ask him questions now. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u170	This question has already been raised in my opening presentation on behalf of the Group of Members. Finally, it is good for the public to hear questions or dilemmas that have not been answered. Today we are adopting a law that is substantively important, and we are adopting it in a reduced procedure and, as we have heard, past the professional public, past the laziness of the public or even in opposition to experts in this area. This is what is important and what needs to be taken into account. However, I would like to refer to the words spoken before me by my colleague Zagorac. In the middle of the school year, we introduce important content news at the expense of children. I was involved in this system myself, and I fell from a full-day school system to a divided school system. I'll tell you, it's a complete mess because we didn't have a history class or a textbook.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for it, but it did so that the government has spent its time, and business opportunities do not give me the opportunity to extend that time, unless we vote on it, the only problem is that we will probably crash into indiscretion and extend the session for a few hours, which is certainly none of the interests of anyone. Now they have the same word as they signed up: Dr. Gaber, mag. And then Mr. Bajc, if anyone wants to later, if they have time. So, Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u172	I would suggest that, for starters, some people take off their black glasses when they go to school, and they will see things in our school differently. Otherwise, I warn the Minister; the parents of the primary schools of the Ljubljana region in Primorsk are against this, the experts, the department of pedagogy are against the reduced procedure, the association of principals has warned you that it is against, the union is against, it might be good to think about it and take time for such serious dilemmas as we have heard here today, only the cowards are doing otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mag. The priest has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! At this point in the debate, I would ask myself how some of the freedom that was said to be feared by those who oppose this change understands; freedom is not that you do what you want and that you have a free choice of conduct in the compulsory part of primary school. There can't be the perfect freedom someone imagines. I also understand freedom with the rights of others, and the right of all parents is that their children in primary school receive comparable knowledge that the results are comparable. This amendment, however, will make a legal difference in relation to the different behaviour of individual teachers, which is supposed to be greater autonomy and freedom. I don't like that kind of freedom, and it's just that we understand the same thing in a hundred different ways. The Constitution states that religious freedom, for example, is limited by the freedom of others, and we have walked it through a law on religious freedom. Rights within the meaning of the Constitution have only those who give up their constitutional right, and here something similar is happening in the way and under the flag of the autonomy of the school. On the compulsory basis of the school, parents are expected to decide on highly demanding professional issues. That's stupid. That's nice of you to say. I have done more than primary school, but something else, college, specialization, master's degree, but I have no idea about these things, at least not enough to discuss, which is why I fear that most laymen in this room are talking about this matter, as if everything is clear to me, it is not, so I am afraid of changes that are not supported by the profession in much of the work, at least in view of what we have heard within the debates in the Slovenian professional public at the time that this change was prepared. This is not an attack on the desire for change, this is a demand for responsible action when we are trying to introduce changes, and in this sense we cannot support it. But when I read this law once and for all, I felt that it was difficult for holy schools, for parents to decide whether or not there would be a level education, and my hair would go to the end. It's too simplistic, I'd say, thinking for such an important thing. To understand each other, during the game, Mr. Minister, the rules are not changing, and we will change in the middle of the schooling, we will introduce, we will end up teaching at some point, at one school every nine years, at the other school no year, and so on, of course, there will be no difference in that, and then there will be a question of who will answer if at all. The point is that we should understand the matter, not who has the majority, who will vote, it is the children of all, including those who did not vote us and those who did not go to the elections at all, and we each see freedom through their ideological prism, and there are many others in this compulsory primary school, where everyone could do what he wants, in his own way, every school for himself. I know why not also comparisons from the German system, for all nine years there gets a teacher on the table teaching content without the possibility of voting, that all the same things will be known when they go to admission exams or not to go to college, but here it is mandatory and we cannot give one more to the compulsory school, and to the other less, or to one of the two teachers for some class on the low ground, but to the other one, it is not possible, but we have a majority who thinks in their own way and uses less expertise to not say even less sense, with all responsibility and not to try to hurt anyone. This is a matter of serious consideration and therefore there was no opportunity, or civil society and the professional public did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. My colleague Tavšov is also a colleague of mags. I would like to say to Genjidaršič that this law also has Article 8 and, in Latin, this provision would be called 'vacacio legis', the law will not change the situation during the school year, but the law will enter into force after publication in the Official Journal and will apply as from 1 September 2006.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok. What about the replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Obviously, I was misunderstood or misinterpreted in my own way. Today we are not on August 31st, I know that the school year lasts until August 31st or that the new school year begins on September 1st. Today is that day, we are talking about this change in May, and we are introducing a change in the middle of the school year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. All I'd like to do is tell my colleague Dr. Gabru if he thinks that the black glasses are blurring his eyesight, that even through the red, he can't be clearly seen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Gaber mentioned in the last debate some institutions and environments that are against this change, but he did not, of course, say who those who support it are, because there are many who support it between different institutions and professional people. In addition, among those who were not supposed to support this, he also mentioned, for example, the coastal parents who were supposed to be against what is purely false, that is not true, that is exactly the opposite, the coastal parents support this change. It was also mentioned that during the school year the rules of the game do not change, but when it is possible to change the rules of the game at all, or perhaps in August, when there is also a holiday, what is the right time. It's only necessary once. Today we have this law on the agenda, which is how it came to be, and therefore I think that the obvious that the rules do not change during the school year is unjustifiable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, if you allow me to round up and there will be a vote at 14.15, i.e. quarter to three. Thank you very much. It's good for those of you who go to eat. There's a vote at 2:15. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u184	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I ask you to take your seats, because we will begin our vote. And a standard warning. Please check the operation of the voting devices, see if the card is inserted on your right side and if the orange light is on fire. Can I have your attention, please? With regard to the 11th point, I inform you that, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the e-commerce law on the market on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, in the framework of the votes. With regard to the 13th point, the assembly will vote on the Biocidal Products Act on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, as part of the vote, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. With regard to point 14, we will vote on the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, in the framework of the votes. With regard to the 16th point, we will also vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Varieties of Plants on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it has not been possible to table amendments at this stage, we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour and none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Even at this stage, amendments could not be tabled, so we will just decide on the bill. Once again, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Music Schools Act, the reduced procedure. We're moving to third reading. In the context of the reduced procedure and since it was not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we will decide on the proposal. We're voting. There were 68 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law. Restricted procedure, second treatment. We decide on the amendment tabled by the LDS Group to Article 7. Mag. Spending, I assume, on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We will support the proposed amendment of the LDS Club because we believe that there is at least a slight derailment in this amendment so that the major changes proposed by the proposed amendment to the law are not simply introduced, but allow some minimum standards for the application of changes. Changes, whose core word was autonomy - both teachers and school - bring much or little as we want to watch. However, we fear that so much honorable, promised and foretold autonomy will be even less than the chrysanthemum on a beggar's skirt if it happens that on all the evidence that has so far flown to the teacher's work in the debate, the ministry will remain silent and agree that teachers have worked bureaucraticly, templateically, poorly, non-innovatively. It would be good if we counted on this amendment and the amendment that the law itself would not deal with the teaching that has been done so far, and that it would not change the way it works. If that happens, then there will certainly be no such promised autonomy. We believe that the public primary school is a value that we should respect and care for and with small, thoughtful, professionally justified and, above all, consensus decisions to ensure that all, regardless of the place of education, regardless of the size of the school and the staff, at least in the baseline, have equal conditions and thus have equal opportunities for quality education. As we say, we will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much. On behalf of the House of Representatives, Mrs. Uhanov, and then Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. In New Slovenia, we will not support this amendment precisely because we are convinced that teachers did not do bad, were not bureaucrats, did not work in template, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u188	I'm just asking for a little more peace, and we'll finish the session. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u189	But that they're capable, that they're expertly qualified and that they're handing out for children. [[...]] It is therefore right that they decide for themselves at their schools, which form is also suitable for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u191	On behalf of the Group of Members. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We propose to try to think before deciding on this simple matter supplement. For we will decide on the law later, and now we decide in this supplement on this, I will give you an example, I hold in my hands the rule of law that we speak of. The process for the formation of groups ran according to this rule, it had to run quite far this school year and now it is coming to an end. Article 7 of the Regulation, which we delete if we do not accept our supplement, says: "The school, on the basis of students' decisions on levels of difficulty in the last week of instruction in the 7th grade, shall form a study group to carry out the level of instruction in the 8th grade. to the class." Speak for those who choose to do so. You'll also need some basis under your marriage for something like that. When it was decided when they wrote the article, what to delete, they deleted something too. We say nothing but that such an article - and a few others - remains in force until the end of this school year. Now we are not talking about whether you are going to change the status of level learning or not, but whether you are going to execute the procedures that started this school year to the end in accordance with the rules or not. That is all we are going to vote on and we propose that this be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes to 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] Which means the amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. That is why we are moving immediately to the third reading of the bill. And since it was not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not notified me of any non-compliance. We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 69 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 28. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 28.]] Which means the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 10th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for an economic chamber law. On Wednesday, 24 May this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been made to the draft law on third reading and no amendments have been tabled, and therefore I inform you, under Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, that the legislative and legal service or the government has not notified me of any non-compliance and we will vote on the law as a whole. We're voting. Excuse me, Master Squeakle, I presume on behalf of the delegation. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! On my behalf, I will explain the position on the Economic Chambers Act. I myself will oppose the adoption of the Law on Economic Chambers, because after you were not prepared yesterday to adopt an amendment to ensure representativeness, I do not think that this is the law on economic chambers, but it is the law on the abolition of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Instead of asking the Minister of Economy who has already left us in the Chamber of Commerce for his partner in representing the interests of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia and in the international implementation of the Republic of Slovenia, we will today end the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and get 20, 30, or, I don't know, how many mini chambers of commerce. This means that Mr Janša's government in particular facilitates economic social dialogue. Unfortunately, the Slovenian economy will be less able to support the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. I do not imagine that in Belgrade we will no longer have one club of Slovenian businessmen, but as many clubs of Slovenian businessmen as we will have chambers of commerce in Slovenia. And these will be around 20 to 30 after the current rule of law. I'll object to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u194	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 22. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the last item of today's meeting, to the continuation of the 12th item of the agenda - thirdly, we are considering the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Law. On Wednesday, 24 May 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the supplementary proposal and since it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, we can proceed to a legislative decision in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 160 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body. Mag. Spending wants to explain the voice. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u195	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not support the media law. In the first reading, we announced that we would not oppose the law if, in the second reading, there would be a hearing for amendments and amendments proposed by experts from non-governmental institutions, non-governmental organisations invited to participate in the drafting of the law, but the core of their comments on the law, on the content, on the rest of them not accepted. In both the second reading of the working body and the second reading of the plenary session of the National Assembly, we reiterated our attempt to introduce those changes, which would nevertheless improve the legal text in relation to at least two key problems that have arisen in public debates and debates, this is in particular the issue of the abandoned fund and instead of the introduced funding from the budget as well as the correction. However, the subject of pornography has proved to be equally problematic. The attempt to introduce an understanding of the term "pluralisation" as understood by experts across Europe and, as defined in rare places, has failed with us. Proponents of this law appear to be pluralisation only as a balanced political representation of different interests, without telling them who he will be and how he will weigh the degree to which the media space is balanced in his messages. We believe that pluralisation is a much broader term, which also introduces the diversity of media and media content, and which also requires very precise criteria for the distribution of public funds. This coalition has not accepted it, we cannot support such a law, we cannot support it, we cannot support it, we cannot support it, we have the same inadvertentity, or we have too little imagination, solutions that deal with correction and pornography. That's why we won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The vote also wishes to explain the mag on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. First of all, on behalf of the SDS, I would like to express our satisfaction that by adopting the Media Act, we will take a step towards the elimination of that democratic deficit, which is that the lack of plurality of the Slovenian media, to which, even last year, we have been alerted by the Foreign Ministry of the United States of America in its report on the state of human rights in Slovenia. The additional reason for voting for the new law is significantly better protection of children and minors against harmful content, as provided for in the current regulation. In view of the pursuit that has been in progress in recent days in this regard, I should like to draw attention to the following. All the provisions of the law in this regard, and in particular Article 84 thereof, were adopted in full agreement at the meeting of the Committee. In all the discussions of all members, it is not possible for the Committee to find one single, single, single sentence for the very malicious interpretations of this article, which we have witnessed in recent days in public debates. This can be checked by anyone, as the magnetograms of this session are available on the Internet. All the additions, as I pointed out, were accepted. Nine votes for and no one, no one, against. So it's in perfect agreement. Most of the talk was about that sentence, "whoever." To make it clear why everything that was proposed could not be taken into account in such a form, I will read a sentence from the original letter from the Peace Institute, which now troubles the article in order to make it clear why it was not possible to include it in the text of the law in this form. I quote: "Television programs must not broadcast pornography and excessive violence that could seriously harm the mental, moral or physical development of children and minors." It is probably clear to everyone that the sentence, which is verbally, legally and substantively completely wrong, cannot actually be included in the legal text. On this basis, the LDS has drafted an amendment and we have agreed to take it together in the text of Article 84, which has now been supplemented. In doing so, I would like to point out that the provisions laid down in the European Directive are significantly better implemented in the new law and that protection is significantly better. Let me just mention that for the first time in the text you will find an explicit ban on children or minors having the opportunity to view or even buy harmful content for them. This, of course, means a completely different approach, as regulated by the law in force, which once had to be corrected, by some mandatory explanation of views. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of the new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you. I'll vote against it here. Although I don't give much credit to the U.S. Foreign Ministry, we've read it exactly, and the message is the opposite of who's trying to show it. It is the State Department that reminds us that this law, like the law on RTV, is part of the action that reduces media space and media freedom. Finally, he urged us not to vote in favour of this law and the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the President of the Republic has spoken to the public, I would like to express the views of Nova Slovenije. We will vote in favour of this law today, perhaps Article 84 is not ideal and would have written it differently in New Slovenia or if we had decided to do so. But we did, and that's what I have to say, but we've agreed to an offer made by the Peace Institute. If this is wrong or right, the Peace Institute somehow reports that it is wrong. We'll see if that's true. However, this 84th article is much better written than the adopted authentic interpretation of a similar article in the previous law, under which excessive sexual violence or, if you will, so-called pornography is equivalent to pathological excesses in this area, which from our point of view was unacceptable at that time and is unacceptable today. And if we did not adopt this law today, we would therefore agree that this authentic interpretation or the concept of sexual violence remains in force. There is no way we can agree on this. As far as the formulation of the pluralisation fund is concerned, we have been working together with the SDS as the opposition, even now with this law, and this is a very good solution, according to our assessment. The right to correction is also a good solution. Both of these issues have triggered a lot of publicity, a lot of attention, I think they have been unnecessarily politicized, because the law is much better in this segment than the law has been in force so far. That is why we will vote for the law today, and as I said, we will see what time will bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u202	Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u203	On our behalf. In the parliamentary group, we agree with the strict regulation of ownership shares. After all, we agreed with this years ago when we wrote this, we agree with attempts to resolve the status of programmes of particular importance, although we fear that this issue will still be open to the EU institutions, but this solution is positive. We agree with the solutions to development and time, especially at the point of digitisation. But what we disagree with is too much to support. We do not agree that this law understands the media as a tool of policy, but not as the right of citizens and citizens to general information, so not just views from positions and opposition. Yesterday's opinions that in the opposition we can be happy about this law, if we get a law that will benefit the opposition, indicate a completely wrong behavior, what journalism and the media are and what the constitution says about freedom of speech. Policy is the one that must ensure that in no case does it affect how policies are written and reported. That is what State support will be all about. We do not agree with the excessive regulation of the amendment, and we regret that there has been inconsistent follow-up to the European rules on pornography and the most violent content of the worst kind in voting for the adoption of this law as soon as possible, and doubts should be resolved at this point. We do not agree that the third parliamentary programme will be left without a responsible editor in the full sense of the word. But could we expect anything else after the parliamentary transmissions have been incorrectly anchored in the National Assembly? We do not agree with the way in which the Council is appointed for broadcasting, which is equally political as the way in which the RTV Slovenia Programme Council is appointed and does not follow the logic of the majority in the National Assembly, but not the indirect power of competent professional institutions. One more thing. Disagreement, but I have summarized the key comments on this law, which is why the LDS Group will be identified against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll back the law myself. I am surprised by all this orchestrated opposition to this law, which is completely good and much better than the previous law. In these months, there has been a lot of talk about correction. Colleagues and colleagues, don't be afraid of correction. I haven't had a lot of corrections in my press career, but since I've been in politics, I haven't written one. Unfortunately, there is really no media in Slovenia today to cultivate a special attitude towards correction. Here I would mention the newspaper "Washinton Post", which has been monitoring and analysing the repairs that appear in this newspaper since 2004. So last year, Washington Post published 1,322 corrections, which is about 110 per month, and nobody in the world hopes to claim that Washington Post is a bad newspaper, that it is unprofessional, and on the most prestigious, it publishes corrections on the opinions. There were 26 of them last year. And two more explanations. We also gain credibility by publishing corrections and, of course, by analysing them. As he analyzes them, he can also identify where faults occur in the journalistic work and correct them from the outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-General. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this law for a simple reason because it is significantly better than the previous one. That's one explanation. Secondly, I thank him once again for coming quickly and that he will finally solve these local, regional media of particular importance, which need State aid, so that the media that are important for the population there can function, for the people who live there, and I believe that from this fund, which will be collected here, these media of local and regional importance, whether television or radio, can work further. Here was actually given this word, and in this I see one positive step in the development of these media. And secondly, the right to correction is certainly an important novelty. I think that these two arguments are more than enough to make the law significantly better than the previous one. In the previous, this has not been the case, and finally there will be success and opportunity for those media that today have not even received a tolar from this title, and today they will probably be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I reiterate my invitation to explain the voice of Minister Grimes, this time on my behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you. I'll just keep going. See, in the light of the previous debate, all of us in the Committee had the same objective, which also obliges the National Assembly to follow a European directive, which is applicable independently of our legislation, and which requires the adoption of the most effective means to implement this Directive, that is, the tools. With full responsibility, I say, and I hope that you will accurately quote me that all those who really care about the protection of children and minors should call for the early adoption and enforcement of this new law without fighting to preserve the situation so far, which in practice has proved to be very weak, which you can be sure of if you walk to the first kiosk exhibition down the road there, that I am not even talking about everything else. Because it's all about showing different concepts again, that's all. I emphasised the text in those first two paragraphs, because the applicants in the Peace Institute of the basic text of the sentence did not form such a text correctly and legally correct, so that we agreed on the basis of the LDS amendment, in agreement with them, as proponents, in order to avoid any malicious interpretations. All of this is very clear from the committee's magnetogram. I would therefore stress once again that if those who are now protesting really had something to do with the protection of children and minors, we would call for the immediate adoption and full implementation of all the provisions of the law that we are deciding today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you. In her own name, also the Master of Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you. I would like to speak again to say that I will not support this law, that my disagreement with this law would not be drowned in most votes for, because that is how some interpret the coalition acceptance of the amendments, if everything was adopted unanimously without the one who says so telling how many were those who voted and how many were not voted on or abstained. So much for consent. With regard to Article 84 and the correction of the Committee's proposal, I have called for a reconsideration and a time to consider the plenary session in order to draw up such a text as would be correct, but I will not say the vocabulary, the content and the law, as some like to say, but we have "touched" it on that committee tired after a multi-year debate that it is as it is. And for that, full responsibility must be taken. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. I am in favour of the correction, as dealt with or defined in the current law, to the law in force, because it has been carefully considered. What has now come into this enlarged text of the amendment is so widespread in some places that the question of whether this extension will also be feasible. It's supposed to be a better marriage, but it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Please just let them give their opinion in peace. My word, Master Žnidaršič. I'm just asking if it's on behalf of the delegation or in its own?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u213	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that the law that has gone through all stages will certainly be adopted. We are not entirely satisfied with him and will not therefore oppose him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-26-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 64 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] This means that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and ask you only for one more minute of hearing, because I have one announcement. Immediately after the meeting, at 3 p.m. in room 212, a meeting of the Committee on the Environment will be held to discuss the call for an extraordinary meeting, which will be held on Monday at 10 a.m. I hereby adjourn the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, at 9 a.m. I wish you a quiet and wonderful weekend. Thank you very much.
