ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlich, Joseph Bajc, Mag. Milan Cvikl, Ljubo Germič, Ivan Jelen, Victory Jelinčič Nobility, Jožef Jerovšek, Franz Kangler, Darja Lavtišar Bebler, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Miro Petek, Maria Possonec and Jakob Preseknik. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members and honourable Members! Terrorist attacks and activities, which constitute a serious attack on the common goals and values of democracy, freedom and human dignity, require individual countries and the international community to respond appropriately by ensuring peace and security in each country and international community and respect for human rights. One of the most important bodies involved in counter-terrorism activities in the Republic of Slovenia is the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. The Agency has an extremely limited set of tools to deal with the threat of terrorism or to participate in the actions of the European Union and NATO against terrorism. Most members of the European Union are under pressure from direct or direct terrorist threats to increase the scope of possible incursions by state authorities into the privacy of individuals. If the Republic of Slovenia actually wants to participate in a joint fight against terrorism, it is the proposaler's view that the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act should be amended so as to ensure, in the field of the use of specific forms of data acquisition, a regime comparable to those in other countries that jointly engage in the fight against terrorism as a global phenomenon. The proposed amendment is therefore a law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, which amends the current regime for the use of specific forms of data acquisition comparable to other countries in the European Union, by ensuring a uniform standard of security in individual countries and the wider international area. The Agency shall, in the counter-terrorism and counter-intelligence segment of the work, be confronted with an activity carried out by an individual during longer periods of time, with a significant proportion of the time spent in concealing or integrating activities into the environment, liaising with the environment and gaining the confidence of individuals who could be used to obtain data or to join the cooperative network. Securing national interests is vital for the Agency to identify such attempts as soon as possible and to prepare appropriate counter-measures. The time limit on the use of specific forms of data collection for a maximum of six months is a significant failure in the work of the Agency in the anti-intelligence and counter-terrorist field. Usually, control to the extent currently permitted allows for a basic view in the communication of these persons, quality knowledge and the possibility of adopting certain conclusions, but from a professional point of view it is strongly too short to effectively prevent such activities and makes it impossible for the Agency to gain a deeper understanding of the methodology of the functioning of individuals or of the comprehensive knowledge of the links and networks of persons with whom an individual is involved. However, the amendment of the applicable provisions of the Slovenian-Intelligence Security Agency Act is also necessary for other legitimate factual reasons which are characteristic of the counter-terrorism and counter-intelligence segment and relate to the methods of work of the intelligence security agencies. In view of the above, the Government is proposing to the National Assembly the adoption of a proposal for a new law in the Slovenian-Intelligence Security Agency. The proposed amendments to the proposals were aimed. First time. Allow the Agency to use specific forms of data retrieval over a longer period of time in the law than on the applicable legal basis, leaving the Agency with only the proposer of measures. Amendments to the provisions of the SGEI Act do not increase the Agency’s competence as the Agency has already implemented specific forms of data acquisition. The only difference between the legislation in force is that the applicant is therefore the Agency, only the legal possibility given to propose the application of a specific form after six months and each individual case is decided by the court. Another time. The amendment of the extension method by extending the measure for one month shall be replaced by an extension of up to a maximum of three months. From the point of view of the performance of the Agency's tasks, the current arrangements are flawed, since in practice this means that the Agency, as a proposer of the measure, must begin to prepare a new extension proposal no later than 14 days after the approval of the renewal, if it wishes to implement a specific form without interruption. Third time. The delegation of power to the President of the District Court of Justice, as one of the Presidents of 65 courts in the Republic of Slovenia, to the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the Court, which is the highest court in the country under 127th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and represents the Supreme Branch of the Judiciary. Unlike the other Presidents, the President of the Supreme Court is appointed by the National Assembly, which is the legislative branch of the Authority, because of the importance of its function. The President of the Supreme Court is the only President of the Courts, who has been elected twice in the National Assembly. The President of the Supreme Court should assess, on a proposal from the Government, whether it is a continuation of an action against the same person or a new intervention, whether the justified reasons for determining the infringement have been given. When deciding on the determination of an infringement, it shall be bound by the Constitution and the law, in particular by the constitutional principle of proportionality, which is also contained in the legal reservation referred to in Article 37(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and is further implemented in detail and in accordance with the Constitution in Article 24 of the Law on the Soviet Union and the proposed amendment to the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Although the proposal for a law proposed by the Government has been supported by the Council of State, the text of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has not been opposed by the legal and legislative service in its opinion, the proposal for a law in the further legislative procedure before the home labour body, the committee for the supervision of intelligence and security services, has been almost entirely amended or supplemented. Instead of extending for a maximum of 3 months without an absolute deadline of the measure, the proposal is supplemented by an extension every time for a period of three months, with the application of specific forms of data collection mentioned at the end of the 12-month period. Following the amended proposal for a measure law, the President of the District Court shall decide in the area in which the Agency is established, i.e. in Ljubljana, which shall be the same as the rules in force. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the text of the amended proposal for a law adopted by the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission on 10 May 2006 is flawed as it does not allow for all its circumstances to be taken into account in a particular case. The Agency shall not allow data collection by means of specific forms over a period of one year or a longer period of time, even where an intervention in an individual's right to privacy would be justified or necessary, appropriate and proportionate for the sake of the security of the State. However, it does not give the Court the opportunity to extend control for a period shorter than three months, but somehow imposes an extension of three months provided that the justified reasons are given. At the same time, the Commission did not take advantage of the possibility that the amendment of the Act would separate interventions into the individual's right to privacy under Article 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the sake of the security of the State or the protection of the constitutional system of the Republic of Slovenia from the imposition of the same measures, the imposition or conduct of criminal proceedings, or that the decision of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the use of specific forms of data against legal interference in the individual's rights would be decided by the President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendment tabled on 16 May 2006 by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party Group and the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was treated by the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission as a parent labour force. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Davorin Terchón, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u4	Honourable Presidents, government representatives, representatives of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its 13th meeting, on 10 May 2006, the Commission considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, submitted by the Government following a reduced procedure. The Commission took note of the opinion of the Council of State, the Council of Justice, the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and equal opportunities and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. A representative of the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency, Director and Deputy, as well as a representative of the Ministry of Justice, participated in the discussion by the Government. The Commission was also co-chaired by the President of the Commission on Petitions and Equal Opportunities and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. In addition to the introductory explanation of the articles, Mr Podbregar, Director of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, presented the reasons for the amendment of the Law on CoEs on behalf of the applicants. The main cause is the effective fight against terrorism and international crime. In the last year, a special group working within the EU to combat terrorism reviewed the readiness of all actors involved in this area and took note of the powers, instruments, activities and assessments available to the services involved in preventing terrorism. From this point of view, Slovenia was proposed to examine the legal order relating to specific forms of data acquisition, in particular in the area of monitoring electronic communications. The Agency’s powers now in this area reduce its ability to collect intelligence. This also raises the question whether the reason for these changes is the increased level of risk of the Republic of Slovenia. At the moment the level of risk in the Republic of Slovenia is not increased. This means that the amendment of the provisions of that proposal does not increase the Agency's powers. Special forms of data collection have been carried out by the Agency so far. A change in the deadline is not to be understood as an increase in jurisdiction, but merely as a situation in which certain legal powers can already be exercised if necessary. The proposal under consideration concerns three key amendments: to change the duration of the use of specific forms of data collection, to extend them, as it extends from one month to three months, implementation has been extended for a maximum period of one month; to change the duration of the current regime provides that the implementation of such specific form may take up to six months; to change the competence to determine the use of specific forms of data collection. The current law gives this power to the President of the District Court, appointed by the office of the Agency, and is now transferred to the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate on individual articles or proposals for amendments to the Commission, the Members of the Commission presented each of their views on individual articles and on the proposal for amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the draft law. We are aware that in order to effectively obtain data on the common fight against terrorism and international crime, that law needs to be amended, in particular in order to allow for the supervision and recording of telecommunications for a longer period from now on to be valid. However, the possibility of such incursions on the part of public authorities must be limited to the privacy of the individual. Otherwise, there would be a violation of Article 37 of the Constitution, since an intervention in the confidentiality of letters and other communities could only be extended for a certain period of time, but not indefinitely. The majority of the members of the Commission agreed with the proposal that the control of letters and other shipments and the monitoring and recording of telecommunications be extended every three months, but not more than one year in total. It was also suggested that this deadline could be longer than one year, but it must be limited in time. Finally, it was decided that the most appropriate absolute period was 12 months. Some members of the Commission support the solution to move the decision to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the use of specific forms of data collection from the current district court. According to the applicant, the President of the Supreme Court is the most competent person since he appoints or elects a national assembly. The President of the Supreme Court is the only judge who has been confirmed twice or elected twice in the National Assembly and therefore it would be difficult to establish an even higher marriage for the legality and legitimacy of interference with such a sensitive human right. However, most members of the Commission do not agree with this proposal or the proposal to transfer the powers so far from the President of the District Court to the President of the Supreme Court, since this would also prevent legal protection against the decision of the Court. We therefore propose that this authority remain with the President of the District Court, where the Agency is established. In this regard, the opinion was expressed that the powers to determine the use of specific forms of data collection are not part of the work and tasks of the Supreme Court, and therefore the extension of the use of these forms does not fall within the competence of the Supreme Judges. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the proposals for amendments to the Commission submitted by the Group of Members, members of the Commission, Dušan Kumer, Rudolf Mogue, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti and Davorin Terčon, the Commission adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As shown in the Communication, the Commission, by amendment to Article 1, has made it possible for the Agency to implement specific forms of data collection that may last for a maximum period of three months, for justified reasons, to extend its application for a period of three months but not more than 12 months in total. Any extension shall be approved by the President of the District Court. The Commission adopted those amendments by a majority of votes. In accordance with the third subparagraph of Article 128(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Commission brought together a debate and a vote on all the articles of the draft law together and adopted all the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have received the updated proposal as an integral part of the reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u6	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Honourable Director with Fellow Member, Honourable Member and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! We have before us a proposal for a law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, which we have adopted on the home working body. In its original form, the draft law provided for an unlimited total duration, the use of specific forms of data acquisition, namely the exercise of control and recording of telecommunications over a longer period, which we also find controversial in the LDS Member Club in the light of Article 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees the so-called right to the communication privacy of an individual. We therefore support the amended proposal for a law which has limited this intervention to constitutional rights by a total duration of not more than one year. According to the LDS Club, the extension of the possible intrusions of public authorities into the privacy of individuals should be limited, as otherwise they would violate Article 37 of the Constitution of Slovenia, since the intervention in the sustainability of letters and other communities can only be extended for a certain period of time, but not indefinitely. With regard to the Director of the Republic of Slovenia's assessment that there is no increased level of risk, we believe that the regulation of the listening measure, as proposed by the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, is appropriate, as the current deadline extends from six months to one year. In the LDS, we also support the decision of the parent working body that only the President of the District Court, where the Agency is established, can control letters and other shipments and control and record telecommunications. The power to grant a measure is not to be transferred to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, especially to its President, since this precludes legal protection against the decision of the court, since more laws allow the person listening to it to be informed of the control. One such rule is, for example, the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, which provides in Article 33 that the Commission may inform the individual after having exercised control over the use of specific forms of data collection, but only if it finds that it was illegal control. Where such an individual may complain if the measure itself and its approval are decided by the highest court in the Republic of Slovenia or if it decides, as they say in Sova, the highest marriage of the legality of such a decision. In the LDS, we are also aware of the amendments tabled by the ruling coalition to the amended bill, and I would like to add that we will not support these amendments in the parliamentary club. For the first time, if an intelligence agency with new equipment is complete with new people, it is also materially well-maintained that I do not say that it lives in a Watt, it does not have the ability to make significant movements in a year of listening to certain individuals, and it takes an unlimited time or two years for this measure, as an amendment by coalition parties, a person may be concerned about the quality of such a service. Secondly, if the power to approve a measure from the President of the District Court is transferred to the President of the Supreme Court or to his deputy, it is not only a threat to legal certainty, but it is also possible to talk about more than the apparent degradation of the District Court, since no assessment given to us by the Sova employees on the Commission shows that the work in this area by the District Court or its President has been poorly done to run into any problems or similar. It will now happen because this commission is led by the opposition, that it is likely that, more than ever, if the law is passed with this amendment, there will be a confrontation between the Commission and the President of the Supreme Court, who is the only one who will decide on it, no one else is above it, and therefore such a decision can also lead to the Commission being able to abuse itself instead of national security for political purposes. The seat of the President of the Supreme Court is such an exposed city that it can also be done on the other side of the authority currently in office. Otherwise, I would end up giving an assessment of the contents of the original law with the thought: He knows enough who knows nothing, only if he can keep quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u7	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear government representatives, representatives of the Soviet Union. The announced enhanced powers of the Soviet Union and, as it is heard, the Slovenian police are looking forward to something similar, with special secret methods of action for the control of citizens, falling within the so-called area of official security exaggeration. And since the work of the intelligence and security services is objectively eluded to the public, it is better for such proposals to be weighed more than to be adopted after the inertia of the parliamentary majority. Therefore, it is not possible to accept the applicant's assessment that in this case there are fewer difficult amendments to the law. It's the opposite, it's one of the worst human rights interventions. It is therefore of particular importance that Parliament, as a legislative body, should do so with consideration and on the basis of strong arguments, through the legal granting of the right to the right of an NGO to intervene in the area of personal rights which are constitutionally protected. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that a concrete proposal, which means the timeless use of specific forms of data collection, is not sufficiently thought out and weighed and therefore we do not support it. All together, and especially the proposer, is called the Justice Ministry, we should think more about how important it is to our personal security, the security of our neighbours and society in full protection of information privacy. The immeasurable power of a large brother - an eavesdropper and data collectors on citizens, their privacy and matters of a public character - also offers virtually unlimited opportunities for the worst violations of the law and the abuse of rights. Therefore, any extension of these powers by law is worth repeated serious consideration. Therefore, all praise to the writers of the Slovenian Constitution, who, in the 1990s, have obviously thought more carefully than the proposer today and have incorporated in the Constitution a very clear safeguard to issue the order to the court and, more importantly, issue the order for a certain period of time. Apparently, they were aware that the secret service could not and should not control telecommunications, open mail and more, suspected people until their death, just as it had done in the near past. If the Secret Service has to activate this covert surveillance, then it can only do so for a certain period of time. And that's it. Each different solution, especially for unlimited time, in itself lists and calls for abuse. Also in democracy, there is no shortage of individuals who, by misuse of such low-lying information, blackmail and publicly account with people who are disturbed by their governmental self-dazzle. Slovenia is not immune to this either. Most reverberations in Slovenia were based on such a database and information base and the setting up of these for daily political accounts. In recent days we can track the news that the police in their novel are also preparing covert surveillance of those who are suspected of committing a crime. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we oppose this proposal and support the amendment adopted by the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. Three reasons are for such an attitude or support. The first is that there is no need to strengthen its powers in this area from the previous reports and from the specific operational actions of the Soviet Union. The second is that the applicant himself wrote in his explanation that the material is not linked to the legal order of the European Union in the sense that there would be an obligation on the Member State to adopt certain legal arrangements regarding the status and work of the SOVE. The third fact that the proposal for a novel which provides for eavesdropping is contrary to Article 37 of the Constitution, which stipulates that such an intervention is only possible for a certain period of time. There are therefore sufficient arguments to reject such a proposal. Finally, a sentence on the coalition's proposal. If, first of all, the applicant, together with the Soviet Union, with the support of the coalition, obviously, coalition parties, has come up with a proposal for unlimited monitoring and secret wiretap, and comes later when the opposition comes forward, with limited support, of course, something does not "account" here and it would be good for you to clear up and come up with strong and reasoned proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u9	Mr Capuder has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members. The national security of Slovenia is based on the values of democracy and respect for human rights, which have also been managed by the SOVA agencies and which have firmly anchored our country in the European communities of countries. In doing so, the SOVA holds an important position in the national security system of our countries and is an extremely important component of it. The position of the Soviet Union is being strengthened in particular and also by taking on an international role. Such an information and security system as we know it today certainly does not have all the qualities that are characteristic of countries with long democratic history and positive practices in this area. In New Slovenia we are convinced that the environment and conditions of operation of the Agency are not yet stable, especially since the information and security system has not yet been fully upgraded in our opinion. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the right to privacy. Some of these rights are: the right to individual communication privacy, the right to inviolability of housing and the right to information privacy. Without these rights, it is not possible to talk about democratic society, freedom and personal autonomy of individuals. However, not all these rights may be absolute, but under Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, human rights and fundamental freedoms may be restricted only by the rights of others and in cases provided for by the Constitution in its Article 37, where it is stipulated that, in addition to the protection of the right to communication privacy, there is also a legal reservation and provides for the restriction of that right. The same Article also lays down the conditions for restricting the right to communication privacy. On the basis of the Constitution, only the law may provide that, on the basis of a decision of the Court for a certain period of time, the protection of the confidentiality of letters and other communications and the inviolability of human privacy shall not be taken into account, provided that this is necessary for the introduction or conduct of a criminal procedure or the security of the State. The reasons for interfering with the individual’s communication privacy are set out in the law. But an intervention can only be allowed if there is a danger to the security of the state, that is, all of us. In weighing the safety of all and interfering with the privacy of the individual, I am sure that he must weigh the safety of all. It is for this reason that effective control of all services which are allowed to take a look at the privacy of the individual, particularly in order to safeguard the interests of the community. The Agency’s control system is a continuous process that is changing and upgrading and must ensure effective control on the one hand and, on the other hand, must not significantly reduce the Agency’s effectiveness. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that changes to the law on SCI are following the events that we are witnessing in the current globalised world when the world has become a little larger, and the flow of both crime and international terrorism is increasing. In view of the comparative review, the proposed changes are also comparable to those in other European countries where in the vast majority of countries there is no ceiling on the use of specific forms of data collection. That is why the government has decided to propose a solution to the National Assembly to examine and consider any intervention by the Agency in private and any extension of that intervention within a period of three months by the President of the Supreme Court. So not for some indeterminate time. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the solutions provided for in the law before it was amended by the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Board. As a result, the members of the coalition have also tabled supplements that return the law to its original but slightly modified form, and we will also support it as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u11	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much and very much. When we talk about intelligence and security services, we usually associate this with some values. Above all, it is the values of national national security; it is the values of other economic political and other security. And that's some fact, this connection, that we're sometimes also benevolent to when we think values are at risk. Benevolent to sharpen this area. In this case, which we are talking about today, it seems to us in the DeSUS Group that this is the case. In addition, our acceptability to sharpen is probably slightly higher because we have witnessed many tragic events in the past months and years, either on 9/11 or Madrid, or that it is a tourist resort where bombs are being bombed, etc. International crime, criminal associations, terrorist efforts are more threatening from day to day. These groups that do this are significantly more sophisticated than they were years ago, have a better organisation, have a lot of economic and financial power and, therefore, the threats to our security are slightly greater. In particular, our attention is sharpened when it comes to national security, even when it comes to threatening coups or preparing attacks, strikes. The proposaler, therefore, considers that we are not sufficiently effective in preventing this and that some things need to be changed, particularly in the field of regulation, which would allow for interference with communication privacy. It is primarily about extending the monitoring competence of either telephone calls or any other communication and justifying the proposaler that the time limit set so far is, therefore, a maximum of six months, too short for these services to be effective. And if they're not effective, then our threat, so follows logic, is so much bigger. It is true that all these interventions are limited by certain conditions that do not need to be re-listed. In any case, it is probably a conflict between our right and our desire to protect our privacy and the general interests of protecting national and other security. The proposer notes that the appropriate time when specific measures should be used to obtain results for 24 months should be proposed by amendments, which is four times the number currently allowed. In the DeSUS Group, we also consider that it would be acceptable and suitable for a shorter period, but if that is the only reason and if this amendment, which speaks of 24 months, is adopted, we do not intend to oppose the adoption of this law. We will therefore support the amendments, we will also support the law, in the hope that this will mean greater security in particular, and that this does not mean increasing the possibility of abuse, or at least there will be no more of these abuses, because there will be opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u13	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government and the agency, colleagues and colleagues! The Owl Act was passed in 1999, when we somehow first identified the operation and its tasks to an extent comparable to other democracies. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the right to individual communication privacy, as well as information privacy, and they are both part of the general right to privacy, without which there is no democratic society. However, in particular circumstances, the right to privacy is not absolute. Under the Constitution, human rights and fundamental freedoms may be restricted only to the rights of others and to cases provided for in the Constitution. The Constitution also contains a legal reservation and provides for the restriction of this right. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia lays down the conditions for restricting the right to privacy by law. This law is the Law on Owl, which specifies exactly how this can happen, and also identifies the time component. The use of specific forms of data acquisition is permitted, on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, by written order, by the President of the District Court - as is now - whose area is the seat of the Agency, especially in case of any particular case where there is a danger to the security of the State. In doing so, it can reasonably be concluded that data cannot be obtained in any other way or otherwise could endanger human life and health. In particular, the existence of a threat to the security of the State is reflected in secret activities, plans and preparations for the implementation of international terrorist actions against the Republic of Slovenia and other violent acts against the State, both in the country itself or abroad, in preparation for the armed attack on the Republic of Slovenia and in international organised criminal activities, which has been particularly widespread recently, could briefly be said when it comes to more serious forms of danger for the country. Sova is active in anti-terrorism activities in the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, there is a narrow range of possibilities that can be faced with threats of terrorism, and it must be a key part of the European Union's joint action and NATO's alliance against terrorism. If our country really wants to be effective, it must participate in a joint fight against terrorism, it must also adapt legislation, which in this case is the Law on Owl. This, in particular, means the area of longer-term control. To the extent that controls are currently permitted, they are clearly too short to effectively prevent such activities, and the Agency is prevented from learning more about the methodology of individual activities or the comprehensive knowledge of connections, networks of individuals with whom individuals are involved. The basic principles covered by the law are from 1999. At this time, events have taken place since 1999 that require changes to effectively combat international criminal associations and, above all, terrorism. The aim of the proposed amendments is to enable the Agency to use specific forms of data collection for a longer period of time, provided that there is a high likelihood, for justified reasons, that an individual will carry out such activities over a longer period of time. We also have security guards here, and due to these changes, it is also necessary to adjust the competence to determine the use of specific forms of data retrieval. The draft law confers upon the President of the District Court, in which the Agency is established, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia or in his absence as Vice-President of the Supreme Court. The opinion is that the granting of interventions to the individual's right of privacy for the security of the State or the protection of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia should be separated from the granting of the same measures for the introduction and conduct of the criminal procedure, and it is therefore appropriate that it interferes with the right to privacy for the security of the State or the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia by the President of the Supreme Court. In the SDS, we believe that it is necessary to make such a change for the security of the State and for the citizens as well, but we support the amendments that the monitoring activity can be carried out for a maximum of two years, an extension after three months, and that is why we will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.5.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. The debate we had on the working body will take place again and again in the national assembly due to the persistence of the position. I think that the part that limits it to two years is a little extended, I don't think I'm going to go into it, I'm certainly not excited about such a long time, but it's not necessarily about the consistency of the law. However, the fact that they have taken the opportunity to have these measures approved by the President of the Supreme Court seems to me to be a little bit more and perhaps a little bit more in my logic confused with a healthy legal order. I think and respect according to the profession, I am a mathematician myself, but I am not a lawyer, I respect the opinion given by the judicial council in which the most eminent lawyers are elected, and in the opinion of the Council of Justice, in the second indent, the competence to determine the use of special forms of data collection does not belong to the powers of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We talked a lot about this on the committee, but the excuses were as follows, as there is still one indent of Article 106 of the Law on Courts, which says that the Supreme Court is competent to carry out other matters laid down by law. What marriage, what marriage, every marriage? There was no answer to that. However, what is worse, respected colleagues and colleagues, is the following - in the Law on the Courts 101. Article 101 states that the District Courts are competent for the first time in criminal matters and for the third time and so forth, and at the end of what the District Courts are responsible for, it says, "proposals for allowing control of the telephone, other communication means and municipalities, and for controlling letters and other shipments shall be decided by the President of the District Court, in whose territory the proposer is established or in his absence by the Vice-President." I do not think that the SOI law is "lex specialis" in the field of the judiciary, but in the field of the judiciary, it is the Supreme Law. If, in my view, the Minister of Justice, who still respects the rule of law, gave such an interpretation of the law, this indent may be deleted in the transitional and final provisions and may be entered in this Supreme Court Act by a new paragraph of Article 106. This situation seemed legally clear to me, but it seems to me that because of the judicial council I respect, and I think it has its weight, I cannot support such an amendment. Far from that, my first point is that this thing is not in line with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, this thing also seems completely distasteful, because we do not only have the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Service, but we also have the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, we also have the criminal police, we all care about certain information, we all care about certain matters in the field of security. And if you look at it, it tells you, so these measures that I've been talking about, getting special methods and means, say that the measures in paragraphs 150 and 151 of this Act, by written order, are ordered by the investigating judge on a written proposal from the public prosecutor. It is, of course, a predictive procedure and then a continuation of this procedure. So, for the police, it's a good county court, but not there. Maybe some president of the district court, if you paraphrased a little bit, which is called a "leap", maybe it's not good for a certain political suit, and let's avoid it and move on. Another such argument made by the State Council was their main point, saying: "The issue of the evidentiary validity of information obtained by the Soviet Union in criminal proceedings is raised." And here I am saying that certain information, as you know, is being channelled. If certain information collected as intelligence is indicative of a crime, such information shall then be withdrawn from the criminal police or the police to investigate this crime, where terrorism certainly belongs. What will we do with such data, or with such evidence, if used in criminal proceedings further, if approved by the President of the Supreme Court? I think that we should protect the President of the Supreme Court as someone who represents the summit of the judiciary, so I also think that it is not appropriate for this to be directly linked to the state's intelligence service. Due to this hygiene of political as well as hygiene to the other segments of the intelligence and security activities of you, your respected colleagues and colleagues, please remain with the original amendment. If that is not the case, I will try, as far as the rules of procedure are concerned, to enforce this position, which means that this procedure will be very delayed and that it is not in the interests of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u17	Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment, which practically amends the law, changes the form it took before coming to the committee, to the current regulation in Article 24 which allows for the legal exercise of control of letters and other shipments by the Union and the supervision and recording of telecommunications in the Republic of Slovenia. Following the current arrangements, control of this correspondence and others may be made available to the individual for a maximum period of three months and then extended each month if the reasons for this are given. By limiting this period of control to six months, which means that the Agency is unable to determine by that date what this decision has been given to monitor, it is no longer able to perform its tasks on that individual. As has been shown in practice, the time-limit for the exercise of control over communications or telecommunications represents a significant gap in the work of the Agency in two areas for which it is responsible and for which not only our countries are at risk, but also the wider European community, for which we are also responsible as members. This is an anti-intelligence and counter-terrorism area. Experts themselves find that now a certain period of time allows them only some basic insight into the communication of persons who are duly presumed to be engaged in information or terrorist activities. I think and we can also agree that the technical situation in the field of telecommunications is such that suspects can be very easily concealed, not only for six months, but also for more than six months, and then, in accordance with the current legislation, they can simply do their work further than nothing has been done, because specific methods are not allowed to be applied against the same individual for the same reasons. I am convinced that the Soviets could move on to better quality findings on how they function, and especially on how individuals behave if this deadline were longer. However, since an individual is mostly operating in a well-organised network, the extension of this deadline could also increase the likelihood that only the likelihood of a wider network of co-workers being exposed by disguised measures could be detected. As regards a certain period laid down in Article 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which it is permitted not to respect the confidentiality of letters, the confidentiality of privacy. The proposal for this amendment refers to a three-month extension or determination of this right of hearing or control of letters for a period of three months, as the amendment in Article 3 states: "The use of a specific form of data collection referred to in Article 1 may take up no more than three months. For justified reasons, its use may be extended for a maximum period of 3 months." So it's not like there's any deadline, but every time for three months. But not altogether for more than 24 months. This is now added. Earlier, it was suggested that this deadline is unlimited and, on the other hand, if we look at the solutions in our comparable European countries, I have a list before me, I think that 19 European countries and in the vast majority of countries with old democracy are not at the top when these special methods are allowed to be used. It is always the shortest time, and it is in most countries three, four months, in some countries even six months. I don't think we're going to do anything special about this that they don't know about in us comparable European countries. As for the fact that the President of the Supreme Court is responsible for issuing this permit, I think it is, I will not say that you object, but I think it is the one who has the highest authority that the one is empowered to give such an opinion. After all, he is also the guardian of the Constitution, the guardian of the rule of law. Such a judge or the President of the Supreme Court shall be elected by a majority of all Members in secret elections in the National Assembly to the Presidents of the Courts appointed by the Minister of Justice or the Executive Branch of the Authority. I ask you to support this amendment because I think it is better than the bill adopted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u20	First of all, I must say that there are no valid reasons for exposing in Slovenia the same or the same security regime as in the United States. We do not need any unbridled control of citizens, because those sitting on the report's Security and Intelligence Commission are no valid reasons at all. I also reject the assessment or argument for an amendment made by the coalition, or supported by a government proposal, that the information and security system has not yet been built up and that we are therefore supplementing this law. But listen, we're only complementing one minimum part and that most sensitive part of this law is interference with human rights, and the law, and the mechanisms to build up the security system are still countless, but we've gone to the wrong end in my humble opinion. I'm gonna do it again, just like I did on the board. In this case, it is a typical case of conflict not only of legal standards, but also of social values in particular, whether it is an absolute right to inviolability of individuals of personal rights or, on the other hand, the defence of those same rights against terrorism and any other threat, and that is now on the scale. In my view, the two-year period or unlimited deadline is too long for this method of interference with human rights, it is absolutely too long for a judicial order to interfere with fundamental human rights. Nor is it true that after one year, as proposed by the Commission, this deadline can be completed, there is no possibility of renewal of proposals, but it is necessary to come up with different and more substantial reasons for the extension of this deadline, otherwise it also exists. I think it is a more weighty and more acceptable proposal for the Slovenian situation that we have drawn up in the Commission. This proposal also increases the ceiling by 100 per cent for the imposition of these measures, from six months to one year. But 24 months is, in my opinion, too long.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u21	Mr. Mag. Capuder, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer didn't listen to me very well. I wasn't talking about American democracy, I was talking about old European democracies. Let me tell you what the solutions are. In France, Luxembourg, Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, there are no ceilings everywhere and in most countries the period for which they decide is three months and can be extended without restrictions. However, as far as the reasons for such interventions are concerned, the reasons are not of any kind, but are stated in the law, and I am sure that they apply only when the security of the State is really threatened or when the security of the state is expected to be compromised, i.e. all of us. And I think if we take terrorist danger so easily, then I don't know if we care about the country. I think that's what we've got for this service that thinks it's necessary. They do not do this for their "shells" but assess that this is necessary, and in such a case, they decide and propose to intervene in the privacy of the individual only for the security of the State or for the security of individuals in that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u23	Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u24	I think that the arguments or amendments that we are discussing and trying to bring the law back to about the same form that it came to the committee represent a total denial of the opinion of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Committee, in which all the professional public, the Ministry and Members have been confronted. And I don't think it's right that then, whatever the government is proposing, then the working bodies aren't proposing anything, and we're going to accept it as the government has proposed. This means that we also deny the work of members of the national assembly in this way. And the government always has its back, despite reasonable concerns that something is wrong. Look, there have been no problems in approving these measures so far since 1991. One problem has not been observed by the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission in this area, one not. Or perhaps something is hidden from the Commission and we will have to do something about it on the committee itself, as well as actions, dear fellows, so little, if somehow I repeat it to Mr Director, it seems to me that he has said that there are fewer than ten per year, and if this cannot be justified and if this cannot be obtained, then I also do not know what. No problems in the work of this service have suggested that they should go to heaven with this approval. I also think there is another mistrust, and the Minister of Justice has several problems with the judiciary - we all know this, from wages to appointments - and it probably works as one instance, which says that those who run the present judiciary know nothing. Otherwise, I cannot imagine if the representative of the Ministry of Justice here says that this opinion of the Council of Justice of 5.4.2006, signed by President Marjan Pogačnik, is null and void. I quote him once again, "The competence to determine the use of specific forms of data collection does not fall within the powers of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia." Then all those who write this are, and the entire judiciary then gives, in his opinion, the wrong verdicts to which we can decide, and only the Minister has the exclusive right to say that what they write is not true, and stubbornly insists that it be the President of the Supreme Court. I think, dear fellows and colleagues, here colleague Capuder has already mentioned a little bit that national security is one of the main hearts of this country, and if security is not, we will all feel unhappy and we should work here with our hands in hand. In principle, I would also support, in the extreme sense, that you have extended for another year, that is to say for two more years of these measures, is fine. The argument is not very convincing, but it seems to me that it could be confirmed in the interest of security. And if you would go a little bit to the benefit of not trying to try this security area, which is even more sensitive, to put Stalinism at the level of Stalinism, and forgive the ugly expression, and if you also suggested that the President of the Supreme Court approves it, that it has an even higher instance, certain things would also break our spell, but then in the Law on Judicial Service with transitional and final provisions, certain articles could be deleted or supplemented. If, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is really so much for us to defend ourselves against terrorism, then this government should not put the fight against terrorism only on the pedestal of the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Service, but how else should we give those who are actually fighting them, it is the police. Because terrorism is, we know, a crime. We have all the legislation that governs this area, and then we would tell the police: that's why this court is not good, and let's get these things out there. We should also look at and analyze how it is in the Ministry of Defence's intelligence service, and then in one of these packages, we should communicate these things. But this thing that the government gave unlimited listening time, virtually to death, and that it gave it to the person who, you say, has the highest authority. What is the highest authority? Does every judge under the highest authority then have a lower authority? I don't know why. I know what the President of the Supreme Court represents, and it is precisely because, once again, I stress that he is on this pedestal and that he is always at state events in the first place and everywhere on the top that he is used to judge in cases of intelligence services. It seems to me that by putting this burden on his shoulders, he may be more exposed than he is, and also in a much more questionable situation that he is in so far. And somehow I'd just consider these things to try, if you don't like the county, let's go one step higher, but let the one just at the top do what the law allows him to do, and not "burn" with the intelligence and security activity. Because sooner than later, if he decides to do so, he will be informed exactly about all these things that are happening there, as far as our intelligence and security developments within the country are concerned, and we know that, but I will not talk about it. And so I would ask you, reason and reason in hand, try to find the points of reference in this treatment, because security is the same for all of us who are sitting, whether we are in opposition or position, but especially for the people, and try to find one model that will make us feel that it's good for one, for the other, to make these things better. True, then, we ask ourselves about the actual value of such a service when it is not at all appropriate. When we had the latest report on the security and intelligence services behind closed doors, you yourself, your respected colleagues and colleagues, know what a fish is and who acted like a fish, that he didn't say anything. Nothing, nothing, nothing about terrorism, nothing said, nothing, nothing about everything we suggested. And that we have a Slovenian intelligence and security service where, despite the fact that tons of weapons were transported through Slovenia to trade outside, this intelligence service did not have any information on what was going on here. Then one wonders what such a job does. I do not wish to discredit this service in the eyes of the public, at least as far as the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission is concerned, I must say that we have worked well, more than ever before, that this cooperation has been good and that we have not tried, under the terms of reference, to go into such extremes so that we can then deal with ourselves, not with the job. And for this reason, I would kindly ask you, dear fellows and colleagues, there will probably be something else before us than just another consideration if this is voted on, as it is, that we are trying to reach the final solution in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u25	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Well, it's normal for any change to run into some kind of resistance, but whatever it is, it seems positive or negative, depending on the approach. However, such arrangements as we are now preparing have long been available to other countries, not to mention how many years or decades. However, by 11 September, experiments in other countries where they already have this, what we are preparing, when they wanted to introduce further measures in view of the situation, there were a lot of smart people who opposed it. But then this famous September 11th happened, and all of a sudden, there was a lot to get into marriage. Some thought that Madrid would never happen, but never London, and never Carigrad, never Sharm El Sheikh, not to list all the possibles that happened, but unfortunately that happened. But what is the characteristic of all of these. The characteristic is that at least those who have already been explored, who are already a little bit more distant, that the preparations have been going on for years and that the activities have been around the world. On September 11th, some even entered the university in Germany, and something else, and then gradually came to a place in the United States where, according to the plan they had, they carried out the matter. It never happened, and none of these actions, they packed the suitcases, and then they drove to Madrid, and then they slept pretty good, and the next day they did it all. No, I'm afraid it didn't work out that way. There were a bunch of connections, some contacts, including phone calls, coded or anything else, but the activity took a long time. And this is a sensitive matter, an intervention in privacy, but unfortunately the world is such that without it, it simply does not work. I'm sorry. Nor am I pleased that we need to talk about such things, that we need to adopt legislation on these matters, but that is the way life is, and otherwise it is not. This solution to allow these interventions to take place for three months and then to be extended and an agreement is needed every time, I find it very acceptable in view of what other countries have, what solutions other countries have, and that the limit is then for two years. That seems totally acceptable to me. The other thing is. I would recall because today it was also mentioned that the police are probably preparing something similar, based on the suspicion of something else. I would remind you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that when the Plut case happened, we listened a great deal, and the press conferences were also about how the police and the ministry and the Minister in particular should have done something to prevent this from happening. What's this prevention? Or we could just "dry" someone and lock him up so something wouldn't happen. It just doesn't work that way. It is necessary to have some basis, some information, and then, if there is such a possibility, such suspicion that something like this might happen. What bothers me is I interpret it as some terrible mistrust in the Supreme Court. This is my mistrust that the Supreme Court, the President and the Vice-President of the Supreme Court could not do so or do so. We've also heard how much work they're going to have, or not today, I admit it. When we were preparing this proposal, how much work it would take them, I just don't understand it. On the other hand, what falls within the competence of an authority, and of a court governed by law, each body affected has the right to express its opinion, but the final judgment is yet to be delivered by Parliament because we are the legislative branch of the authority. That's how it was, it should be, it is, and it's probably gonna stay that way for now. In Parliament, we will decide what is some kind of jurisdiction by law. While others have the right to say that this does not suit them, they do not agree that it will be, I don't know, anything, but Parliament is deciding. This is the case all over the world where they have democratic order and where there is a division of power. And it's like this in Slovenia for now. That's probably how it's gonna go. I don't see any serious delusions if we're going to accept that. I'd like to mention one more thing that I've mentioned many times, so I think it's a little boring, but I don't think it's any harm. If we think of any legality that security and freedom are in reverse proportion. If we want to have a great degree of security so that we can walk anywhere, then we have to sacrifice something and vice versa, if we can do anything we want, whatever we love, then we have to count that we are at some certain level of danger, because others can do it too. That's the problem. My security and freedom can also come upon the freedom and security of someone else. That's the way it is, and every right is the rights for as long as they don't run into someone else's rights. These are certain legalities that may sometimes not suit us, nor do I, I admit, but it must be realized that everyone else has the rights that I want to have. I can't go into the rights of others with my rights, so I can have high rights, but I'll cut them off from the other. These are the laws you can't pass. Taking them into account probably makes it easier for us to take measures such as providing security by the State for citizens and providing security for the state itself. After all, as safe as the state is, so are its citizens. And that's one of those cases, and that's what you need to be aware of. That is why I will support this law, as well as the amendments prepared by the coalition parties. Whether I'm happy about this, it's another thing, but if we look at it realistically, it is, and because of this reality, of course, I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am certainly attracted to those who say that regardless of position or opposition, our objective of ensuring security is shared. And I think that the debate on the Commission has gone this way, and that the amendments adopted by the Commission have gone this way. When the proposer proposed amendments to the law, it is necessary to ask why. They are given in the explanatory memorandum. What great internal reasons for changing the law cannot be discerned. In particular, as has been pointed out several times since we are neither in the Commission nor in the National Assembly in the handling of reports, nor in the reports provided by the services, even after 11 September, any major or increased threats by the State of Slovenia. It is true, however, that we are not alone in this world, that security is a common good, and also on the basis of warnings from our colleagues, the partners in our wider association of the European Union have gone in the direction of extending, in particular, the possibility of implementing measures, special forms of data collection, time-consuming. Well, the commission went this way, too. It has adopted an amendment, which stretches over time compared to the current arrangement for another 12 months, which I think is a good time. And, of course, I share my opinion with my colleague Mohet, who said that if there was a coalition of only 24 months in the re-amendment, it would seem excessive to me, but I would not have as many concerns as I do, especially when it comes to the use of the Institute of the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Court which approves these measures. Mr Capuder listed a number of countries that do not have an absolute deadline for these measures. That's true to a great extent, I agree. But at this point it must be said that these countries do not have the same constitution as we do. Article 37 of the Constitution precludes the unlimited possibility of implementing these measures. And why do we have such a constitution? Because the legislator, as has been said, rightly - after a poor historical experience - decided that these measures should be limited in the spirit of human rights protection. In doing so, he looked at the most democratically developed European countries, where the value of human rights protection is high. And I don't know why we should forget about that now. Of course, historical memory is short, and this case is very typical of historical memory being short. Those who have been most alerted to human rights violations in the former system are now approaching the former system in this area. And, colleague Capuder, when you have listed a number of these countries regarding the time of restrictions, please list another country which has the President of the Supreme Court for that instrument that approves these measures. That's a real piece of cake in Europe. And why did you find yourself, and why do you insist so stubbornly on asking yourself? When you have had a number of other options for different amendments, if you are disturbed by a specific president of a particular district court, the law says that the President of the District Court, where the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency is established, assigns these measures to you, I must warn you that there are a number of other district courts, that there are other courts, and I do not know why you came straight to the President of the Supreme Court, which is absolutely incomparable with European countries, if we are already comparing ourselves, and it is also a professionally questionable and difficult to maintain, I would say, because of the arguments that have been cited because extreme cases can occur, although we have a rule that Sova should stop when it comes to our citizens, as a military intelligence agency or service, when it comes to civilians, and hand it over to the police. In extreme cases, however, criminal proceedings may occur and this information may be waived to the police, who then prosecutes on the basis of an order of the investigating judge. And why did you only find the President of the Supreme Court here? This is a real question and I don't know why you insist on it when you have a number of other options that would be acceptable to us, because in the end, once again, security is a common good and we are interested in it both in the position and in the opposition. September 11th, however, these are already very distant events. I know that many things have happened since 11 September, but I reiterate that no service has seen an increase in security at risk in Slovenia, so there are no specific internal reasons, unless there are political reasons. Comrade Petan mentioned Pluto and the debate on Pluto. This is not the topic of today's item, but I would like to warn you about the action against the former director of Rogaška, who also had some things in Croatia on the basis of which the Croatian police persecuted him. I think Interpol's APB is the same as Pluta. If I recall correctly, he was in Austria for a few hours and was handed over by the Austrians as our citizen to Croats who were not a European Union country and did not complicate anything. But Pluto walked for months, and the Slovenian news, and all the newspapers were writing about much worse crimes than it was in this case, and no one did anything about it. Well, that's controversial. Therefore, there is no need to amend the law as in this case, especially in this form. We have taken a step, even on the Commission, and we have understood that it is necessary to extend. We are absolutely opposed, although we have doubts for up to 24 months, because this is a very long time, but to insist under the cover of security that it passes from the district court, because something doesn't fit you there, to the President of the Supreme Court, which is really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u29	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I will now say it out loud because the motioners themselves do not recognise this amendment. I think that he himself is a proposaler, this is exactly what the Ministry of Justice and coalition parties have found that this change is unconstitutional, is in conflict with Article 37 of the Constitution, and that is why, of course, you went to the drafting of an amendment, which means, of course, a limited time, not an unlimited one, as it was before, that we would not blind ourselves here. My opinion remains that the situation in Slovenia is such that the three-headed dragon is enough to control citizens. SOVA, VOMO and police with existing powers, both with undercover police, etc. sufficient to provide the so-called security citizens you are talking about. I still think that the powers and measures they have so far are enough. With regard to comparisons with other European countries. It was mentioned that 19 European countries have unlimited borders. It is not 19, but it is necessary to look at something in each country, not only who determines it, but what should be added on each extension, what arguments and additional arguments should be explained at each extension, whether it should be for 20 days, whether it be for 3 months in some countries, etc., is not a consensus on an unlimited one, but it is always a matter of additional, strong arguments that underpin that it is of course an extension, it is necessary to give these additional arguments. Today was mentioned the word hope that, of course, such information is collected, etc. They don't abuse. Either we're naive or we're being naive, how these jobs work. It is precisely what Petan said about freedom and security, and this is in reverse proportion, but it is here to speak and to raise some hope that these things are not intended for other matters, including political matters, but it is naive, but it is indeed a false or idealistic hope. Finally, around the Supreme Court and the District Court. I do not accept and disagree with the argument that the President of the Supreme Court is an authority that advocates constitutional order and the rule of law, and the President of the District Court does not have this authority. I reject this disdain for discretion and for all the presidents of the district courts. They're in the same rank as this pyramid, but someone has to be the President of the Supreme Court and someone is the President of the District Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u31	Replica, Mr. Mag. Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer's not listening again. I have said that the President of the Supreme Court is the highest guardian, I have not said that others are not guardians of order, I have not said that, Mr Kumer, I have not said that, not to deceive Members and Members. As far as the opinion on constitutionality is concerned. On the Commission it was found and this was found by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that, according to legal theory and practice, there are still open issues, so our legislative and legal service does not yet know whether this is legally disputed or not. But I'm sure if it's confirmed for three months, then it's confirmed for a certain time, it's not confirmed for an indefinite period of time. And also the solution, well, now we've limited it to 24 months, it's a certain time, and therefore we're proposing this amendment, and 24 months is a time for me. And I think all those who understand what time is, it's 24 months, and I don't know why you're saying it's something that's indeterminate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u33	Mr. Rudlof Petan, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u34	So, a replica of Mr. Kumr. Two things. When he said that we can hope that these data will not be misused for different purposes, or that we are naive not to do so. But here I would ask, what about other data collected from other files, and we can only hope that they will not be misused, for example. medical records, but who can assure me that my medical records will not be on my medical card, because now the drugs will be mentioned that my medical records will not be misused, and what other files and third files, because we have the files, who can guarantee it? I can hope it doesn't. It's the same here, but I would even say that maybe some other file, that medical file might be even worse than what I'm talking about, what they're collecting on the security side, at least as far as I'm concerned, because I don't have any problems on the security side to do anything against the country or anyone else. However, health care can be problematic in any case. Who can vouch for me? That's why I'm not asking anyone, like we listened to it yesterday, but who guarantees that it won't be. Is that right? We can hope that the system works normally and that citizens, too, who manage these files, are suitable for this, that they have certain virtues, that these data will also be maintained as required by law. And another on authority. In terms of authority, it is just that sometimes even the rule is written that the authority of the President of the State is certainly higher than that of a mayor, if we go on the political side and the mayor's authority is probably higher than that of the President of the local community, and all respects can be given to citizens without any blemish. But that's the way it is. The commander-in-chief in the military also has a higher authority than a lower officer, and both respects are worthy of the citizens and can also do their work as well as good and quality as possible, so that I do not list anything else. That's the way it is. It's the authority. Sometimes a written rule, sometimes an unwritten rule. And we have also repeatedly said here that this is the supreme authority in this and this area. That's right, but it's no offense to you if you think he's in lower authority -- yeah, that's right. I have just said cases that may not be the best, and I hope that I have not been offensive to any of them when I compared the President of the country and the Mayor to the President of the local community, respectful of all three levels. Each is an authority in its own field, but if we compare it by some common key, surely the President of the country is the supreme authority in this area. There's someone else in the other area. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u35	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the law on the Slovenian Intelligence Agency would not have dealt with it if it had not been for a provision which interfered with communication privacy and, therefore, some things had to be considered from the point of view of human rights protection. Therefore, the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as an interested working body has considered the proposal of the law. It is interesting, however, that at that time, in the Commission after a lengthy debate, even in the light of the opinion of the legislative and legal service which has now been discussed and where this relatively open thesis that you are a legal profession on the question of whether the determination or uncertainty in this case is written or not recorded, is not clear or not uniform, the Commission's position on which I am referring should make it absolutely clear that the Commission adopts a recommendation or decision which discourages the adoption of such a law, which leaves doubt as to whether it is right or wrong. Well, at that time, the Commission was not able to bring an innocent decision through, such as that it should consider in the legislative procedure - the proposaler - the limitation or the joint timing of the monitoring and recording of telecommunications. Therefore, it was not necessary to consider this in the opinion of the Commission. Of course, a different position was taken by the monitoring commission because the composition is different between the coalition and the opposition. I therefore hope that the coalition amendments will now be adopted in plenary because it is clear that they will be adopted because you have decided to do so and because you think it is right. But at least you've come to realize that the solution that was was allowed to be incomplete and open, and you've set some deadline, which is a quadruple of the proposed deadline, the six-month one, and I don't remember that in the National Assembly such an extension would be considered appropriate. It seems more appropriate to me one year, because this is an intervention in human rights, it is an intervention in communication privacy. If this is such a very important issue as security, the Slovenian Intelligence Agency will already be able to gather enough evidence to convince the decision-making body, which will be the President of the Supreme Court in this case, so you propose that it allow for the continuation of supervision. Seems to me that's a minimum what a man would expect. In fact, if I believe the comparisons that you are talking about that European countries have as a rule an unlimited period of control, then I am not considered cynical, but I ask you whether the most tragic experiences in recent history can be plagued if we take some of the events in the near past as an example, but you are saying that security and intelligence services have otherwise arranged things there, that they have different conditions for work, but they have failed to find out some things. Because it is such that the work of security and intelligence services in some cases is ineffective. And I've listened to experts, not just domestically, but also foreign people who are just putting some other issues on the table about terrorism. It is not yet possible to ensure that certain things do not happen to hermetic systems. Therefore, weighing the extent to which to interfere with human rights is justified. And I am concerned, sorry, coalition MPs and Members, if what could be heard is true on the grounds that the security system in Slovenia has not been upgraded. Now I really don't know if we have it or not. I don't deal with these things as much as I do with the Intelligence and Security Services Committee. I cannot answer this question, but as a citizen of this country, I am seriously concerned if this is true. It seems to me that adapting legislation to some experiences in other countries is always a matter of judgment. This is not a matter which would require our national legislation, subject to the Slovenian Constitution, to accept and copy the experiences of other countries. I hope that we are also advocates of constitutional order and our constitutionality, and that we also, as advocates of the rule of law, trust in the judiciary; finally, we are also voting on permanent judicial mandates in the National Assembly. On the other hand, I would like to know how many times the District Court has already rejected the request of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency to intervene in the privacy of communications that this is such a problem. Is the situation really such that we need to sharpen things and, in the most exposed cases, to follow the example that over time can prove to be, even as sometimes not entirely, on all sides of the weighed judgment and statements of those experiences. Now, as far as legislation is concerned. I understand that the transfer of obligations to the President of the Supreme Court can be justified by the legislation in force. But if you are so deeply concerned about security and the dangers our country poses to terrorism, then you would expect to find in any second indent the obligations imposed on the President of the Supreme Court, not under that "and other obligations". There are some marginal things in the back that can be added and not mentioned because they are not so important. Others are more important anyway. Since the amendment proposal has now returned to the meeting of the National Assembly what has already been in law and what has been the legal profession of concerns and comments, I do not intend to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u37	Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I do not support the proposed amendments of the coalition. I think they are bad, I think the mother's working body has taken a step further when it has adopted amendments to the bill that the government has drawn up, and I will justify it with a broader context. You know I am, and I'm doing a lot of work on what's called an information society. Very briefly. This means that it is about understanding information, data as a source of creativity for the development of a company and economy. This creative development potential of the information society is being lost in Slovenia today. Instead, the so-called supervisory potential of the information society comes to the fore. In information technology, data is collected and used to better control people, not only in this case, even in the context of economic reforms. The information society is connected there with connecting parts, with supervision, with verification and so on. The European Union Directive is more general about the storage of traffic operators' data for one year, and is scandalous. All the liberals, the liberal Democrats, the freemen of Europe protested against it, was adopted and led in the wrong direction. And that is why, of course, we cannot accept the difference between us and the coalition, between us - the Liberal Democrats - and the coalition is that we simply cannot accept the so-called "trade off" or trade between freedom and security, we do not accept the need to limit freedom in order to ensure greater security. And we don't know what that would mean if we actually became safe and, of course, both of them not free. What's our security if we don't have freedom? We do not accept such trade and such logic, nor will we ever support it. It is not necessary to follow the example of countries with an unlimited scope of listening and surveillance, and so on, including in these countries, the whole, strong political power and the parties constantly oppose and warn that this can be produced and produced. The fathers of this constitution, mostly dissidents in the previous regime, knew what they wrote, and we have no right to defile it and actually reduce freedom at the expense of increasing security. Security without freedom means nothing to us. At the same time, studies show very clear, I read about New York after 9/11, that you don't want life back to a stable track, that the city didn't die, that the city was on its way back, that the city lived with some painful experience with people who were no longer there, and they were friends, and they were gone and they were victims of a terrorist attack, but this town didn't die, so people don't retreat into privacy, so they communicate, talk and so on. Therefore, I believe that in this area and in other areas, we must try our best not to take the principles of our fundamental values and freedoms on which we live, because of the pretext of terrorism, and not to take terrorism, which is a threat and a threat, primarily as a reason for internal political accounting and for the internal political increase in surveillance in all forms. If you ask me, the forms of surveillance and data collection, secret and non-secret, should be even more limited and more regulated. Why? Since the resources of this data collection are today significantly more sophisticated, significantly more developed, you have no idea, nor do I, but perhaps a little more, what can be collected today and how it can be collected and what is actually collected without me knowing it, in an open public internet and electronic space. That is why I support the proposal of the parent working body, and I call on you to reject the amendments of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u39	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much. When I listen to this debate, I just want to add something for the tape. It was said that after September 11th, a number of things had changed. But I don't know, I don't see any change in these security frameworks, because after 9/11 we had a few more September 11ths, from Madrid, London, to Beslan elementary school. Terrorism, as it is, is not a choice of place and time. So everywhere where it is possible to do the most damage, these things can be expected and I do not understand those who, on behalf of human rights and freedom, advocate for freedom, in fact, those small groups of people who threaten the world with such and other terrorist actions. These freedoms and these human rights for these people who are willing to kill in the most brutal ways as many people as possible, of course not the ones they are angry with, but most often entirely randomly chosen, for such people of human rights and freedom as you stand for, simply cannot be. And here today to perform with as many strong words as we could hear that this level of Stalinism, etc., nicely please, it goes far beyond normal taste. I agree, however, that I myself was a member of the commission that investigated our colleague Friday's case, that at the time that the police had the opportunity by law to eavesdrop on wiretaps, there was nothing they could detect, because those who were potentially suspected knew of these hands and also knew that these funds were being used and that they would normally not communicate at that time. However, if there is a longer period and the possibility to obtain this mandate from the Supreme Court on the basis of a reasoned proposal, then the matter may be much more difficult for these people. And I really don't know why, in the way that is going on in our debate today, we should take on everything to make the matter in the name of human rights as it has been. If Europe has opened these hands, then it is not unusual for Slovenia to do so as part of this Europe, because if Europe remains heavily protected in these respects and Slovenia is not, then we can expect something quickly to happen in the future in the very country where this protection is the smallest and in fact the weakest article in the chain of this security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u41	Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to try to answer the dilemmas of my fellow Member, with whom we are already in the third term together. He said he didn't understand why he didn't trust the Supreme Court. No one was talking about distrust in the Supreme Court, but we were talking about the fact that the government or the billmaker does not trust in the District Court and that a much more quality work will be done if this matter is in the Supreme Court. If it is much more quality there, it means from this assessment a clear statement of logic that the work of the District Courts is less quality, which is, in my opinion, a humiliation or an earpiece to the judicial system. Whoever suggested these things is saying if they put something on top, that something down there is wrong and that this thing is going to be talking much more qualitatively up there. The other thing is about authority. The authority, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a moral ethical issue. For me, authority, for example, is Dr. Bučar with his attitude, with everything he says, with his behavior, his family life and everything. While, for example, some foreign minister has no authority for me. But it is necessary to separate between authority and hierarchical relationship or protocol. But the hierarchical relationship is really like he said, because we see when we have the festive meetings of the National Assembly, who sits in the first place; they are by hierarchy and protocol on the nose and this is just a function. For this reason, by authority, I can appreciate the President of the District Court - at least personally, i.e. a moral ethical question, an internal question - rather than the President of the Supreme Court. And for that, it would be good to listen and try to resolve this knot around the jurisdiction, who should approve, in the way that I mentioned earlier in my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u43	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you. Just a brief explanation. Now a colleague of Moze's has explained his authority, and the hierarchy has explained his human resources position. But if we're already comparing ourselves with Europe and we're listing cases from other countries, then it would also be good to list a few cases, and say that in a country, say Germany, this is done by a high government official who is entrusted with this task by a chancellor, in another country by a defence minister, in a third, by an internal minister, etc., in some of the prosecutors, etc. So it's very plural, very heterogeneous, and so is this solution to who gets these powers. Once again, to confirm what my colleague Moze said earlier, because I was challenged by these authorities. That is exactly what I was thinking and the magnetogram also shows that it was expressed as if the President of the Supreme Court was the one who ensured authority in the field of constitutional and legal competence. Unfortunately, he's doing it the same way, and with the same measure, he's the president of the district court. One more thing about the authority of the current position, the former opposition. When you speak of authority according to your logic, the President of the State is one of the highest authorities in the country, and you remember what you did and how you did with this highest authority in the country when you were in opposition, with the former President of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u45	Mr. Miran Run, please. I really don't know what it is, but I'll let you know, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u46	Again, he quotes me as saying that the President of the Supreme Court is superior to the President of the District Court. I'm sure it's a higher authority, but I never said that the president of the district court doesn't defend the constitution or defend the laws. If not otherwise, why is the President of the Supreme Court a higher authority, he is elected in the National Assembly, he is elected in secret elections by the majority of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u47	Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I argue that the untruth and motivation, if anyone in the coalition wants us, who are advocating that even in the new solutions, a maximum period of time to which specific forms of monitoring can be foreseen is to underpin the defence of terrorists. Such words were not used directly, but meaningfully. It's an ugly instigation, a rude lie. Human rights are guaranteed by us and by the Constitution, who stands up for them, cannot talk about the fact that we want to have a country in which to rule terrorism. Worse than that! However, the excuse for our taking over is that the competent services, which, according to the information of the parent working body exercising control over them in the national assembly, have done the right thing. They did not claim that the solutions so far would be unacceptable to them and that they would therefore have greater problems, nor would they claim that it is necessary to amend the law, because of Europe's demands. All that would have been done with the amendment of the law would have been that the deadline would have been maintained and that even after that deadline, since this does not mean that the next day cannot be re-examined and that it is not possible to re-evaluate the competent judge and decide whether or not to allow monitoring through specific methods. This is said to be just a little more extra work and a retest that would be on the judge's side, not on the competent service's side. This is not a lack of confidence in the job, but one of the guardians who, when it comes to human rights, is useful that anyone who has the right to intervene in a person would not have the secrecy of letters and shipments. And that's all that's proposed. From this to make a terrible big story that guarantees full rights and prevents terrorism in Slovenia and another works Slovenia for the most uncertain country, because the whole of Europe will have better protection - these are simple stories, gentlemen who do not hold back and there is no point in talking about them. However, this time, as always in this national assembly, the decision will be a majority. And if you follow the government, then you'll simplify one of the procedures. You will simplify it, give services that are needed everywhere, do useful work everywhere, but at the same time they are protected everywhere, because their work is always at the border of interference with human rights - you will give these services additional, in my opinion and our firm conviction, unnecessary powers. Because they can already carry out this task and because they could even do it if they did not change in this part of the decision, but, above all, if the provision of Article 37(2) of the Constitution, which is not otherwise decided by the legal and legislative service, should continue to be maintained, it is doubtful that the Constitution provides that the law must determine the time in which such a right is limited - the time of the definitive restriction, because then a new requirement and a re-decision, which you do not wish to enforce, is considered. And when we refer to solutions in other countries, these solutions must always be compared with those of other countries in the constitution and those of us in the constitution. When we wrote the Constitution in 1990 and 1991, we were particularly sensitive to human rights. And human rights were the basis on which we built the whole constitution and criticized the previous constitutions, not because of the human rights content, because they were written very similarly, but because the Constitution did not begin, apart from general provisions, with human rights and because it was proof that the state was not based on human rights and its rights, but on authority. And because of this, these human rights in this constitution are much more detailed, perhaps sometimes too much, but they are. Therefore, the solutions proposed in the legislation must also be compared with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u49	Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. One brief thought, one call, in connection with this amendment. The law itself marks the space of human rights and civil liberties. You and your solutions continue to do so. I call upon you to call upon the government, your government, to remove our soldiers from Iraq, one reason less to intervene in this space. At the time, it was pointed out that with such cooperation we are increasing the threat to Slovenia against the challenge of terrorism, on the other hand, the government has ensured that this will not happen, that the security situation is perfectly fine today - I also expected, of course, that we will come up with such legal solutions, which, however, this space of human rights closer, came sooner than later - today we are in front of it - but not enough what the government itself has proposed, what the committee has adopted, you are going further. Otherwise, I'm not surprised, it's a policy expressed everywhere, more or less, by all right governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u51	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would only make one small contribution to freedom and security. I know that this connection is already about 200 years old and it is probably pointless to talk about where the first of these definitions comes from, but it is in a different sense. In fact, in the sense that overindulgence in ensuring security limits freedom and that it is always necessary to consider whether it is worth such an exaggerated high security to ensure that in the end we are not free. And it is precisely in this law that I would say that, of course, this discussion about the state authority, which is supposed to allow the use of special resources, is of course even more important that the time limit set so far in the law is extended to 24 months. Is there any way that the Slovenian Intelligence Agency is recognised here that it is not able to gather the necessary information in order to be able to stop that association or those people who want to commit all these crimes referred to in Article 24, and it takes two years instead of a year, or even six months, or something else is present here. I must say that it is already true that after September 11 things have changed, but it is not yet said that the security situation in Slovenia has deteriorated so much that we need to allow the supervision of individuals and groups for a longer and longer time. In a year, when this coalition sits even tighter in its saddle than it is now, we will await the amendment of the law for 48 months and so on. I think that "great brother" is already following us closely enough without the permission of the President of the Supreme Court or the District Court to experience such and different pressures and not to write things down in law that will actually put us in constant control.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u53	I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS. He doesn't want a word. I conclude the debate on Article 4. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. He doesn't want a word. I conclude the debate by Article 5. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda or at the latest at 16.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the conditions for the acquisition of property rights by natural and legal persons of the candidate states of membership in the European Union on immovable property, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you are, Dr. Bozo Cerar, Secretary of State. Nicely greeted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u54	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The law on the conditions for the acquisition of property rights of natural and legal persons of candidate countries for membership in the European Union will lay down the ways and conditions under which natural and legal persons from candidate countries can obtain membership in the European Union and candidate countries in real estate in the Republic of Slovenia, unless the international contract or law - unless otherwise provided for in the international contract. In accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, foreigners may acquire property rights on properties in Slovenia under the conditions laid down in the law or in the international contract ratified by the National Assembly. Other EU Member States allow the acquisition of property rights of foreigners on immovable property either without any restriction, such as Germany, Great Britain, Finland, France, Spain, Portugal, or in compliance with certain conditions, such as Austria, Hungary, Poland, Denmark. Croatia and Turkey make it possible for the candidate countries to join in the acquisition of property rights on foreign property, both of which have a condition of reciprocity, while in Bulgaria, Romania and Macedonia this is currently impossible for foreigners to do so. The law in the European Community in the field of real estate law is not laid down and leaves it to national legislation to regulate this area by its domestic law. In doing so, Member States must respect the fundamental principles and rules of the Community, in particular the rules relating to the free movement of capital, the principle of the free movement of persons and the provision of services and the establishment of undertakings and companies. Real estate law is thus not subject to direct regulation of European law. A few words about the purpose of the law. The aim of the law is to open up the real estate market in the candidate countries for EU membership for Slovenian citizens. The law provides that citizens and legal persons from candidate countries can purchase property in Slovenia on a reciprocal basis. In this way, we will ensure that those candidate countries that provide for a condition of reciprocity for the purchase of property by foreigners, as well as Croatia, will, under their applicable legislation, open up the property market for Slovenian citizens. The bill provides for reciprocity as a condition for the acquisition of property rights on immovable property. Reciprocality shall be determined in accordance with the existing law on the determination of reciprocity. This is a so-called material reciprocity that is determined on a case-by-case basis, whether a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or a legal person established in Slovenia can acquire property rights in a foreign country under the same or similar conditions under which they may acquire this right in Slovenia to foreigners. The fulfilment of these conditions for our citizens must also not be significantly more difficult than that laid down in the Slovenian legal order for foreigners. The proceedings shall be conducted by the Ministry of Justice. Dear Members and Members! Allow me a few more words about the arrangements for the acquisition of property rights for foreigners in Croatia. Foreign natural and legal persons may acquire property rights on Croatian property on condition, as I have already said, of reciprocity. This requires the consent of the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and, before that, the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. Croatia is bound by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, which has been in force since 1 February last year. By this agreement, Croatia has committed itself to fully liberalising its real estate market for the citizens of the European Union, which has respected the existing real estate purchase regime since 1 February 2009, and there is a possibility of purchasing, subject to reciprocity. Until Slovenia also establishes reciprocity with Croatia or until it has concluded special international treaties with it, which is unlikely, our citizens will not be able to buy real estate in Croatia. In view of the great interest of Slovenian citizens in the purchase of property in Croatia, it is necessary, according to our assessment, to protect their interests, to enable them to do so as soon as possible. By adopting this law and taking into account the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we will also enable them to do so. It is true, however, that the procedures for obtaining consent in Croatia take quite a while, from a few months to two years. In addition to some Member States of the European Union, the European Commission has also pointed out the longevity of the procedures with Croatia and, according to our information, Croatia will reduce the procedures. It seeks solutions in the direction of increasing employees dealing with this issue, or by deciding only one ministry in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Joseph Horvath, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Dr. Cerar, with co-workers, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. At its 15th regular meeting on 16 May 2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy, which considered the draft law on the conditions for the acquisition of the property rights of natural and legal persons of candidate countries for EU membership in real estate submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance following an urgent procedure. In its consideration of the draft law, the Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service which examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments on Article 3 and 4 of the proposal. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, on behalf of the law's proponents, said that the purpose of the law was to open up the real estate market in Croatia and in other countries candidates for membership in the European Union for Slovenian citizens. The law stipulates that, subject to reciprocity, citizens and legal persons from candidate countries will be able to purchase property in Slovenia and reciprocity will be determined on the basis of the provisions of the existing law on mutuality, which defines so-called material reciprocity. In each case, it shall be noted separately and, as a result of the law on mutuality, the Ministry of Justice shall be the head of the Ministry of Justice. Minister Rupel stressed that Croatia, by adopting a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, had committed itself to fully liberalising its real estate market by 2009. Until then, it will respect the existing real estate purchase regime, which means the possibility of purchasing under conditions of reciprocity. If Slovenia does not establish or conclude special international agreements with Croatia, Slovenian citizens cannot purchase property in Croatia. Given the high interest of Slovenian citizens in the purchase of property in Croatia, it is necessary to protect their interests in order to enable them to do so as soon as possible. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion orally, pointing out in particular the fact that, in the introduction of the bill, the applicant also presented the arrangements for the acquisition of property rights of foreigners in real estate in the EU candidate countries, with special reference to the regime in the Republic of Croatia. It follows from this opinion that in these countries important restrictions are applicable to foreigners with regard to the acquisition of property rights in real estate. It is therefore necessary to take into account the earlier provisions of the law on the determination of reciprocity and the solutions envisaged in Article 4, paragraph 2, to ask whether material reciprocity can be established in specific cases. As already stated, the fundamental issue is the existence of the same and similar conditions for the acquisition of property rights in a foreign country, whose identification must not be significantly more difficult. This also raises the question of whether the proposed law will be able to achieve the purpose of the solution given. In the debate that followed, the members of the committee also highlighted individual concerns, which were based mainly on the findings of the legal and legislative service, and wondered what the implementation of this law would actually mean, as well as on the adoption of the law and considered that it was time for Slovenia to at least formally provide the conditions that would allow Slovenian citizens to purchase real estate in Croatia. The law can also be the basis on which the political will of neighbouring Croatia can be weighed before the wider European community. Since no amendment was tabled to the draft law, the Committee voted on all the articles together after the discussion and further clarifications made by the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is how the committee adopted all the proposals of the law. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with in the proposed text and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, support the law of the Social Democrats. We agree with its objectives and we do not oppose adoption by emergency procedure. Despite the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, we believe that if we do not reach this law, at least we will contribute to the faster opening of the real estate market in those EU candidate countries, where, as we have heard, there is a degree of reciprocity as a condition for the acquisition of property rights in real estate. The talk was, and this was said by the Ministry, in particular about Croatia, which by this provision opened its real estate market a long time ago, to which we or Slovenian citizens and citizens and our legal persons do not have access until our legislation also allows Croatian natural and legal persons to purchase our real estates, so on and on. That's what the law is about. After our entry into the EU, we all know that citizens and citizens of the Union in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia acquire property rights on the basis of all legal bases and not only by buying, for example, by a gift contract, by exchange and similar, under the same legal conditions as those applicable to Slovenian citizens and citizens. However, this does not apply to natural and legal persons in candidate countries, so we need to take a different approach to regulating the opening of their real estate market if, of course, this is of interest. And in the case of Croatia, there is no doubt about it. We are convinced that much more pronounced than the other way around. Therefore, if we allow Croatian citizens and citizens to enter our market, we will allow our citizens access to Croatian. Of course, the implementation of this law does not exclude the complications that are on the Zagreb- Ljubljana route, almost already a practice. But unlike those emerging from the problem, from the well-known border issue that Brussels is constantly telling us, which we do not like to hear about solving on our own bilaterally or not burdening Croatia's accession negotiations and the EU enlargement process, there is little in the area of real estate and access to their market space for so-called bargaining. On the first occasion of possible discrimination when buying a house in Croatia between a German citizen, for example, and a citizen of Slovenia, with the same killings of course, the journey to the European Union would have slowed down, not least to our property. In our view, such concerns are exaggerated from time to time. Of course we'll give support to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u59	Mr Jožef Horvat, please, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you so much once again for your word and once again for everyone's nice greeting. For many years, Slovenian natural and legal persons have faced problems in obtaining property rights on properties in Croatia. Despite the constant efforts made by representatives of the Slovenian authorities so far, the condition of reciprocity foreseen by Croatian legislation for the acquisition of property rights on foreign property has not been satisfied. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the proposal for a law on the conditions for obtaining the property rights of natural and legal persons of candidate countries for membership in the European Union on real estate is a step of the Republic of Slovenia towards solving the problems of Slovenian citizens in obtaining property rights. We do not create illusions and do not expect everything to go smoothly after the adoption of this law on the acquisition of property rights, especially in Croatia. In fact, any foreign natural or legal person seeking property rights in the Republic of Croatia must first obtain the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, on a legal basis different from inheritance, according to the previous opinion of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. The New Slovenia Group supports Slovenia's interest that as a member of the European Union, natural and legal persons from candidate countries should be equalised as soon as possible with regard to the acquisition of property rights in real estate with those from the Member States of the European Union and with domestic citizens, as this gives them a comparative advantage with the candidate countries. It is the opening up of the real estate market in those candidate countries where reciprocity is established as a condition for the acquisition of the property rights of foreigners on immovable property. Reciprocality will be determined on the basis of a law on the determination of reciprocity defining so-called material reciprocity. The opening of the real estate market for natural and legal persons of candidate countries gives the Republic of Slovenia arguments to protect the interests of its citizens at international level, and this seems particularly important to us. And this is also one of the key reasons why the New Slovenia Group of Members will support the bill under consideration. We are of the opinion that the adoption of the bill provides sufficient and necessary conditions for the opening of the real estate market for Slovenian citizens and legal persons established in the Republic of Slovenia in the candidate countries for membership in the European Union. The law will allow citizens and legal persons from these countries to acquire property rights in properties in the Republic of Slovenia and, subject to the conditions of reciprocity, this will also apply to Slovenian citizens and legal persons established in the Republic of Slovenia in candidate countries. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that this is a quality marriage solution, so we will also support this bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u61	Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support a proposal for a law that, on the basis of reciprocity, releases the real estate market or gives the possibility of acquiring property rights in properties in the Republic of Slovenia to natural persons and legal persons from candidate countries for EU membership on the basis of reciprocity. On this legal basis, the Republic of Slovenia will certainly create much greater opportunities for many of our citizens, who in fact already own such or other immovable property, especially in the Republic of Croatia, to register land as their property, through the principle of mutual reciprocity. However, if we take a closer look at the concerns raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its written opinion in the light of the fairly simple article 4 of the proposal of this Act, it is possible that, in practice, the implementation of this law or the application of mutual reciprocity, for which the initial basis of this proposal of the law is based, the expectation of a lot of people will be undermined. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, the proposal would be much more relaxed than we would have if, in our opinion, the proposer listened to the legislative and legal services and incorporated in Article 4 certain solutions which should include a law on mutuality that would prevent mutual non-discrimination in practice. Let me also point out, on this occasion, that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are not exactly indifferent, at least not until the latest, when some of the thoughts in this coalition tend to be that the legislative and legal opinion is often disruptive in the process of adopting legislation. I think that such thinking is wrong and that we will, sooner or later, adopt bad legislation on such a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u63	Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u64	Your Honors are here! For a long time, in the context of the explanation of this law, within the framework of the reasons for its adoption, the proposed law has again started to refer to the three fundamental freedoms of the EU. According to our conduct, based on the practice of the legislative branch, we can say with certainty that these three fundamental freedoms have been for quite some time and, above all, since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, have been neglected within the framework of words and, above all, within the framework of actions. The fact is, when we were adapting our legislation to the Slovenes, all those who were rooting for entry into the European Union promised us these three fundamental freedoms. First, capital flows, movements of persons and services. After 1.5.2004, when we entered the European Union, we witnessed that we did not receive all three fundamental freedoms, such as those of the basic members of the European Union and on the basis of which the basic acts of the European Union are being adopted. Two years later, we see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has regained its courage, but has only been encouraged by the local public, has not been encouraged before the European institutions and the European public, because the fact is that the Slovenian government, as an actor who has the right to cooperate and act within the European institutions, does not require the application of all three fundamental freedoms for our country. Slovenians and Slovenians are still deprived of one of the fundamental freedoms. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet come up with the idea of exercising its fundamental right or demanding the exercise of that right in practice in this mandate. But today we are again in the period when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with its act and we are convinced by Members and the Slovenian public of three fundamental freedoms, on the basis of these three fundamental freedoms, which we do not receive from Slovenians and Slovenes, has come with a so-called law which should, at least on the basis of words that are defined, written, have a lot of promise for Slovenian citizens and citizens, especially for those who wish, need or financial interest to enter - and I will touch exclusively - Republic of Croatia. Before doing so, allow me to point out, according to our assessment, the greatest flaw in the law or law currently in the procedure, which is the meaning expressed in Article 2. In Article 2, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia convinces us of the importance of natural persons, i.e. Croats, and legal persons in the field of the Republic of Croatia. According to our assessment, both definitions of terms or the meaning of expressions under natural persons and legal persons are very cheaply written, since both definitions cover a much broader concept given that we know basic legislation from this area in the Republic of Croatia, as defined in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. From this title comes the first inequality under this law, and this inequality to the detriment of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to point out below the basic starting points which have emerged from the date on which Croatia decided to start implementing the European acquis in pursuit of the goal of full membership. The existing implementing acts or the envisaged role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice within the European Union clearly indicate that there will be no equivalent implementation of this or identical law within Croatia. This means that those who claim - and this flies primarily to the government of the Republic of Slovenia - that this law will solve all the dilemmas, according to our assessment of the "fucked" is wrong. In particular, if we come from defined institutions in the process under Croatia, the short term of Croatian policy, in particular on the basis of credibility or the element of credibility of Croatia as a country in the process. According to our assessment, real estate law has been abandoned or is not subject to direct regulation of European law. Therefore, Slovenia should take advantage of its full-fledged membership advantage in this area, especially on the basis of knowledge of Croatian situations, to prevent such work from being done by Croatian natural and legal persons in our country. We will not support this bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u65	Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice welcome to the government! The law on the conditions for the acquisition of the property rights of natural and legal persons of candidate countries for membership in the European Union refers to the principle of reciprocity. The adoption of the law alone will not completely release the purchase of real estate, but Slovenia will take a major step forward by adopting this law, on the basis of which it can do more for its citizens, who have been in a worse position compared to the citizens of some other countries. The main obstacle to the smooth purchase of real estate in Croatia for the time being must be the conditions in force in the Republic of Croatia, since only if three conditions are met can the foreigner acquire real estate there. The first condition is the existence of reciprocity and then there are two conditions: the previous opinion of the Minister for Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia. And it is this ministry that has the scissors and the canvas in its hands and can enforce the discriminatory right to purchase. The adoption of the law will take a step forward in Slovenia and if Croatia wants to cooperate, monitor the European spirit, open the market, the flow of capital and other European acquisitions, then it will also have to show some political will in the area of the purchase of real estate and thus establish reciprocity and things will start to move. However, if it imposes impossible conditions and makes excuses, Slovenia will have in its hands an adute to remind the European public of this. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because it helps to regulate the situation of current and future property owners in Croatia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u67	And also Dr. Pavel Gantar, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u68	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, co-workers at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! In the LDS, we support the proposal of the law. We are pleased that the government has only learned that the adoption of this law is not only in the interest of Slovenian citizens who own such and otherwise in Croatia, but also of the interest of the State of Slovenia as members of the European Union, as the closest neighbours of the candidate for membership of Croatia. Of course, this law applies to all candidates for entry into the European Union, but it is clear that our debate under this law is all of us, our reflection is largely tied to one country alone. It is true, as mentioned, that this could also be addressed by the conclusion of an interstate agreement, we agree with the introductory conclusion that this would probably be very difficult to take up a lot of time and probably not succeed. Slovenia has also not recently discovered the condition of reciprocity for the purchase of real estate in Croatia, but we know that this law and the obligations that Croatia has adopted will not in themselves simply facilitate the concrete efforts of citizens of the European Union in this area. We know that Italy has read to Croatia that it is blocking the purchase of property for its citizens. Therefore, clearly, there is no need for any improvement in the reasons for the adoption of the law, such as the desire to equalise candidate citizens with EU citizens. The only main objective of the law from our point of view is, of course, to align the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with the citizens of the other members of the European Union and thus facilitate access to the real estate market in the candidate countries for membership in the European Union, where reciprocity is defined as a condition. Of course, as I have already mentioned, however, it is necessary to know that opening this condition will not in itself facilitate the long-term process of acquiring real estate in Croatia, unless the Croatian authorities decide otherwise and they begin to serve this process more quickly. If not, this path will still be difficult, but this law will surely be, and that is only to be said, the basis for discussions on the status of those Slovenian citizens and their properties, which they concluded after 1991. So while we welcome the fact that this law is here, when we do not oppose this procedure, of course we could say that it would be good for the government to come sooner with such a law. They had a large resounding session in Briony, various declarations, no concrete consequences. However, this law seems important to us and it is appropriate to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u69	We are done with the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there was no discussion on the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting, within a half hour of the end of the 28th agenda or at the latest at 4:45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the time of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Communities and on the Determination of Their Areas, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Minister Jagar, you have the floor and welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the honourable ones! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a preliminary procedure carried out in the National Assembly and following the holding of an advisory referendum in the Referendum Areas established by a resolution on the call for a referendum, and the setting up of referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas, prepared a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas. The referendum was called for after the re-examination of the proposal for the establishment of municipalities, at the invitation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which annulled part of the decision of the National Assembly, by which it found that certain proposed areas did not meet the conditions for the municipality as provided for by law. In particular, it was a matter of assessing whether these municipalities will be able to provide primary health care services to their inhabitants after their establishment. The National Assembly reexamined all congregations rejected for the same reason and thus ensured equality for all. The 9.4.2006 referendum was held in eight referendum areas. In the three proposed areas - the municipality of Rakek, the designation from the municipality of Cerknica, Lower Idrija, the designation from the municipality of Idrija and Poljana, the election from the municipality of Gorenje vas - was negative. On the basis of the positive results of the referendum, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly the establishment of new five municipalities, namely Gorenje - the designation from the municipality of Bled, Log-Dragomer, the election from the municipality of Vrhnika, Rijeka ob Savinja, the election from the municipality of Mozire, Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Goricah, the election from the municipality of Lenart and Šentrupert from the municipality of Trebnje. For the new congregations, the law provides for the names, seats and number of members of the first congregation council. On the basis of the assessment followed by the existing legislation, the newly created municipalities will not constitute additional financial obligations for the state budget. I therefore propose to Members and Members that they support the proposal for a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u71	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Srečko Hvac, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. It is also a greeting to visitors who observe and listen to us. Therefore, at its 11th urgent meeting on 18.5.2006, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the State Assembly following an urgent procedure. As is clear from the explanation of the bill's proposal and as explained by the Government's representative at the Committee's meeting, the draft law is prepared on the basis of the results of the vote at the referendum on the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas, which was called by the State Assembly by a decree adopted at its meeting on 1 March this year, which was carried out on 9 April. At the referendum, the majority of voters in individual referendum areas attended the referendum spoke for the establishment of new municipalities of Gore, Rijeka ob Savinja, Šentrupert, Log-Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica. In those areas, the government has also proposed the establishment of new municipalities in the draft law. In the referendum areas for the establishment of the new municipalities of Rakek, Gorenje Vas, Poljana and Lower Idrija, most of the voters who attended the referendum spoke against the establishment of a new municipality. In those cases, the Government also took into account the outcome of the referendum and did not propose the establishment of new municipalities in these areas. With regard to the proposed establishment of the new five municipalities, it is also important to state that the proposal does not entail additional financial obligations for the state budget. The proposed new municipality of Log-Dragomer will be able to self-financing after the current calculations, as well as the municipality of Bled, from which the proposed new municipality of Goreje is expected to be excluded. The legislative and legal service which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects of it had no comments. In the debate on the individual articles of the draft law, noting that there were only two articles, the members of the committee had no comments. On the basis of the amendment tabled by Ambassador Anton Kokalj to Article 1, which proposed the establishment of a new municipality of Rome Toplice, a debate has been opened or an amendment may be considered in this procedure according to its content. As you are aware, the National Assembly called for a referendum in the area of work of the municipality of Laško, which is to be expelled from the municipality of Laško to the new municipality of Rome Toplice by a decree adopted at the meeting on 15 December of the previous year. In doing so, it provided for a referendum outcome to be determined specifically for the area of the local community of Zidani Bridge. The referendum was held on 29.1.2006. In the area of the local community, Zidani Most voted in favour of only 15.38% and 84.39% of voters. Despite the positive referendum outcome in the remaining area of the proposed new municipality of Rome Toplice, since 67.31 electorates were elected to the new municipality, the government did not propose the establishment of a new municipality of Rome Toplice in the process at that time, taking into account the results of all the separate votes in the referendum. In its opinion, the Government already stressed in the preliminary procedure that the proposal to establish the municipality of the Roman Toplice without the territory of the local community of Zidani Most does not meet the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality, since in this case the area of the local community of the Zidani Bridge would remain unrelated to the remaining area of the municipality of Laško. Both the government representative and the legal representative considered the proposed amendment irrelevant by its content because the proposal is not the subject of the current procedure for the establishment of new municipalities or for the modification of their areas and within the framework of the referendum. In their view, the procedure for the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Rome Toplice was completed on the basis of the negative outcome of the vote in the area of settlements of the local community of Zidani Most at the referendum, which, as already mentioned, was carried out on 29.1.2006. The proposal to establish a new municipality of Rome Toplice can therefore only be the subject of a re-trial procedure, but it is by no means possible to propose the establishment of a new congregation in this case. The Committee voted in favour of the opinion of the government representative and the legal representative that the content of the amendment is irrelevant in view of the current procedure. In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the Committee did not vote on the amendment itself on the basis of that amendment. The Committee then voted on both articles of the bill together and adopted them. Given that no amendments have been tabled to the bill and that no amendments have been adopted by the committee, the proposal has not been supplemented and I propose that you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. A well-welcome minister with a co-worker, Members and Members and all present on the balcony. Apparently, it was not only the weather that cooled down, but also the topic of the new congregation, at least after the winter debate, is no longer an interest in this topic in the National Assembly. In our consideration, we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law establishing municipalities and defining their areas, more specifically: we are today establishing 5 new municipalities that will join the 205 already established. These are the new congregations that were disputed at the end of last year, according to some of the congregation’s parliamentary groups, for failing to meet the criteria for primary health care or because they do not yet have a healthcare home. According to the constitutional opinion of March, they were re-examined in the National Assembly, which finally approved the referendum that on a flowery Sunday the inhabitants in these areas declared themselves new, about their municipality. Thus, 8 suggestions for municipalities were given for a referendum, and in 5 municipalities, most of the population decided to move to a new municipality. Members of New Slovenia supported the establishment of new municipalities, where an initiative by civil initiatives by the local community or the municipal council took place. We will support the same efforts for the municipalities of Šentrupert, Sveti Jurij in Slovenski gorica, Log-Dragomer, Gorje and Rijeka in Savinja today as well as in December and March. All five proposals have reasons to establish our own will be historic, because they already exist, and in the 1960s they were politically abolished for no valid reason are geographically completed units, places are functionally linked, etc. In Novi Slovenija we regret that some municipalities have also been appointed in this mandate. Thus, for example, the Roman Spas, where the majority of the people have made up their minds, have been hindered by a minority in the Wall Bridge. If most of these times in the National Assembly have adhered to the law in a consistent manner, we know that some Members of the same parliamentary groups have helped to establish congregations in the past decade that did not have as many as 2,000 inhabitants who did not comply with all the articles of the law, even those who did not speak of the competence of the healthcare home, more than a few ten congregations have been established where people did not make the majority decision about the new congregation, and you have supported them. In Novi Slovenije we also supported the initiatives of civil initiatives, local communities as well as the municipal council in setting up the municipality, also in fact because no civil initiative has yet taken place to abolish the municipality. Of the 193 active congregations, no one came forward, so we do not believe that these 5 congregations could not be brought to life. More, it will live, develop and work in the interest of the people living in the area. If we had listened in past mandates, such as for Kostajeva on Krka, for Šentrupert, for Mokronog, for Straža, for Šmarjeta and for a dozen others, we would have lived, not whimpered in the local community. Today, I would be sure to commend these congregations for their achievements, schools, health homes, more roads, public water supply, and the things the congregation is responsible for. Because there was no hearing because the mother congregation had behaved machetely to these places for more than a decade, and today they have been asking for the vote again, for the approval of the congregation. The formation of the local community is a constitutional right. With new municipalities, people are looking forward to a faster development in economic, social, cultural life. In Nova Slovenija today we will support the establishment of Šentrupert, Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica, Log-Dragomer, Gore and Rečica ob Savinja, and thus give them the opportunity to form a local community where they can better listen to the needs of the population and work in their interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Mikhael Prevc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent to the National Assembly for consideration and reception, by proposing that the proposal for a law be considered and adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. The bill is prepared on the basis of the results of the vote at the referendum for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas, which was on 9 April this year. At the referendum, most of the voters who attended the referendum spoke for the establishment of new municipalities of Gore, Rijeka ob Savinja, Šentrupert, Log-Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica. In those areas, the government has also proposed the establishment of new municipalities in the draft law. In the proposed referendum areas for the establishment of the new municipalities of Rakek, Gorenje Vas, Poljana and Lower Idrija, the majority of voters who attended the referendum spoke against the establishment of a new municipality. In those cases, the Government also took into account the outcome of the referendum and did not propose the establishment of new municipalities in these areas. It should also be said that the draft law does not impose additional financial obligations on the state budget. The proposed new municipality Log-Dragomer will be self-financing and also the municipality of Bled, from which the new municipality of Goreje is to be excluded. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that all the newly formed municipalities will be able to function normally, as the majority opinion of the voters who decided at the referendum for the new municipalities means that in such a community they see the possibility of providing and fulfilling their interests and needs. In all the areas where new congregations are established under this law, the initiative committees, together with the candidates, have already identified before the referendum the majority desire and the need to establish a new congregation for individual settlements, villages or local communities. Where this desire was not sufficiently researched and established, it broke down at the referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, on this occasion, we would like to stress once again that in the Local Self-Government Act, it would be reasonable to consider who would propose an initiative for a new municipality. In order to avoid the complications that have arisen in certain areas in the setting up of municipalities this time, it is important that the proposer well knows the climate and the will of people in a given area. This is best known by the saints of local communities and the councils of the congregation. As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party, we certainly welcome the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you. Good day to you all, on my behalf, especially the visitors on the balcony! I invite my colleague Bogdan Barovic to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we have already made it clear at the beginning that we oppose the expansion of the number of municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia; of course, as no one will ever listen to us. Secondly, in the Slovenian National Party, we have made it clear and loud that we are in breach of the Law on the Establishment of Communities because none of them fulfils the legal provisions, which are very clear: 5,000 people or by amending the new Law 2,000 under exceptional conditions. This is where we went to 50, 100, 350 people and so on. Okay. Thirdly, if this was already the will of the parent body and in this national assembly, we said in the Slovenian National Party, and then let us respect the referendum will of the people. And the referendum will of the people was clear. She was clear, and we respected her, except that they were different vats for different congregations. In particular, let us look into our eyes and speak honestly, not because the neighboring congregation is — let us look at the Roman Spas! It is not right for them that the congregation, for some others who had the same story, are the same building, but it is good. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that it is not good to expand, even now that the constitution has changed and that we will shape the regions as they should be, that is, the regions that will be even on one side of parliament, and we will have no idea how many hundred, two hundred or not know how many municipalities. It's not right. Secondly, it is not true that there are no financial consequences and that there will be no financial consequences, how great they will be. Thirdly, the transition to the euro area will make it so much bigger. They will, and that's the truth to be written today. Fourthly, in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that the last year, of course, are in the local area, i.e. the year of local elections, the most and also the law established by popular new municipalities. This law needs to be amended. Now you're some, I'm not gonna say who, everyone between us can be like this, buying polls at the expense of new congregations. And not only on the account of the new municipalities, so that someone who wants to do so will become mayor, and later on the account on, because someone has become mayor, that there will be a political option, any one, we are all the same, two years from now again in power, in government or not in government, but only that he will be in Parliament. That's it. That's the truth. We are breaking the law in this national council. Ladies and gentlemen, prove to me that this is not true. The law clearly states that a congregation can be established if it has 5,000 or more inhabitants. It says clearly in the law. Except for two or more thousand. See the list of all congregations. Almost 30% of these congregations have fewer than the legal provisions, and we were in favour. We break our own laws, we break our own laws. That's the truth. Therefore, in no case will we support this law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. I invite Ambassador William Rezman to present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We do not all have exactly the same views about the establishment of the congregations, but I suppose we all feel that this is a deadly serious matter, because it is a matter of life, for the everyday life of people who do not simply parliamentary, but have their fundamental rights, opportunities, interests, needs to be met there. Therefore, I am judging, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we are dealing with the congregations, in particular with their amendments, too often. They're on the wallpaper all the time. Someone wants more. So those who are already being crushed are being vaccinated into smaller parts, and they are, in contrast to some others, in contrast to the thinking of some others, also weaken. Not to strengthen them, we judge that we are weakening them, so we do have a whole lot of them, so we also have what I like to call informational ones, which are barely noticeable and unable to perform the functions that the law gives them. However, these changes in local self-government continue to take place somehow in waves. It would be interesting to compare these waves with elections, especially at local level, and to see how close they are to each other. Local elections and changes to local self-government. We therefore hope to say that we do not have a concept beyond this political concept for the development of local self-government. We're discussing and reorganizing something that's kind of succinct, sort of on a relationship from nothing to infinity. We don't even have the right limitations to stop us anywhere. When these restrictions are, and we are voluntarily denying them somehow, we have more political will than the regulation we have written down. So, according to our assessment, these are political projects, projects that depend on client references, which is also clearly shown by the fact that there is a line of opposition or a line of support for the position and opposition almost without exception. The time of these divisions, as we said, is the time of political elections. That is why we are always in some sort of time-consuming situation, and then the government must also propose an emergency procedure to catch the last train and to elect ourselves to the municipal councils or to the positions of mayors or mayors. This true establishment, we hope, will be stopped, however, the gold we place our hopes in the aforementioned establishment of the provinces. This could do something, but there is also no guarantee that political volunteerism will be present. When we establish this, the Constitutional Court also warns us that we are wrong to make mistakes. And this was the way that we were warned for the five congregations that we had adopted decisions that were not appropriate, and of those five, only two were people in the referendums for the establishment and three were added again in the National Assembly. Interestingly, these three have achieved sufficient support for the political will that all three have been successful. In the DeSUS Group, we are not advocates of excessive fragmentation, but it is true that we are working to prevent the establishment of new congregations, or we are making further mistakes in the sense that these new proposed congregations are then disadvantaged with regard to those who have already been, and that they may have met even fewer conditions. So now it is clear where the underlying problem is. The fundamental problem is in politics and in the law we have, which has criteria that would be difficult to tell them are indeed criteria and valid reasons for establishing congregations. But where the people at the referendums nevertheless decided that they wanted to have their congregations, and a large part opposed them there, we will not be an obstacle to the establishment of new congregations. Therefore, these proposals, which have now been proposed, will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thanks, buddy Rezman. The representative of the Hungarian National Community, Mrs Maria Pozsonec, is present on the list of applicants. [[She's not here.]] I therefore invite Member Sreč Hvauc to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law establishing five new municipalities, namely Gorje, Rijeka ob Savinja, Šentrupert, Log-Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica. We will support him for three main reasons. First, because we think or our principled position is to support the development of local self-government and equal opportunities for all. The establishment of these five other municipalities is an additional step in this cycle, which has been or has been in this package, which has already happened, and in our opinion it means that where they meet some of the minimum conditions for them to act as autonomous municipalities and where they are also willing to take responsibility for their operations and for their development, we will also allow them to do so. The second reason why we support the establishment of five additional municipalities in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which are in this bill, is that it seems appropriate for us to apply the same criteria for all. If, at the beginning of this package, we have given the opportunity to set up some congregations, it is also right that those who meet all the legal requirements should be given the opportunity to do so. It is true that when the National Assembly decided in the first package of new congregations, we did not have a clear view of what this provision of health care meant. That is why what happened to us and the Constitutional Court, which is the authority in this area, clearly warned us about the need to explain the law. With this proposal that we have before us today, we are in fact correcting this mistake. The third reason is the referendum will. Where people have decided to want their congregation, there we will also respect this referendum will in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That is why we fully support the proposal of the mother labour body and will also support the law establishing these new five congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you. Ambassador Cveta Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u84	Nicely greeted! On the basis of the report on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the referendum for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas and thus proposed the establishment of new municipalities. The National Assembly should consider and adopt the draft law following an urgent procedure at this meeting, as it would no longer be possible to hold regular local elections in the proposed municipalities at any later date, especially if the elections are called or proceedings begin in July. In the LDS, we will not oppose the establishment of new municipalities that meet certain conditions by law, but we will consider whether the question of the establishment of new municipalities would not apply for a new one, for the following reasons. In 2005, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on Local Self-Government, which also stipulates that it is exceptionally possible to establish a municipality with less than 5,000 inhabitants if the conditions for an exception are met, but not a municipality with less than 2,000 inhabitants. This established the legal basis for the continuous requirements for the establishment of new municipalities and thus the fragmentation of existing, particularly major Slovenian municipalities. The latter, in our view, introduces instability into the local self-government system and prevents the effective execution of local self-government tasks. Moreover, it inevitably leads to the issue of taking responsibility for tasks that small congregations cannot carry out properly. Of course, we are aware that all of this is due mainly to the local community funding system. After this exception has been legalized, we establish an extraordinary congregation in the State Assembly itself. None of the newly established congregations met the criteria of 5,000 inhabitants. With the help of the Constitutional Court, it has been shown that any proposal for the establishment of a new municipality comprising an area of at least 2,000 inhabitants has a potential for success. In the last decision, the Constitutional Court stated that, as a reason for the re-decision on the establishment of the aforementioned or these municipalities, the State assembly should consider that the individual conditions or criteria for the establishment of the municipality may be relative, meaning that it is necessary to determine whether the municipality is capable of ensuring the fulfilment of the common needs alone or in cooperation with other municipalities. With such an interpretation of the legal provisions on the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities, the Constitutional Court opened the door for the establishment of new and new municipalities at a standstill. In addition, despite recent changes in the procedure for setting up new municipalities, the consideration of proposals for setting up or modifying their areas is accompanied by ongoing procedural complications in the National Assembly as well. It is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the procedure under which the procedures for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of areas are dealt with specifically neither by law nor by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is important to ask whether the territorial formation of the local community can really be understood only as the technical implementation of the Special Procedure Act, which determines whether the specific proposals coming from the territory fulfil the prescribed conditions for the establishment of a new municipality. Proposals for new municipalities shall be considered in the Government, in the National Assembly, first on whether the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities are met, then in the second phase on the establishment of the congregations themselves. It does not even matter what decisions are taken in these bodies, since the final decision is a matter of the Constitutional Court. This court shall determine the constitutionality and legality of the decisions taken. Although it is a matter of deciding on the question of internal decommissioning, the final word is the Constitutional Court, since it is decided in the municipalities as a legal issue for the implementation of the law. Such decisions by the Constitutional Court, however, constitute an intervention in the right of the legislator to freely judge or to call for a referendum and to establish municipalities in the framework of constitutional provisions and laws. All of this suggests that something in this area will certainly need to be changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you. Member Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! By voting on the new five municipalities, the process of establishing new municipalities that will live through this year's local elections will be completed. In the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, since the preparation and start of the reform of local self-government, we draw attention to the excessively fragmented Slovenia. At the same time, we are also reminding him of the process we witnessed, despite the fact that in the past we have established municipalities, we have set up many municipalities, instead of decentralising the country, we have actually caused centralisation. Centralisation because the state simply failed or did not wish to delegate tasks to local communities also by assessing that these local communities are too small to carry out the tasks performed by the State at this time. The real interest in establishing new municipalities is certainly faster and better to develop a particular environment. However, a narrow view of locally divided Slovenia shows us very clearly that the largest number of municipalities in the area where development has been the most lagging behind in recent years. At the same time, it is essential to recognize that, regardless of size and size, the congregations have largely justified their existence. Citizens and citizens have accepted them as their own, and the process of bringing the smaller municipalities together into a larger, complete community is not detectable. In this mandate, we have decided in the majority of the parties that the provinces are necessary and we have initiated a procedure to amend the constitution which will allow the adoption of the legislation necessary for the comprehensive and simultaneous establishment of the provinces without so-called grey foxes. The establishment of new municipalities is certainly an indicator of the dissatisfaction of individual areas with regard to their situation within the existing municipality. However, this is not the only reason for the demands or wishes of individual parts of the present congregations for independence. One of the main reasons is certainly the existing law on the financing of municipalities, which naturally encourages the establishment of new municipalities. All the calculations presented by the supporters of the new congregations show that there will be more resources available than the ones earmarked for their territory by the present congregation. We can understand from the explanation of the current proposal that there will be no financial implications for the budget. And if we add that the present congregations from which the new congregations will be formed will not be significantly deprived, then the story or project is extremely interesting. Nobody loses, we all win. It is worth reiterating that less than 30 of these 210 congregations, as far as we have them, will be financed. It is very difficult for all those who strive for a new congregation to explain the opposition when many exceptions have been adopted in the past when the exceptions have become a rule. Last year we passed or amended the Law on Local Self - Administration. Although the law states that the municipality has at least 5,000 inhabitants, it is added that the municipality can exceptionally be established if it has fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, but not less than 2,000 inhabitants. It must be recognised that by setting a minimum, a security guard, which is the only one who endures, is installed, since all other exceptions such as geographical, border, national, historical or economic reasons, only allow for those exceptions that have actually become a rule. There's no settlement that wouldn't be within the grounds that allow exceptions. As I have already said, in the Group of Social Democrats we do not like the excessive fragmentation of the country against the smaller municipalities, but we respect the decision and will of the people in the referendum, as most in the Group of Members will not oppose it. We share good wishes with the people and people of new municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there was no discussion on the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda or at the latest at 4:45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE WITNESSES PROTECTION LAW, Urgent PROCEDURE. In doing so, I inform you that a total time of 45 minutes is foreseen for the debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Witness Protection Act lays down the conditions and procedures for the protection of witnesses and other persons who are at risk of cooperation or testimony in criminal proceedings. The basic provisions state, inter alia, that the information generated in relation to the implementation or intended for the implementation of this Act must be marked and treated by an appropriate level of secrecy, in accordance with the rules governing classified information. In view of the content governed by the Witness Protection Act, it is clear that the data generated or intended for the implementation of this Act must be accessible only to a narrow circle of persons, which is one of the conditions for the successful implementation of the necessary safeguards and protection programmes. The law in force in Article 44 provides that, pending an appropriate amendment or addition to the Income Act, the financial resources granted to protected persons under the law shall be exempt from taxes and contributions. This is mainly the case with financial resources provided to protected persons under the economic support measure set out in Chapter 5 of this Act. If a protected person had to make a statement on the rate of income, it should also disclose the source of his income, which could endanger his or her safety. In the course of the preparation of the financial regulation for the implementation of the law and the way in which the records are maintained and used, provided for in Article 37(2) of the Law by the Minister of the Interior, it was found that meetings and reimbursements of the actual costs of members of the Commission for the protection of persons at risk have fallen out of the provisional tax exemption presented. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 7 of this Law, the members of the Commission shall be entitled to a meeting and reimbursement of the actual costs relating to participation in the work of the Commission. In view of the nature of the competence of the Commission, there may also be a threat to the members of the Commission and it is therefore expressly laid down in Article 6, paragraph 7, of the Witness Protection Act that data on the members of the Commission may only be transmitted at the request of the court for the purposes of criminal proceedings. However, the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law provides that the meetings of the Commission shall be kept secret. In the light of the above and taking into account the applicable rules governing the payment of taxes and other taxes on revenue, it will not be possible to ensure that data on the members of the Commission are not disclosed, which may have negative consequences for ensuring their safety and security of persons who will be included in the protection programmes under the provisions of this Act. Therefore, it is proposed to supplement Article 44 of the Witness Protection Act by exempting members of the Commission from taxes and contributions under that transitional provision of the Witness Protection Act until the law governing income is amended or supplemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to fellow Members and fellow Members and representatives of the government! The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Witness Protection Act at its 22nd emergency meeting. The representative of the proposed State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice explained in the introduction the reasons for the need for an amendment. The members and members of the Committee were not discussed below, nor were the amendments tabled to the proposal. Thus, we have also unanimously adopted the two proposed articles of the law, and we are proposing only these to this respected assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Member Kristijan Janc will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party will support both articles in the Witness Protection Act and agree to do so, in view of all that has been said at the committee's meeting itself and also today's presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I'll be a second longer than my predecessor. The Witness Protection Act, the Watch Tower Law, the law that we are amending by this Act, was published in the Official Journal on 16.12.2005 and will apply from 1.7.2006. It is true, however, that we are going to accept the minimum changes that we are about to make today, but it is interesting that we are amending or correcting a law that has not actually entered into force. This is a very interesting work of the government, but it seems a little unrealistic to me that it's really better late than never, to figure out what else to do. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the law, but we warn the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, in preparing future laws, it should first consult the professional public and experts, so that there will be no such anomalies that a law does not enter into force at all, but we are already correcting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Vas Klavor will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u96	Dear Mr. Vice President! Mr. Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a law supplementing the witness protection law tabled today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure. The basic law on witness protection lays down the conditions and procedures for the protection of witnesses and other persons at risk of participation in the pre-trial procedure and during and after the completion of the criminal procedure. As a result of the inclusion in the protection programme, the way of life of the endangered witnesses, their loved ones and other persons involved in the witness protection programme may be significantly changed, while some of their rights may be limited to a certain extent. All information collected in relation to this programme shall be marked and treated by an appropriate level of confidentiality in accordance with the rules governing classified information and may only be made available to a narrow circle of persons. This is one of the conditions for the successful implementation of emergency protection measures and protection programmes, as we know that criminal associations are seeking to detect these persons in different ways. This is precisely why a certain degree of data confidentiality is needed in the meeting or functioning of the Commission to protect persons at risk. The Commission shall take decisions concerning the inclusion of persons at risk in the protection programme, and the successful implementation of the protection programme shall also require an appropriate narrow circle of persons who know the data related to the individual protection programme. To this end, the law prescribes the secrecy of at least the Commission. In accordance with the objective of protection, certain confidentiality of the data relating to financial resources provided to protected persons under the economic support measure is also laid down, namely, such financial resources are exempt from taxes and contributions. The Witness Protection Act, however, has one weakness concerning the confidentiality of the data, which is the main reason why we have a bill before us today. The law does not provide for the confidentiality of the financial resources obtained by the members of the Commission in the form of meetings and reimbursement of travel expenses. With the possible introduction of an estimate of the income of these persons, data deemed to be classified are accessible to a larger circle of people, which is in full opposition to the protection system and the purpose of data confidentiality. The proposal for a law on this weakness is submitted according to our belief, and we will therefore support it in the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party support the proposed amendment to the Witness Protection Act. The purpose of the law is to allow security for witnesses in criminal proceedings, since only in such a case can they, in the event that they are safe, expect to carry out their mission and testify freely before a court, and on that basis the court will be able to assess more comprehensively and comprehensively or to determine the actual situation and, on that basis, to conclude the criminal procedure with a judgment of the merits. Direct pressure on witnesses and intimidation by criminal groups often leads to the Witnesses ’ silence or failure to say what they know, and thus the perpetrators of crimes avoid the time limits of justice. This is a major problem, so we must do everything possible to ensure that the Witness Protection Act, which will apply from 1 July 2006, actually comes to life and will also be effective. One of the essential conditions for the successful implementation of emergency protection measures and protection programmes is that data intended for the implementation of this law must be accessible only to a narrow circle of people who are trustworthy. In order to ensure this, the law provided that, pending an appropriate amendment or addition to the Income Act, the financial resources awarded to protected persons under the Witness Protection Act were also exempt from taxes and contributions. Thus, their personal data would not be available to the wider range of people and thus indirectly potentially reach those with unfair intentions. However, in order to protect the Witnesses, it is necessary to adopt the same provision on the exemption of taxes and contributions to the appropriate arrangements in the Income Act for members of the Commission for the protection of persons at risk. Members of the Commission shall be entitled to meetings and reimbursement of actual costs relating to participation in the work of the Commission. Members of the Commission may also be at risk as disclosure of their identity could also indirectly threaten protected witnesses themselves. Therefore, the same provision as for protected witnesses should be adopted until the relevant amendment of the Income Act is also adopted as members of those Commissions for the protection of persons at risk. In doing so, the reason for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is given and we will therefore support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you. Ambassador Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Also in the Social Democrats Group, we are aware and agree that organised crime, criminal society and international mafia connections cannot be successfully disclosed without the use of a protected witness institution. However, the law must ensure that the Institute not only declares itself, but also practically can fully implement and ensure that witnesses are in any event protected from the abuse of those whose actions are to be freely, independently, objectively witnessed in a court of law. Since such a law does not include members of the Commission who decide on the protection of the witnesses so far, they may themselves be exposed to pressure, which could also lead to the disclosure of the witness, we agree that these amendments and additions to the law will be done in such a way that the members of the Commission are also exempt from the tax, since, if this tax should be imposed, they could lead to disclosure and then the confidentiality of the witnesses would be made more difficult. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you. Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u102	In the New Slovenia Group, we support amendments to the Witness Protection Act in order to ensure the maximum possible degree of confidentiality of data not only to persons who have been granted protection and protection, but also to the data of persons involved in the witness protection process. With the recently adopted Witness Protection Act, we have already provided this for protected persons. This amendment will also ensure this for the members of the Commission who decide on the granting of protection. Their role is therefore very important in the process itself, and it is right that these data, information on the members of the Commission, are known only to the smallest possible circle of people, and thus are protected from the possible influences of both criminal associations and criminal associations, which could exert pressure on them, to whom this status has been granted and to which it has not. The purpose of protecting the confidentiality of the data of the members of the Commission is to amend the law in such a way as to ensure that the exemptions to the tax on funds to be received by the members of the Commission under the Witness Protection Act are subject to the relevant amendment of the Income Act. We will support the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there will be no discussion of the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote today, or no later than 16 hours and 45 minutes, in accordance with the law. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Penal Code. I'm informing you there's two hours and 15 minutes for this check-in point. The draft law was tabled by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš and, in relation to this law, the group of 10 Members, with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I therefore give the floor to the bill's proposer to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! "The sea always pushes me in my mouth, and I'm only five years old." This is one of the stories a man stands for, standing there with a name and surname, with a past, with a childhood. A woman deprived of fundamental human rights, the right to personal dignity and security. Let me recall only and only the highest legal act in our country, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In Article 18, I will quote: "No one shall be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading punishment or conduct." I ask: "Is the victim not subjected to torture, inhuman and degrading behavior, only five years old experiences of oral sex and 35 years later still suppressing nightmares. Article 21 of the Constitution: "The respect of the human personality and its dignity is ensured in criminal and all other judicial proceedings." I ask whether respect for the victim's personality and dignity is guaranteed when the perpetrator of a crime of sexual assault against a five-year-old child is sentenced only to a probationary sentence? Article 34 of the Constitution states: "Everyone has the right to personal dignity and security." Does the victim really have security when the perpetrator of the crime of sexual assault, due to the conditional punishment of stepping on liberty after a prick of a year, ceases to be punished and in the coming years when the victim is still under pressure of the sea, steps against her on the road, or perhaps even worse, teaches even her children one day. Article 35 of the Constitution: "The inviolability of human physical and mental integrity, privacy and personal rights is ensured." How can we talk about the physical and mental integrity of a five - year - old girl who, because of sexual abuse, will never experience a feeling of happy childhood and never understand what it means to be a happy woman? And at the end of article 56 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: "Children enjoy special protection and care. Children enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with their age and maturity. Children shall be given special protection against economic, social, physical and mental and other exploitation and abuse." Such protection is governed by the law. I'm asking because I don't know this kind of law in our country. Moreover, because a five - year - old girl, a victim of sexual violence, could not read this article of the Constitution, she did not know that she was protected from physical, mental, and other exploitation and abuse. And today, 35 years later, he's asking for help from this country. This help, colleagues and colleagues can come only from this house, which we also call the temple of democracy. Thus, respectable that you show or show here and now that we have so much responsibility, understanding and, lastly, warmth that we express our support for the proposed amendments to the Penal Code and allow for further proceedings within the framework of the National Assembly. Otherwise, valued colleagues and colleagues will be informed from this house of democracy that the perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability in Slovenian society are more respected that their dignity is worth more, that the state cares more for their welfare than for children who are most victims of sexual violence and are not able to defend themselves, but need the assistance of the state, namely us, the 90 people sitting in this Chamber. Dear colleagues and colleagues, children are our greatest wealth. That is why I call on you, I really urge you to reconsider and find so much space during this debate, and I will also say in my heart that you take a step towards greater protection for children and other victims of sexual violence. You will thus prove to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and above all to yourself that children are the greatest wealth for you, not only a phrase, but a value worth fighting for. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the proposed law, first of all, I should point out that the problem of suspects and perpetrators of crimes against disputed inviolability, in particular the protection of victims and public awareness of such crimes, requires treatment that does not only cover criminal law measures. With regard to the level of penalties prescribed for offences against sexual inviolability and the assessment that the courts impose too low penalties on perpetrators, the Government explains that the State, by prescribing penalties in the criminal code to some extent, can have an impact on criminal policy. In the 2004 amendment to the Penal Code, the National Assembly also adopted appropriate more stringent penalties for crimes against sexual inviolability. These amendments have entered into force on 5 May 2004, and we believe that, in the context of the proposal under consideration, it is necessary to monitor and analyse the impact of more stringent penalties. However, following an appropriate analysis of that impact on the penalties imposed and handed down by the courts in specific cases, it will be possible to assess whether further amendments to the Criminal Code require even more stringent penalties. With regard to the establishment of a register of convicted offenders against a disputed inviolability which will be accessible to legal or natural persons who show legal interest, we explain that the criminal code already in force lays down the rules relating to criminal records established by the Ministry of Justice. The information contained in the criminal record on unrepeated convictions may also be made available to public authorities, legal persons and private employers in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 105 of the Criminal Code, provided that the legal consequences of the conviction persist and, if justified, the legitimate interest in the law. In view of the fact that data on all convicted offenders are entered in the criminal record, and that also the rules of the criminal code relating to the issuance of criminal records are applicable to all offences, the proposals of the applicant concerning the establishment of a new register for the same purposes may only constitute duplication. With regard to the proposal to verify employees by employers, we stress that the content of the proposed new third paragraph of Article 184 of the Penal Code, which is Article 6 of the proposal of this Act, does not fall within the criminal code. The Rules concerning the Legal Consequences of the Sentence of Criminal Procedure are laid down in Chapter 8 of the General Work. Thus, Article 99 provides that convictions for certain offences or certain penalties may result in the legal effect of the termination or loss of certain rights or the prohibition of the acquisition of certain rights. In accordance with the third paragraph of the same Article, the legal consequences of a conviction may only be prescribed by law and arise under the law by which they are prescribed. The use of the word relationship "with the law" means an appropriate sectoral law, since the legislator would use the word "with this law" if the criminal code was meant to be. Only sector-specific legislation regarding certain professions can determine the necessary specific quality of those persons who will carry out these professions. These special qualities or criteria may also include the requirement that such a person should not be legally convicted of certain offences. The Penal Code lays down the legal basis for ensuring that sectoral laws relating to the acquisition of certain employment or occupations provide as a condition that candidates for employment must not be brought to justice or must not be convicted of certain offences. Therefore, it can also be stipulated in the sectoral legislation that candidates for employment must not be legally convicted of crimes against sexual inviolability. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment of the penal code.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you, for your performance. However, I must warn you, Comrade Robert Marolt, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, that it is the task of the legislator to determine what content goes into which law. The legislator is a national council, you are only a representative of the executive branch. Please take into account the division of power under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue the debate. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much again for your word. Sexual abuse and exploitation of children are actually present everywhere, regardless of ethical principles, economic and social situation. In society, we are witnessing an increasing incidence of violence and intolerance. However, the information available suggests that violence or the number of crimes against sexual inviolability in our country is on the rise. Increasingly, there are more and more severe forms of such violence, and more and more children are among the victims. But the penalties imposed are, hand to heart, shamefully low. The fact is that, in addition to inadequate legislation, judges are helping to a large extent, with 73% of them deciding on the lower limit of the prescribed penalty. Sexual violence is not and must not be a mere problem for individuals, so it is imperative to speak out loud and to develop such a practice, with the help of state policy, which is primarily intended to help victims. Unfortunately, it is too often that, on behalf of or under the pretense of human rights, the perpetrators are further protected, while the victim also becomes a victim of the system. The main basis for amending the Penal Code is to protect and, at the same time, stress the importance of human dignity and consequently the need for inviolability in terms of the emotional and physical integrity of the victims, especially when talking about the child. The fact is, the perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability are mentally and physically severely harmed and permanently marked by their actions. Psychiatrists, psychologists, and psychotherapists claim that the victims are never the same as they were before they were abused. The lives of many victims can be summed up to be the result of traumas that mark their lives. Victims change their attitude toward people, self-images, sex. In its internal pain and humiliation, the victim of sexual crime is affected by the consequences of the abuse of his or her dignity and personal integrity. Physical injuries are less pronounced. I attended a seminar on child abuse in Sweden during the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe days ago. It would be useful to learn from examples and good practices, but above all the facts are important. 80% of abuse occurs in the home environment. Perpetrators are often the ones most trusted by children. As we speak of paedophilia, the need for health care is increasingly mentioned. In the case of pedophiles, recidivism is often 70 %, i.e. recidivism or recurrence of crime. For pedophiles, there is a strong need for contact with children, sexual excitement in these contacts, impaired control and inability to communicate satisfactorily with adults. It is significant that they deny the crime, minimize their own responsibility. Countries around the world do not deal with the total rehabilitation of these perpetrators, but tend to their complete isolation. In the world, models for dealing with perpetrators have adapted to the rise in crime. Slovenia today does not have a rehabilitation programme, does not have a psychosocial assistance system within prisons, nor does it have an approach to monitor and assist victims of sexual abuse. Children rarely say they've been abused. Many abused children do not show signs of mental distress during the period of abuse; the consequences occur later, much later. Abuse victims are girls and boys, and the most common age for sexually abused children is between 6 and 8 years. Children often suppress the event in themselves at first, and later in life this suppression can cause serious problems. 75% of survivors of sexual abuse have problems at work, 56% of economic problems, 52% of victims have secondary health problems in the hospital. A large majority of all victims have problems with social inclusion. And last but not least, all adults, especially children, have the right to protection. In 2005, when this law was completed, 53 convicts were imprisoned in Slovenian prisons due to an act under Article 183 of the Penal Code, a sexual assault on a person under 15 years of age. On average, their sentence was only three and a half years long. Once again, I will repeat the fact that most of the sexual abuse of the hidden remains. In doing so, I wonder, in fact, what is the value of human life in our country, in the Republic of Slovenia, of its mental injury and why judges in such crimes decide in 72 per cent for the lowest penalties. Last but not least, these are crimes committed by direct intent under the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. And allow me, article 17 of this code says, a crime is committed by premeditation, if the perpetrator was aware of his act and wanted to do it, or if he realized that his conduct could result in a prohibited consequence, he agreed that such a consequence would arise. Since the practice is different and unfortunately, the legislation is too weak, we are, last but not least, reminded by experts who in practice face sexual violence, sexual abuse, including prosecutors, social workers, psychologists, even judges, it is necessary to make changes in the area where they can. Once again, the Republic of Slovenia has fallen in the area of protection and assistance to victims of sexual abuse. The country's approach is bad if you want it wrong. I already mentioned that the basic guide in preparing the novel penal law was to look through the eyes of the victim. The Novela brings three important changes, the first amendment is the lengthening of prosecution. In fact, I have already mentioned when it comes to child sexual abuse, which often suppresses abuse for so-called screen. Because he does not get over it, even if he does not remember it during a period of time because of the act of oppression from the subconscious, such a person later has serious consequences in life. Such a person needs help 10, 15, 20 years after having been sexually abused. Our legal system in the context of the limitation period speaks of five years after age. I'll give you an example. If a child is abused at the age of five in the home environment about abuse, even though he does not understand that abuse has taken place, he cannot speak to those who have abused his trust and security. "When I was a little girl, I liked to sing, "since this abuse happened, "I've completely shut up, "the story of one of the abused girls. Such a child with a painful experience lives on. After 10 years, at 15 years of age, there will be a period of puberty. The child, now a teenager, is still confined to himself, also insecure to the environment. After 20 years, at the age of 25, still with an unending experience of sexual violence, such a person is actually trying to regulate life in accordance with the values that do not last exist in our culture. You're actually your own family. I believe it's hard for you to understand what an abused person, full of mistrust in life, is to create your own family. All we can say is thank God we don't have that kind of experience. When a new family, if at all possible, stands on its foundations, it is time to seek help, with itself, with a partner, at the age of 30, 35, even later. The amendment proposed by law gives victims the right and the opportunity to receive this assistance. Under the current legislation, once again, the limitation period is limited to five years after age. Let me also remind the Government, which, in its opinion on the law, asks itself whether it is reasonable to extend the limitation period only to ensure that the court finds that, due to the passage of time, it is not objectively possible to prove. I meant when I read that the government was joking. In criminal proceedings, we also know about these qualified experts, experts are called. Dear Government Representative, you point out that the proceedings before the court are arduous in terms of victims of sexual crime. Victims want help, they want rights, they want opportunities to seek justice in court. Their dignity was also taken from the victims when they were abused. And you won't say today and now that the country has to take it away from them. Another important area we are touching is the punishment. In explanation of this change, the Government relied on increased penalties in 2004 under the Criminal Code for offences of sexual assault against a person under 15 years of age. I will ask the question: Is it really appropriate to impose a penalty policy on the fact that prison sentences are still being imposed at the lower limit, that the penalty should be raised from 6 months to 1 year? I mentioned that in Slovenia there were 53 convicts in prison for crimes of sexual assault against a person under the age of 15, while their sentence was only three and a half years on average. From the point of view of general and special prevention, we justify an increase in penalties in the Slovenian National Party. It's a crime that has to weigh more than stolen items in the biggest robberies. A healthy logic to finally know if the rapist in the environment in which he raped was removed instead of one year for five years, I deliberately placed a lower limit. The penalties now prescribed and the proposed changes will be safe for potential victims instead of one year before the same person for at least five years. And if you want, I'm not talking about pedophiles because there are specifics, even rapists are affected by the fact that they have at least five years in prison instead of one year. Sexual abuse also concerns the sociocultural norms and values of our society. I hope that the tolerance currently prevailing in our country within the framework of criminal policy will not be taken into account today. The next step is arrogance. And this is very far from a more quality and human-friendly society, to which everyone, including this government, is expected to weigh so heavily. The third change is the register. Clearly, there is no specific record in our country of crimes against sexual inviolability at all. There is no record of offences of sexual assault against a person under 15 years of age, nor of the offence of sexual abuse of a weak person. This is not a specific duplication, and I stress this, it is not a special duplication as stated by the government or the government representative. It is the necessary protection of children and adolescents. The proposed innovation in the context of the so-called amendments to the register undoubtedly provides a legal basis for greater protection of children and adolescents. And I'll read the amendment. In the context of Article 84, we add a new third paragraph, which reads: "The employer who employs or otherwise cooperates with the people involved in the educational, educational, protective or guardianial process is obliged to verify each of them in the so-called register of offences referred to in Chapter 19 which is as a sub-law within the domain of the competent ministry." According to legal experts, such a register would not be disputed and would not systematically interfere with human rights of convicted offenders of crimes against sexual inviolability. And I'm not gonna lose words anymore. The government puts itself in a position of contradiction. I hope that you have listened to the explanation given by the government representative today specifically regarding duplication of data. I sent a question to the Ministry of Education this April. So that I don't read it completely, let me just summarize this question. In addition to the mandatory criteria, the school indicated the optional content to be met by a candidate for primary school principal, such as a declaration of impunity, namely the paper which a citizen may receive from a so-called register or an existing criminal record maintained by the Ministry. Since this law is not explicitly provided for, there is no legal basis for this in our country, the Ministry has annulled the call because the school, listen, unlawfully wanted to obtain data from the applicant for the principal of the primary school. That's the ministry's response. As far as an integrated approach is concerned, some warn, the Slovenian National Party is certainly one, and I hope to say, the only one who has made it clear in this mandate alone that she does not care that she is an important person, including the individual who is powerless to ask for the assistance of the State. This criminal code is only one of the important steps in the integrated approach of prevention and, if you want, of curatives. And let me remind you, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group has not launched an integrated approach today, 30 May 2006, but, as amended by the Penal Code, Member Peče has already triggered the issue of sexual violence in our country in the previous term. Action has also been followed through some media, budget amendments, parliamentary issues, parliamentary initiatives, concrete proposals. The Slovenian national party is clearly aware of its roles and moral responsibilities. I hope you'll be aware of her, too. We will certainly support the proposed amendments in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The latest amendments to the Penal Code do not come at a very remote time, but only some good year ago, but there is a need, or a proposal for a change, in the direction of strengthening and in the direction of better and greater protection of young people, who are particularly exposed to violations of sexual inviolability, as well as all others, of course. Let me say that I am convinced that there is no one who is unaware of the problem of such offences, that there is probably no one who would oppose the consistent and rigorous implementation of the legislation already in force and that we are probably all condemning such reprisals. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the importance of the open question and are therefore wondering whether the path is being offered to those who are solving the problem. The substance of the proposal has already been put forward, in the direction of tightening or increasing the penalty, towards extending the limitation of the limitation period and towards the need for a new register. With regard to out-of-date deadlines, and personally in the Group of Members, I think it is justified to request that this be extended and a poor argument from the Government's point of view, which has rejected the possibility or acceptance of such an extension of limitation periods. With regard to the tightening of penalties, we agree with the government's position and feel that this is unnecessary. We remember, too, that recently these penalties have been quite severe and that this diapazone, as far as the level of punishment is concerned, is still very open, so even higher penalties are possible than they have been imposed so far. With regard to the request for a new register, we also feel that we do not need it. In particular, it seems unnecessary for us to establish that employers are required to check the criminal record of a person before employment. We find it particularly important to think about what is said in the introduction on the basis of why this should be necessary. You will find in the introduction that this is mainly necessary because the labour market is opening up and threats that foreigners can also find more and more work with us in Slovenia. Such a determination, or at least an explanation, would seem to us to be discriminatory, not the most favoured by foreigners, or if we put it more firmly, it is xenophobic ambition. Nor can we accept those hints that suggest that even physical punishment, either as castrations or those who steal something, might be welcome by cutting hands. Although they still have this around the world, there are pre-modern conditions, and these are pre-modern societies. The care of the young was at the forefront. I think that young people really need to be cared for in a better and more active way. Of course, it gives me no peace to remember how we care for young people with another law, which is advocated by the same proponents, where we would like to put young people into a house and into a family where, as stated, 80% of these crimes, which we are now talking about and who would like to be punished more. Let me also remind you that it has just come out or that we have a report from the prosecution on the table, which on many sides is about what is really going on, what are the trends and what might need to be done. That is why the opportunity for us to discuss this report will be to speak further. From my brief interpretation of our attitude to the proposal, it follows that we judge that the proposal for a law is not such as to give it our support. However, we are opposed to interpreting that those who do not support it advocate too much punishment for those who commit crimes. All we need is consistency in protecting and punishing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you. Before we move on to the representative of the next parliamentary group, allow me to ask all future debaters who will talk about this point and all other points so that they do not attribute to each law the content that this law does not have. Please allow me to make another comment. Please all future debaters, talk about the law and not the content that is not in the marriage. Comrade Dimitrij Kovačič, you will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope that I will be allowed to express my position, as we believe in our Group of Members, and that there will be no critical assessment of the Chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware that the area in question is very sensitive and has not been dealt with most appropriately in Slovenia so far. In fact, some inappropriate solutions have been preserved under the Criminal Code since Yugoslavia's criminal law, in which human life has not been placed as the highest value, which has not resulted in the most rigorous sanctioning of crimes against life and the body. However, much of this has already been corrected by some amendments to criminal law, but we are aware that it is not entirely. Notwithstanding the fact that it is necessary to say that the last amendment to the Penal Code concerning the sanctioning of such offences has substantially exacerbated the penalties. In our view, the problematic practice of the courts, which often give an extremely high weight to the various mitigating circumstances of the perpetrators and the underweight consequences for the victims and also for the safety of all citizens and citizens when it comes to truly extreme cases, leaves these consequences far too far behind. For this reason, we agree with the initiatives to study, evaluate, and in extreme cases where the worst crimes against life and the body are at stake. However, according to our assessment, it is necessary to examine the entire criminal code, not just one part of it. We represent the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to tighten criminal sanctions for the worst crimes against the body and life and to pay particular attention to the recast of criminal law to crimes committed against minors. However, since the proposed law regulates only a narrow area of crime against life and the body, we believe that it would be right to review and evaluate the entire area of the criminal code and also the whole area of such crimes, i.e. crimes against life and the body, and not just one segment of this area. In this way, the area in general, as well as various criminal offences within the same area, could be regulated in a coordinated manner, because otherwise a narrower segment would not be aligned with the others and would somehow fall out of the concept of the whole area and the whole law. So, as I have already mentioned, the proposal to regulate only one narrow segment undermines coordination between crimes and would cause more damage than benefits. Therefore, we cannot support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, but we expect the government to review the entire area governed by the criminal code, evaluate it and, on this basis, prepare appropriate and appropriate additions or amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u114	Your Honor! Respected first-signed lawmaker, the topic you open with colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, is very sensitive and it is difficult to speak about without emotion, even difficult to speak in a way that does not avoid looking through the eyes of the victim. At the same time, emotions must not lead us to sober or rational thinking. And in our group, we are fully aware that sexual abuse and exploitation of children is an act of evil, the worst, everywhere, regardless of ethical principles, religious definition, economic and social situation. We are also aware that more measures are needed to prevent and mitigate violence and that criminal legislation can only be one of them. By the way, the law on the prevention of domestic violence broke out of government plans. But if we are talking about a just punishment and an equivalent for a crime committed, it is likely that no punishment will ever be severe enough or quantifiable, but these are ethical, not legal questions, today we are talking about legal issues. And when, in the previous mandate, the Slovenian National Party, with the first-signed Mr Pecett, tabled similar proposals as this time, we did not agree with them in the Liberal Democracy, but we also did not agree with the existing situation, so we proposed to the government to prepare amendments and amendments to the Penal Code so that it would raise the penalties at stake against sexual inviolability in an appropriate and deliberate manner. Because we have assessed that we should, in particular, increase the lower limit of punishment, because unfortunately our courts have imposed penalties mainly at the first third of the sentence at stake, and the increase in the lower limit is thus intended to force the judges to be severely punished. The problem was mainly at the level of the sentence imposed, and if you remember in 2004, it was corrected by, say, sexual abuse of a weak person and sexual assault on a person. Under 15 years of age, the sentence of at least six months to five years has changed to a sentence of between 1 and 8 years. Now you're proposing from 5 to 15 years. Or for the worst form of crime, if it is committed by a teacher, educator, caregiver, priest and doctor in view of the abuse of his position, the limit has changed from one to eight years in force from one to 10 years, you propose up to 15 years and so on. In short, the effects of these changes, which were established in 2004, were not yet evalable and could be followed or evaluated. Representatives, the profession here has very different opinions and we have followed, or more uniformly and not differently, I apologize, we have followed the opinion of the profession, for example, representatives of the Institute of Criminology believe that the increase in punishment is the last measure, which of all is least useful and least prevents these reprisals. Those who face prisoners in prisons daily, however, argue that the imposition of extremely long sentences has not been proven to prevent the services of the worst crimes. In the Liberal Democracy, we are opposed to the law in work or law, but we are also opposed to the work that introduces special records. That is, the criminal record, because we believe that they are not technically completed or that other articles of the Code, as well as other provisions laying down the way in which the criminal record is kept, should also be amended in order for them to be fully implemented. But in such records there are great dangers, especially if we understand them in terms of what your colleague has advocated, Mr Victory, quoted as saying that the lists of pedophiles should be made public and made publicly available to every parent who goes to kindergarten, school, education and the church, that they will know what they are and where they are and who are pedophiles. These records can, of course, be dangerous if I do not point out that part of these records, which has already been explained today, as far as the established records we have in Slovenia are concerned. And there would be these specific records. I am talking about those problems that could arise with such records, possible public records, as understood by your colleague Victory, Mr Tribality, where certain stigmatisations could occur, even irreparable damage, if innocent people could be found on such lists. We know the cases, I mention those from England when it even occurred that these lists made them black or almost publicly lynched even completely innocent people who had the same name and last name as pedophiles from the lists. Furthermore, we know that these records would be eternal, they would not run out of time as they are now, and would also be considered employers, which could, of course, prevent in certain cases the possible rehabilitation of persons and, as I say, may also stigmatise individuals who, either unjustly or after possible diversions in life, would no longer be a threat to society. It is interesting, once again, to point out that those changes that took place in 2004 have not yet been reviewed in practice and possibly, especially if I rely once again on the opinion of the profession and those who often or who face up to criminal policy in their professions, it would be necessary to think and follow, but not in a way that is too emotional to jump into solutions that could also cause inappropriate effects in our society as recklessly as possible. In this context, we cannot support a solution, even if we understand the intention and concern of the proposer, who comes again within his client with solutions for a substantially more rigorous lifting of penalties in this area, as well as other solutions that we believe would not remedy this problem, as an exclusionary and one rare way or only one way to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Member Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Offences against sexual inviolability are certainly among the most repulsive, especially when committed against minors or with the sexual abuse of a weak person. The actions are hard to prove. The process of proof for the injured person is painful and the consequences of the crime service leave frequent consequences throughout life. The public's attention to such a crime is understandable on a case-by-case basis, and it is almost impossible for everyone who wants to know about it. In addition, efforts and reflections on what to do so that their numbers do not increase, without returnees are very common, not only in the profession, but also between citizens and citizens. These issues are also linked to the increasing attention of the public to the functioning of the courts in general. With increasing criticism of the work of the courts, there are many times that are not objective enough, but many times that are very justified. New social circumstances, increased social disparities, greater uncertainty about the significant number of citizens and citizens for their own perspective, globalisation and better information to the public about the crimes committed at home and abroad have also increased the sense of danger and insufficient activities of the State for our own security. From here, there's a lot of thinking about what to do. If we follow the polls carried out by the media, we must say that the vast majority of citizens and citizens believe that criminal policy is inadequate, that the penalties are too low. There is a great deal of even the idea of increasing the maximum limit to the possible sentence imposed, all the way down to the death penalty. In such circumstances, it is understandable that, with the best of intentions, more or less pretentious proposals for amendments to the legislation of the Member States are also emerging in order to be attractive to the public. Such proposals should have an impact on the stricter punishment of the perpetrators of such offences and, in the opinion of the applicants, also on the general prevention of crime services. The majority of such proposals are favoured by the public opinion, even more so. Many think and even believe that, especially with stricter punishment, beneficial effects can be achieved; otherwise, professional thinking thinks, for the most part, that by stricter punishment the effects on more favourable crime prevention cannot be achieved. For centuries and more it has been known that the more severe penalties and sentences imposed, including life imprisonment or even death sentences, in the history of crime and punishments have generally failed to achieve the expected effects. There are known cases when it was the other way around. All of this is right to take into account when we decide on the proposed law, especially the fact that two years ago, with amendments to the penal code, we significantly extended the penalties at stake also for such offences, for crimes against sexual inviolability, and that two years is certainly not enough time for an objective assessment of the effects of such behaviour. However, without particular reasons, the amendment of the penal code is not a prudent act. Any intervention, if a criminal code constitutes an entire and mutually balanced penalty at risk, shall constitute an intervention of unjustified differences which are not useful for the implementation of criminal law. With regard to issues related to human rights and, on the other hand, to various forms of repression, special attention is needed for society and especially for Members and Members of Parliament, and it is right to exercise it with the utmost care. I expect to know her, Members and Members of Parliament, as well as to be responsible in the case of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to all of you who are accompanying this session! In the New Slovenia Group, we have examined in detail the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the penal code, in particular with regard to the status of the victim in criminal proceedings and criminal proceedings, and also taking into account the fact that the victims of these offences are mainly women or girls. The proposal to increase prison sentences for crimes against sexual inviolability is not new. The majority of the positions of the profession to address this issue are known in the way proposed by the proposer. It is up to us politicians not to politicize this issue. Policy has already responded adequately to these problems and legislation has been amended to extend the limitation period to five years after age. This means that if the act was committed to a girl when she was five years old, the act was not obsolete at the age of 23, following the existing law. In addition, changes were made simultaneously in the area of prescribed penalties for crimes against sexual inviolability. A stricter range of prescribed prison sentences has been established, which means for judges the possibility of facilitating the transfer of an abstract assessment by the legislator on the rejection of a particular criminal offence, given the specific circumstances of the offence and given the specific situation. Indeed, the criminal sanction imposed is essentially a transfer of the specific circumstances of criminal conduct to an abstract legal provision and therefore its height depends on the rejection of the offence itself. In Nova Slovenija, we are aware that these crimes are crimes which, because of their characteristics, cause a different, sharper public response to other crimes because of their rejection. However, we would like to point out that the discussions and individual contributions from the media, as well as the analysis by the applicant in her introductory presentation, are often based on the analysis of the penalties actually imposed, i.e. the penalties imposed by the judge in the particular proceedings. However, in Nova Slovenija we believe that before we go to change legislation, we will look at what the law already says - so what is the actual penalty under the existing law. I stress this in particular because the analysis and statistics on the type and level of criminal sanctions imposed show that the courts are more than exclusively interfering with high prison sentences; therefore, it is certainly the basis both in the legislation and, as already mentioned, in the rejection and nature of the acts themselves. Statistics also show that in cases of sexual violence, the perpetrator is mostly known. Therefore, the perpetrators are, in particular, persons who are known or recognized by the victim, and it would be rather unreasonable to follow the proposal of the applicant and to determine that prosecution in cases where the act was committed before the age of majority does not expire until, if calculated, the 43rd year of the victim or the injured person and not, as it seems to me, a misleading public opinion was given by the proposer when he summed up, if the act was committed to the girl at the age of five, this amendment at the age of 30. No, they suggested that this act would not expire until the age of 43. Otherwise, this provision would be rather irresponsible for those involved in the criminal process itself, since it would be almost impossible to detect a crime, whether committed or not, within that distance from the time of the act, in particular with regard to the enforcement of the means of proof. Thus, in the parliamentary group, we cannot go beyond criminal and other research, which also clearly shows the relatively small overall preventive impact of high penalties and prison sentences imposed on perpetrators or potential perpetrators. That is why we think that the amendment of the legislation, as proposed by the proposer, is more than an experimentation, but we support all the Government's efforts to reform criminal law as a whole, but on a perfectly well-founded basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u119	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Ambassador Franco Kangler. He's not here. I give my word to the MPs. Majda Potter. She's not here. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll still have time at the end as a proponent, so then I'll shrug. However, since I have heard quite a few deceptions, I would like to highlight some of the untruths or truths that are written in the context of the novel of the Penal Code. First of all, I would like to ask a colleague who, in her last position, said that they have calculated a very small preventive effect when we are talking about raising penalties. You know, I'll say, if we can only protect one victim with this, then we've done practically everything, then we've done what I want to do as a proponent and what my fellow Members want to do within the Slovenian National Party Group. Another thing I'd like to point out. In the largest coalition party, they say that in the context of amendments to the Penal Code they will go to further studies. You know how long we've been reminding you of the need to adopt fundamental changes under the Penal Code. After six years, they note the need for further analyses, additional studies. Buying time and fooling the public! And a colleague who immediately followed me in his presentation told me that this law spoke of physical punishment. I would advise that you are really everyone who talks about it, reading the law. The law, once again, is good, the law is not the least supported by experts. Here I will point out that, according to my opinion, experts are not just lawyers, you know, also lawyers, judges who, after basic education, lawyers, point out when deciding on these matters, when deciding on divorces that are less important than sexual violence, do not have social, psychological knowledge and ask professionally, not legal expertise, there is more expertise in our country to help.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you. I can't give you a word because you haven't been appointed, and you know so much about the rules of procedure. We continue the debate. The next on the list of applicants is Mrs Eva Irgle. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Comrade Barovich, allow me to lead the session. Thank you. [[She's not in the hall.]] Member Bogdan Barovic has the floor, I apologize, Bosniak Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! Today we are talking about the worst crimes, the most heinous crimes, and it is sad that some in this country are defending the perpetrators of these crimes. They're not perpetrators, they're repulsive. It's about victims who can't defend themselves. It's not about me. It's not about you. We can bounce, we can hit back. A five-year-old kid can't do that. The other thing that's sad is that there are fewer than 20 of us present. The third sad thing is that some parliamentary groups have taken more time in alcoholism than in the sexual inviolability of our children. Full mouth of words about upbringing, full mouth of uneducatedness, full mouth of anything else about children. When it comes to their sexual inviolability, when you come to a pay phone, you say you agree on everything, but you can't support it. We all agreed that the country is the one who will lead the education that will protect these most precious beings in this country, not least ours and your successors in this Chamber. We're all fleeting, and let's not let them be destroyed in their roots, but that's exactly what you're doing today. Why the register? Someone said it wasn't necessary to mark someone. Why raise and educate registers? Because from where I come from or where I was elected, the pedophile who did this at school comes to primary school! But it wasn't his first crime. He's already committed the same crime at another primary school, somewhere else. And if we could stop it, this little girl that happened to her - if there was a register - could have prevented her from having a nightmare and her trauma. Today, you all say that such a register is not necessary or even harmful if we ask for information on impunity for a person. The European most notorious case of pedophilia, do you know where it happened? In France. You know why they got him?Because Belgium checked when he wanted to get a job, his impunity, his work. That's why. That's why we need a register. Last but not least, if we are talking about pedophilia and perpetrators and the fact that the state is already offering resocialisation to all perpetrators of crimes, I tell you that it is my opinion that these people do not deserve it. But we have to make it possible for the victims. And this country just can't do it. When you spoke, it is difficult to regulate the penal code, of course, for six years by the Slovenian National Party, we are trying to convince this to any other government that the criminal code must be regulated in a complex manner. Not this one or any other government has allowed it. It's a shame to lose words about the Ombudsman. It opposes the law even when we send it in coordination with the other parliamentary groups. A miracle from a man, you could say that he knows what the proposal will be, and he opposes it even before he's put in, even before he's coordinated and even before he can see it. It's a miracle from a man you're defending here. And I can tell you, it's a shame to protect people who commit such vile crimes. Someone was talking about physical punishment. I don't know if you've read the title of the law. There's not a word in the content of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you. Maybe there is something that needs to be cleared around this register. In European countries or in some countries they have such a register - they have a register, but not the register you are proposing. However, all countries are very careful to regulate who has access to the lists and what is the purpose of this register. I reiterate that there is a risk of further stigmatisation of individuals and of further impeding rehabilitation. In doing so, I would like to point out that in Slovenia the rate of return, as I know, is very low, 13.4% of the crimes are repeated in Slovenia in the field of pedophilia. In the United States of America, it's 15%. But if I repeat, we have a criminal record in Slovenia, and here we are facing a proposal for a specific record that does not have a time limit in the sense that convictions are kept all the time, because the essence of the existing criminal record is that after a certain period, after a certain number of years of conviction, if the convicted person does not commit a new crime; deletes it. However, according to today's proposal, the records should remain indelible and, for example, these people could not be employed in certain professions, irrespective of their intermediate, different status or proven different behaviour. In addition, let me draw attention to some more legal interpretation or nonconsistentness in the records. You want employers to have an eye on this record in addition to your parents. The Penal Code already makes this possible, but at the same time we do not believe that the criminal code is a provision which could, in the event of a criminal offence, establish the employer's obligation to look into criminal records, which means that such legal consequences of a conviction, such as the prohibition of certain professions that have been exposed or the prohibition of the continuation of such professions, must exist in the field legislation governing these professions. And this is legislation in the fields of education, health care, social care. That is why, as I know, the government committed itself in 2005 to proposing appropriate changes to these professions. However, such a provision does not fall within the criminal code, but, of course, I reiterate, once again the question of the meaning of double records. Once again, I stress that the European Union does not require Member States to do so in the proposal for a framework decision on the exchange of data in criminal records between the Member States currently in preparation, but rather leaves it to itself to determine this regime, as it seems necessary in its ethical, democratic, moral and legal categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a sad fact that there is almost no supporter in this Chamber to support these changes. He's not here, he's not here. The child cannot defend himself, and it is often in judicial proceedings that the child becomes the victim or accused. There are too few penalties that leave lasting consequences on children, which is what you all agree on. However, there is no one who actually thinks clearly about it, and the question arises why. Why can't we think smart? Maybe it's because it happens in high societies because it's like this because it's a problem of the church because it's a problem of high circles because it's what some people want because they have money that has prestige, that they have the opportunity to do it -- but that's why you're protecting these people? Our law states that the criminal acts of the 180s, 181, 182, and 183 of this Code are entered in the criminal record or in the register of convicted offenders, which is administered by the competent Ministry. When I listened to the explanation of the Social Democrats, it is shameful, ladies and gentlemen, to protect someone who would flee from other European countries to Slovenia, to find work, in some society perhaps ballet or some school, to flee from a legal conviction, to find employment here, and the interpretation of the Social Democrats is: we cannot be like that to foreigners. We can be so stepmotherly toward our children that we don't even offer them legal protection, even the Ombudsman is a little immune from time to time in this matter. In short, what is happening in this room today is simply an incredible change. It is amazing that you do not understand your mission and that you are not so judgmental that in this sensitive darkness you would actually be truly human Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Franz Pukšič to the floor, he is not here. Member Miran Potch has the word, he's gone. The word has Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you. Summary. DeSUS - agrees that the horror of the actions defined in our bill is contrary to the law. The SDS - rulings agree with the initiatives, but they do not support the law. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia agrees with the proposals but opposes the law because of the evaluation of the effects. Social Democrats see people as attracted to the bill that we want severe punishment for pedophiles, so we are attractive - wonderful, thank you very much! New Slovenia speaks, these are collections to experiment. Dear Members and Members, Slovenians and Slovenians, we are experimenting in this House, we want to be attractive, we do not know what kind of child to rape, and everyone else will study the laws and after careful examinations they will find it necessary to harmonise the whole legislation and everyone else, so you have expressed yourself that you really care about what is going on in this country. Okay! Harmonize laws, colleagues and colleagues, from all parliamentary groups, criminals rape children, commit violence and enjoy this co-existence! Shame on you all who say we're attractive to people. We're attractive to people because we just want to say that we're proposing a law that will exacerbate the most heinous act, sexual violence against minors? Who dares to express that? You have children, you have grandchildren, be healthy, be happy, live well and hope, and I want, and I want nothing bad ever to happen. And your political appeal to people will be clear this moment and now. There are magnetograms, and if the honesty of the media is anywhere, they will publish them, every word you say.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you. I invite the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the floor. [[He's quitting.]] I would like to invite you, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, to the floor. If you don't mind, we have a habit of talking behind the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Today we have heard that you are all in favour of change, but in fact no one in the same breath supports the proposed changes. That's a really interesting point of view. We have also heard the negative position of the government. The Government assesses that the rules on criminal law relating to offences against sexual inviolability are appropriate. And I'm asking if it's really appropriate for a man to sexually abuse an 11-year-old girl to be punished under the legal minimum. Under extenuating circumstances, however, the defendant has not yet been punished; he has not been particularly violent; he must also take care of a 7-year-old daughter. Even though it is a child who has been changed by such an unpleasant experience, it takes away moments of happy life and causes deep mental wounds! Is it really an appropriate arrangement when the victim of childhood sexual abuse during the entire process of sexual abuse only speaks about it in middle years, 30, 40 years, and lacks the possibility of prosecution because she missed a five-year maturity after adulthood? Last but not least, if an appropriate arrangement is required by the primary school on behalf of child protection to confirm that the applicant for principal is unpunished, the minister rejects the invitation because the school unlawfully wanted to obtain information from that person because it cannot obtain it by law because the law is not in our country. Dear government representatives and other fellow Members, it is not a matter of non-derogable data, it is an obvious filling of the legal void in the framework of the prevention. Last but not least, the government refers in its opinion to the very prevention which, I agree, is better than punishment. Clearly, though, he is unaware of the meaning of the words spoken, or he will do little for it, hand to heart. To illustrate the attitude of this government or policy toward the issue or problem of sexual abuse in our country. When we wanted to receive information from the parliamentary group yesterday, on which the government does not last introduce us in its opinion on this bill, I quote in my opinion of 20.4.2006: "When it is possible that the court has imposed a low sentence on the perpetrator according to the law, in a specific case as the guardian of public interest, the state prosecutor who has the possibility of complaining about the height or type of penalties imposed will have to appear." End of quote. We have been politely dissuaded by the State Prosecutor's Office that the latter do not keep statistics on complaints according to the nature of the crimes. There is therefore no data on sexual violence in this institution. It's getting worse! At the information center of the state prosecutor's office, they even boldly reasoned that no one had yet come up with this idea. This is the attitude of this government to this problem! Again, I ask whether 26 questions sent and concrete initiatives sent, with concrete proposals, are constantly pointing out the need to introduce a so-called multidisciplinary approach to dealing with and working with victims of sexual violence, warning that in the Republic of Slovenia, from state institutions, health care, law enforcement authorities and so on, today it is not possible to obtain official information on the extent to which sexual violence is the victim - or is it not a clear indicator enough that something needs to be done? But not tomorrow or 15 years from now! Today! Non-profit organisations are active and, by means of only comparable data from abroad, they clearly tell you that 1 in 4 is a girl and 1 in 6 is a boy under the age of 15 who is victims of sexual violence. At the end of last year, I received a positive response to the proposed amendments in an informal consultation with the Minister. I'm so honest. The Minister's initial concerns were only around the so-called register, because changes are necessary because it is necessary to take a step towards protecting the victim, protecting its integrity, dignity and thus show what kind of society we are. At that time, the minister gave hope, not just to me, but to the victims of such violence who do not receive legal aid or protection from that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I'll give each of the five interviewees five minutes. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you. I will use the expression that I will be attractive to the public - this is what the Social Democrats have said. I'm going to be attractive to the public because all I'm going to say is that you're going to make the legal definition and the wonderful ideas of how we're going to study comprehensive criminal legislation, and we're going to come before the mother and the father of the abused child. Just because, that's all! I'm also talking to the government. I agree that the penal code needs to be defined, but somewhere has to be started and it needs to be started where it is most painful. And the most painful of all is the smile of a Member, one of the 13 who is now in this Chamber, who is going out. That's what I was gonna say. It's easy to wave with laws in front of people, human accidents with laws and papers, we're not going to end it. Here we offer to start somewhere to solve the most tragic fates of our lives. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš did not try to think and because of her appeal, she collected data, accurate data, some she does not even get, which is the greatest shame. And when you collect them after one year, when you draw attention to the mistakes that the whole world is talking about, the whole of Europe and the whole of Slovenia, we make fun of this national assembly, that it is necessary to solve the problem comprehensively and that it must be included in a comprehensive solution to the integrated problem of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia and that all criminal provisions must be harmonised! You're coordinating what you're doing! I don't know how you're going to reconcile the tragedies that are happening, but these tragedies are written on papers that we have in our archives. There is no appeal, there is no political game, there is the truth that takes place for six years, and I would be happy if it were said on behalf of - not the Slovenian National Party -, we totally care which party is the one that can stand up, and proudly says, "We are fighting for these rights for six years." Who can get up and say that? A Slovenian national party, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Although I think at least three of them came forward, but no matter what, I'm going to say it in a shorter time than I've been assigned because I don't need it that much. In fact, today's debate has been fairly charged with some emotional charge, and whenever it is, it can't be all that is said, even completely objective, and it has also been quite pervasive with demagogy. I will not go into this alone now, nor will I comment on certain specific cases listed above, because it is very difficult to judge the specific cases that have been heard with one or two sentences and try to judge them as objectively as possible in view of all that the Court has judged and reviewed comprehensive material in all these cases. And of course, we also usually say that the courts are independent and independent in dealing with and deciding in specific cases, so that it would probably not be the most correct in this respect. In the introductory presentation, I expressed my understanding of the reason why the proposer was led to draft amendments and to supplement the penal code, as well as an understanding of the content likely to be needed in future certain amendments and amendments. However, I would only mention the following, given that I was also mentioned in the debate by the applicant, if the largest parliamentary party wants only to study and then, on the basis of this study, do something in the future. I would like to say that, in view of the latest amendment to the Penal Code adopted in 2004, the effects of this new amendment, which has exacerbated the sanctioning of such offences, have not even been submitted, since, as you know, the offence is being assessed under the law that was in force during the service. And most of the cases that are still under consideration today have been made before this novel. In such a way that the actual effects of the change in criminal policy in this area cannot yet be assessed. And I have talked about this and, above all, I have been thinking about the situation that these effects will need to be examined and, on the basis of this, also a credible objective assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President. The demagogy itself is us, full of beautiful words - from your side, which sound very strange today. I believe that the affected are quite a lot in Slovenia, and those who watch will understand your mission to the National Assembly. Look, punishments are too low, that's a fact. The lowest penalties imposed in Slovenia are within the European Community. That's a fact. This led us to change this law. This is the first fact; and the free movement of labour within the European Union will only increase this problem in Slovenia. You claim that it is necessary to protect those who will come to seek work in Slovenia. That we have no right to ask about their past. That's what you say. Interesting! If that happens, then we will really be able to record, given that we have the lowest penalties, even greater violations in this area. And I believe that your children will be grateful; I hope that this will not happen to yours. It is clear to protect whom we will protect in the free labour market. And if we take into account the fact that this is available in church circles - if we accompany the press and the media, we can see that this is a problem of the Church - that it can be afforded by many rich people, that selling children for these purposes today is almost a sinister act in our possession. That's a fact. And the authorities do nothing to prosecute these offenders, even less if there are convictions, the penalties are very low. If we wanted to have a register, there would be only one protection against violators fleeing the middle, where they are legally convicted, not landing here in Slovenia. And today, when you reject that good intention, that's exactly what you're going to do. You know, legislation is transparent today, and anyone who wants to enjoy it can see exactly where he has to go so that he doesn't get punished. If he's a kleptomaniac, an alcoholic, or a pedophile, he'll go there anyway, because pleasures will be the least cheap and punishment for him. Thank you for being so unreasonable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you for your discussion. I invite Ambassador Zagorec to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. Just one sentence. Sexual abuse is a crime, and it's never the child's fault, it's the adults' fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you. The last one on the list of applicants is Mrs Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I won't be long in those last words either. However, I would like to draw your attention once again to what has been misrepresented by the speakers before me from various political parties. In particular, as regards the introduction of the register, let me read, I will really read again literally what we have written in the amendment of the law. In the context of Article 184, the following shall be added: "The employer who employs or otherwise cooperates with persons involved in the educational, educational, protective and guardianial process shall be required to verify each of them in the criminal record or register referred to in Article 184a of this Act." That's new, too. 184.a. Article of this Act - let me read: "The offences of 180, 181, 182, 183 of this Act are entered in the criminal record or register of convicted offenders, which is administered by the Ministry of Justice." I hope you have understood what is written here, that you will not make repeated mistakes, that you will not continue to mislead the public or your fellow Members of Parliament. Let me remind you once again, those who do not agree with certain changes in this novel have the opportunity to submit an amendment to the amendment in the course of the second reading on the home working body and to propose changes to their proposals. I have heard that this debate is filled with emotion or emotional charge today. I'm going to say it's actually hard, actually, when I'm talking about children who are victims of such cruel acts as sexual violence, I'm actually going to stay ignorantly cold. That's a mistake, and that's the wrong thought! Once again, I warn you, this mindset should not rule in this temple of democracy. As far as demagogy or false information is concerned. Allow me to finally read just one letter, written by the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, the victim of child abuse who asks or welcomes the change within the limitation period. I read: "Although paper carries everything, we hope that this bill will change a lot of things for victims of sexual abuse who are already adults and for children. Just knowing that things are moving more about protecting the victims of these crimes, as well as to other victims, brings fresh courage and a sense of support that not everything is lost. You brought a new wind into the sails. Thank you."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you. I also conclude this debate. On the proposals for the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, at 2.50 p.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I interrupt the meeting of the congregation, which we will continue, as we say, at 2.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u142	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right side of the inserted abbreviations. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 1. If the amendment is not adopted, the remaining amendments become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 12. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 14. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 15. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 17. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 17. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the assembly adopted Articles 1 to 5 of the amended proposal for a law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. I guess not. In this way, I note that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that it would not have been harmonised with the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the law. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u143	I think that the third reading has been signed and the amendment to the second reading has been tabled, adopted, and that the amendment that has been tabled for the third reading should be discussed and then decided on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u144	The amendment to the third reading shall be submitted after the second reading has been completed. That's why I asked if anyone wanted to put an amendment into third reading. As long as you've missed it yourself, I'm asking you one more time. Would you like to submit an amendment to the amended article or amendment article in the third reading? As long as the amendment is ready, I ask that it be reproduced, distributed to the Members. I'm breaking up with that point. We will continue it when the amendment is reproduced and distributed to Members of Parliament, that is to say, at the end of today's vote. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the conditions for obtaining the property rights of the natural and legal persons of the candidate countries for EU membership in real estate. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since it was not possible to table an amendment in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the cut-off of the 26th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and setting up their areas. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since it was not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are coming to a decision on the law. Mr. Aurelio Yuri. Here's the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u145	In my own name. Just for a little while. I, as before, will also oppose the establishment of new congregations, I am against fragmentation. I know that the fragmentation of communities means the fragmentation of the social body and its development potential. To establish new municipalities, we are increasing public administration, we are increasing public spending, so we are investing in non-productiveity, and for that reason, of course, this law will not receive my support. But it is certainly an opportunity for some individuals and a great illusion, a great fairy tale for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u147	In contrast to my previous colleague, I will of course support the law because I believe that the new municipalities are actually a guarantee for further democratic development in our country and also for coherent regional development. I regret, however, that my amendment was not properly dealt with on the committee by the then-president who had misrepresented the procedure and, unfortunately, it was no longer possible at this stage to amend the amendment for the municipality which had passed a positive referendum in accordance with the Constitution. I regret, too, that this national assembly and this government do not lead to the establishment of a consistent policy, as it has done in the past, to measure all the results of the referendums with the same vat. We know that we have 66 municipalities established by a negative referendum in Slovenia, without a constitutional basis, and if the municipality were not for something positive, at least one of these municipalities in the Constitutional Court would have fallen by now. This means that the fact on the ground completely denies what the previous colleague was talking about, of course, at least for these few congregations I will gladly support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Contrary to the first speaker - against; on the contrary, I support the establishment of new congregations, because it is simply the will of the people expressed in the referendum. That's what could be the most. And I believe that in these new congregations, citizens of these communities will be more likely to apply their mission to them than in previous congregations. And I wish them a lot of success on this path, because so far it has turned out that all the municipalities that have been set up have shown some developmental possibilities for a faster development of their environments, and I believe that these five will also give an additional stimulus, both to those citizens and to the regions in which they are. We will therefore be happy to support this law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u151	On behalf of New Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we will support five municipalities of Šentrupert, Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica, Log-Dragomer, Gore and Rijeka in Savinja today, these five municipalities, which already seemed to be hanging, and in fact the constitutional court helped us. We'll respect that will, and we'll support them back then. We were confident that a health home could not be an obstacle to the formation of the congregation, so we will support them today. However, I am sure that they are also due to the fact that some mayors and the home municipalities have treated them as stepmothers and have not supported them in their efforts, and now they have this opportunity, we will briefly support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a resident of this planet Earth and a citizen of Slovenia, who is a member of the United Nations, I warn all those who oppose self-determination, which is a fundamental right, fundamental human right. I warn all those who oppose such decisions to think about these facts. And it is undeniable that if a community, a state, or a congregation decides to be independent, it should not be disputed either with a word or with a thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th paragraph of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law supplementing the witness protection law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since it was not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 28th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, allow me to explain my voice or to repeat once again what this amendment of the Penal Code or amendment also refers to, in view of the fact that in the debates by some discussers, it was possible to hear the wrong interpretations of what was written in the amendment to the Penal Code. The first amendment is an outdated prosecution. The fact is, under the existing legislation, victims have the opportunity to initiate criminal proceedings five years after their age. The novelty of the penal code based on practical cases, what practice has shown, what is asked of this country of the victim - this deadline extends. Another important change is to raise the penalties at stake. And the third important change is the introduction of the so-called register. Allow me to repeat and quote literally the amendment relating to the introduction of the register: In the context of Article 184, the third paragraph is added, which reads as follows: "The employer who employs or otherwise cooperates with the people involved in the educational, educational, protective and guardianial process is obliged to examine each of them in the criminal record referred to in Article 184a of this Act." However, the Ministry is responsible for this criminal record. These are the three key amendments included in the new Penal Code. Allow me once again to appeal to you, my fellow Members and colleagues, on behalf of the Group of Members. I've said this a few times today, or my fellow Members mentioned it, sexual abuse is, you don't want a crime, a crime against a child. Children are not to blame for the crime being committed against them, and society is the one who has to create the conditions, to create both the legal basis and the general climate in our country in order to protect the helpless victims. I therefore appeal to you to support the decision to keep the law in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you. I myself will support the bill simply because I agree that sexual violence against children is among the worst, certainly the worst forms of violence in society. The penalties imposed in this area are extremely low and give very strange messages to the whole society. The judiciary often refers to the legislative framework as it is. That is why I think it is an opportunity for us to change this legislative framework. I believe that the law is suitable for further consideration; unless all solutions are systematically harmonised, this can also be rectified by amendments in further readings. That is why I will also support the proposed law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u159	Your Honors are here! I had not been able to participate in the debate before, because I led the meeting, for which I am, frankly, very sorry. At the National Party, we've been following this idea for years. The fact is that very little has been done during this period, as shown or shown by statistics in this area. But I'd like to talk about a new dimension. On several occasions, it has been exposed by all the groups in our debate to the fact that individual elements or the basic message are good. There was no Member or Member who would oppose the protection of children or victims of sexual inviolability. In connection with this, given that the proposal for a decision states that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia at first reading - and important in the first reading - is appropriate, let us also allow, if we support this, a second reading, namely the inclusion of the home labour body, and at the final stage of the third reading, i.e. the consideration once again at the national assembly. So whoever is following the basic message of this law in this national assembly, so that the legislator will also say stop pedophilia and rape in our society, each of you will have the opportunity to include all those novelties and all those improvements that you were so full of during today's debate. Enable, according to our assessment, you owe this to those in our society who, of course, cannot protect themselves against such violence. With the adoption of the law at first reading, we only essentially open the parliamentary procedure, open it to amendments, thus complementing and modifying the content mentioned above. From this title it would be necessary to adopt, of course, the law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Let me also appeal to you to give the law a chance and together let us give it a second reading of the final form. I do not think that there is a debater who has discussed today either as a presentation of the position of the individual group or then in the debate, but it is true that Mr Kovacic and Mrs Širca have also participated in the debate, in addition to the Members of the Slovenian National Parties, that you give this opportunity and contribute, I will say, some of your ideas and thoughts, which you all claimed were necessary to make a change - give yourself this option. As we have already established yesterday, and last but not least, the amendment is the right of an individual Member and today give yourself this opportunity to take advantage of this right in another reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since there were so few of you in this room before, it is right - that in fact some are the loudest now that the vote has to be made, they were gone before. Pedophilia in our society is present in all spheres. Of course, even the Church is not exempt, as I said before, and the penalties within the European Community are the lowest, that is also a fact. It is normal to see this in Slovenia, in fact, when it comes to the free movement of labour as it will be within the European Community, that it is already noticeable, that it is also right to protect children from those who will seek refuge here. We want to have transparency over these factors or violators, and this law also makes it possible. Therefore, it is also right to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 42. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I note that this has also resulted in the completion of the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a social law. On Thursday 25 May 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 12. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for an e-commerce law on the market. On Friday 26 May, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on biocidal products. On Friday 26 May, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 for them, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 14th item of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. On Friday 26 May, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 for them, against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of item 15 of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal of the law on professional and scientific titles. On Thursday, 25 May, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I will be happy to support this law, as it completes the crown for the adoption of programmes in the field of the Bologna Process, the University and also students of this law are still in need and it is necessary to say that we have completed one part of the legislation in the field of higher education. At the same time, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed in any way to the fact that this law has come to this moment when we vote on it, and I also call on the rest of you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 57 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 16th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of New Varieties of Plants. On Friday 26 May 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the marriage would not be inconsistent with the amendments adopted by the home labour force. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 17th item on the agenda - the third item on the proposal for a law on freshwater fishing. On Thursday, 25 May, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members. The Social Democrats' Group will support the freshwater fisheries law, regardless of the fact that some of our amendments have not been adopted at second reading, but have been adopted or at least summarised on the Home Committee. I see the weakness of this law in this, but it is not such a big flaw that I could vote against. I see a weakness in the fact that very many things have been passed on to the Minister himself or to the Minister responsible, so that there may be a number of things that have not yet been regulated in the law by means of sub-laws and other regulations. Therefore, I would like to draw particular attention here to the representatives of the ministry or government, so that the law will not be bypassed and they will make such bylaws that they would not be in the spirit of this law, because the Minister or Minister and the Government themselves have taken a very large right to implement this law. I would like to draw particular attention here to the fact that we do not want to play the Fishing Union of Slovenia and many fishing families, which represent as many as 15,000 Slovenian fishermen fishing in our rivers and lakes. Nevertheless, I repeat, the Social Democrats' parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the law. There are 60 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. We are moving on to the third reading, debate and vote on the amendments you have received on the bench. Since the amendments are linked, I am putting all the amendments to the debate. Please take the following into account when voting: If the first amendment to Article 1 is not adopted, the other amendments become irrelevant. Procedurally, Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u169	Allow me, on behalf of the Group of Members, to propose a 15-minute recess because we will table an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u170	Will you be able to file it in 15 minutes? Good. I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick her up at 3:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. The amendment to the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members is about to be split. However, it is only in allowing the LDS Group's amendment to fix only in numbers: instead of 24 months, it proposes 12 months. That is why we can start with a debate that we will have together on all the amendments, and I once again warn, we will first vote on the amendment to the amendment. This is said to be the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and then the amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, they will remain irrelevant. Who wants to discuss it? The debate is five minutes per Member. Mr. Mogue, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have tabled this amendment, not without the slightest hope that it will be adopted because of the debate that took place under this law. Somehow it seems to us that those vats that determined how much time that would have been, the maximum time to eavesdrop perhaps by our estimate is 100% too low, you added 300% to it, and if you think that this is really a security issue and that intelligence services can deal with these things professionally and successfully, then we make this decision. On the other hand, you have not convinced us or we have not been convinced that the quality of the work of the intelligence and security service is greatly improved if the possibility of deciding the measure from the President of the District Court to the hands of the President of the Supreme Court is passed. No one has convinced us, and yet we are still convinced that if the law remained the same as in the second reading, legal protection against a court decision that would, of course, have issued such a measure would be prevented. And it seems to me, I am pleased to say, distasteful to speak of the fact that, by assuming the office of the President of the Supreme Court instead of the President of the District Court, these things would then be to what extent inappropriately quality. We trust in the judicial system, we trust the minister to lead him as well as he should be. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] - Thank you very much, I think I'm sad - and I think the decisions of the district court are quality enough for the quality work of security and intelligence services. [[....]] Because of these two things to allow legal protection against the court's decision, and trust in our legal system have instructed us to table these amendments. I would ask you, otherwise we are not in a partnership for development, but we are still trying to accept this amendment for the benefit of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. In the Socialist Group of Members, we will not change the position that we have drawn up on the compromise proposal that emerged from the amendment committee, in order to extend the time for the use of these special methods from 6 months to 12 months. We expected that we would all take more thought into each other before the final decision, because it was only some of the consequences that could have lasting consequences for individuals as well. Such interventions are thus most dangerous to those or to those who do not have or are least likely to engage in criminal activities. The intervention in privacy is also by a decision of the court without any interference, the most technically completed and, by its consequences, the most profound. It is carried out in secret, which means that an individual has virtually no possibility of avoiding it. Last but not least, most people never know that at some point, at some point in time, she was under control. And that's what this is about, and so once again, I appeal to take our time, we can still correct this upper anchor for 24 months or 36 months, but to stay with these 12 months at this point, because the reasons that we have heard, especially those sitting on this committee, did not indicate that the need to extend that time is manifest. So let us reconsider and somehow appeal that we try to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. In the LDS, we have proposed an amendment that does not fully return the text, as the Commission has adopted, although, now, from the amendment to the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group of Members, this is exactly what is happening. In the course of the debate, we have already said that, although it is a reasonable period of one year that the two years are unreasonablely long, we wanted to correct only the most in-heavenly anomaly in our opinion of this law, or amendments to the amended law, where the President of the Supreme Court will decide on the application of the measures. This is not comparable to European countries, it is practically nowhere. When you mentioned in the debate countries that do not have restrictions, although our country does have a different constitution, you did not serve a single case in order even to impose such measures on the President of the Supreme Court. Of course, I don't even want to believe that some legislation changes because of people, because of certain people, but I'm afraid that's true. We know the problems the president of the district court has had, and I'm afraid that's just why we're changing the law. And if that's true, I really don't know where we're going. We know that we have amended the anti-corruption law because of certain people, and I am now afraid that these changes are also due to certain people. Is there a legal lustration of certain people who are not willing to rule the coalition? And even the system, we change the legal framework to get rid of someone or to reduce their influence. I'm saying, I don't even want to believe it's possible, but I'm afraid there's something about this because these things aren't random anymore. I appeal to you once again to consider and support the amendments to return the text to the content proposed by the Commission as a working mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss the amendments? Here you go, Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Our position remains unchanged as it was five hours ago. We also believe that the legal protection of an individual will remain the same as before. We're practically not changing anything. All we are changing is that it is possible to extend specific measures so that it can be extended up to 24 months and that someone else decides this possibility of using specific methods. Moreover, already after the current law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, any supervised individual - of course if he knows that he is controlled, because he usually knows, if he knows, then he has no sense of being controlled - any such person may be familiar with the material obtained by the use of specific methods of data acquisition. So we stay on the same page and we won't support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment to the amendment. So on the amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats in Article 1. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 36. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the LDS amendment to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, they remain irrelevant. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This also made the other amendments irrelevant. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law would not have been harmonised because of the amendments previously adopted. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. A man offers a hand, gets a slap, usually with us. But that doesn't even hurt, you know. It hurts more to look at these decisions than to see the National Assembly become a transmission of the government. We are nothing more than what working bodies do, where they have the opposition majority, means nothing like a bulldozer we are always over-voted. I don't have anything else, as if from this moral point of view please. [[...]] I don't have any choice but to apologize, I won't talk anymore because I don't work here. [[...]] I mean, it's not a level, Mr President of the National Assembly, but it's usually, I'd rather eat the word myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u181	Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. We will not support this bill for a simple reason in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, because there is no compromise even for a fraction. But let me tell you, for a traveler, those who support this amendment of the law are the safest doors that can always be opened, not the ones that close. And that's why, of course, this proposal that I smell, because the word "hope and trust" has been used a number of times today, somehow comes to mind, trust me, but be wary of me or beware of me. With this change today, when we go to two years of undercover, not public, control over individual citizens, I think we are working a precedent. The three-headed dragon that is already in operation is the SOVA, VOMO and part of the police involved in this is a large guarantee that citizens can be safe in this respect with all the powers and levels of competence they have, and there is no need to change in this way. And one more thing to do. If we really wanted to do this, then we wouldn't have started at the wrong end in amending the amendment of the Owl Law. We have begun with human rights and will end in three, four years in technical matters or other digital new inventions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u184	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this law because there is no human right, it limits freedom, more than necessary, based on different stories, from September 11th to everything we have met since September 11th. It was clear that the security situation in Slovenia was nothing worse, it was clear that Slovenians themselves were not at risk of any security, but there was a demand to listen more precisely and longer. At the same time, decision-making is high, so there is no possibility of judicial protection. It does not talk about any of the values that Slovenia has created. Slovenia was born in 1991 with the pride of will and desire for freedom, not only of the state, but of all citizens and citizens. There's something completely different going on today, although I don't know whose benefit it is, but it is. That's why I don't think we can support this novelty of marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I'm not going to support this new marriage myself. I also cannot understand why the opinions of the working bodies of the national assembly are so easily ignored, even if the opposition has a majority in them, does not mean that the opinions coming from these working bodies are not professionally justified. I think we have three branches of government, three branches of government to think with our heads, independent of the other two, and we are slowly turning the system into some kind of government or chancellor system with a great leader at the top, and wherever it is. I cannot understand why, on the one hand, the government's arguments and the ruling coalition were, when Slovenia sent soldiers to Iraq on the one hand, such that the security situation in no way deteriorates, that Slovenia is a safe country, and now you are adopting a new law that strengthens the control of the citizens of this country. If the security situation has not changed in any way, then I wonder what this is all about. I don't think that's good. I think that from day to day we are witnessing the restriction of human freedom, different laws are interfering with human rights, and some autonomy or intimate space of every human being is a fundamental human right. And by actually getting the authorities of this country to intervene significantly further in this intimacy, of course, human rights are being violated. Without changing the security situation of this country in any way. I don't think that's a good idea. That seems highly controversial, so I'm not going to support this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. The State of Slovenia, here I agree with my colleague, has indeed come from a desire for freedom. I warn, however, that it also came from a desire for security because of the situation they were then. And it is this area that is governed by the law that is before us in a perfectly appropriate way, which is internationally comparable and at the same time responds to the changing world situation that we must adapt to and that we must all face responsibly. That this proposal is justified, however, I am also prevented by the opposition today, because after months of tsunamis have been shown to her, the three-headed dragon is now beginning. Apparently it's a transition from panic to metaphysical. How this is gonna end, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you. Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we will support this law. This law in no way reduces the status in this area, only slightly differently regulated. Otherwise, we have been used to these warnings by the opposition, which frightens the Slovenian public. Yesterday we heard 9 hours of debate on terminals, today on another topic, how this law will reduce the scope of human rights and freedom. Once again, on behalf of human rights and freedom, I will reiterate that we cannot agree that Slovenia will become the weakest article in the EU on protection against terrorism. I told you in the morning that nothing had changed since 9/11. Terrorism was still there. And when I hear this debate by some of the opposition's colleagues, I cannot shake off what happened in Madrid before the elections, when the opposition's terrorist attack won the elections in a few days. I don't think we should allow something like this to expose Slovenia to such or similar terrorist activity. And if we have this opportunity to act preventively, then despite these words coming from the opposition species, we need to accept that we are to be fully protected in this area. I would suggest to Mr Mohet that he should not be angry if the coalition majority does not think like the opposition minority. Times have changed, but sometimes it has been the other way around in this National Assembly, but now the matter has been replaced and most in this National Assembly think that this area needs to be regulated in the way it is proposed today, so there is no need to act with such anger and in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I will not support the law myself, because in fact the National Assembly does not listen to its working bodies and decisions, and I will not try to solve this area because the security area is trying to be covered by the Bush recipe. Bush is solving the problem that arose after 11 September by creating new thousands of victims in Iraq and going to Iraq, and we find that there is no increased danger, but we need to go on a campaign of repressive measures on behalf of security, which is why I will not support this law because there was no minimum will after some consensus that would be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u194	Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will oppose the law, as I have already said in the debate here. Your government is running such an external policy, colleague Lahovnik has already ordered that, in cooperation with the United States of America, in cooperation with the battlefields produced by the Bush administration itself, literally waved at terrorists. You're making the security situation worse, you're saying that it's not like sending our soldiers to these battlefields, but today you admit that the security situation is getting worse and that's why we need to act, but you're doing it by giving the big brother who's already got big eyes an even bigger look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will not support the law because I already told you at the second reading because it extends the period during which specific control methods are to be carried out or used. However, I would also like to say that it is interesting that the law prolongs the use of specific control methods for exactly two years, that is, for a period of time when services will be able to prevent or monitor all data on potential terrorists, which means that they will be able to prevent a terrorist attack against the next national elections and thus prevent the left from winning these elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u198	Instead of relaxing, we are faced with another law that leads us to a controlled society, so I will not support this law. There is a spirit of repression throughout this country and a new "k-ji", "k-ji", which dictates control, punishment and commission, may eventually be castration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment not only because the amendments proposed are not accepted but because the whole solution proposed is not acceptable. Even the various beliefs that were here didn't convince me. Rather, I expect that one day someone who has been avidly defending these changes may have suffered a headache. If we extend or reduce it to 12 months or leave 4 or 36 months, this does not mean anything, since after this solution it is possible to extend the use of special methods to infinity with some new facts. And we will be able to control that, say and write to the citizens, indefinitely, from one place, in contrast to the solutions that have so far been scattered. This means that we will need a compatible Supreme Court to determine how and by whom it will be controlled by what methods. The reasons for the prevention of terrorism, the reasons for the change due to the prevention of terrorism, of course, are not convincing, since then some of our colleagues, who have already been controlled, would fall within the category of terrorists [[we know about intercepting electronic information in case of operating tables and similar]] And these things are worrying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! There is a small quiz on the Owl website that has four questions: firstly, Owl has agents; Owl uses coercive means to perform its tasks; officials, agents can use official documents with modified data; Owl can listen to calls by anyone in RS at any time if it considers it necessary. And of course you move the square to the left if you think the statement is correct, and to the right if it's wrong. I propose that, after the adoption of this law, we add the fifth question: is it true that the use of a specific form of data retrieval has been extended four times. Of course I will vote against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you. Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 39 Members and Members are present. We are moving on to a second vote. Please be careful, we're voting another time. Once again, 39 Members and Members of Parliament are present. We'll have a third vote in 10 minutes at 4:21. I'm adjourning the session and we'll resume at 4:21.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We continue with the 17th meeting of the National Assembly and the full voting process on the law. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u205	In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, with the second paragraph, on behalf of the Head of the Group of Members, I declare the obstruction of the entire Group of Members under this item of the agenda. We have already mentioned the reasons and reasons before, once again, that, in terms of the protection of human rights, the amendment of the law to be voted on is too much of an intervention into human rights and justifiable; there are no valid reasons for it to intervene. We have tried to reach a compromise proposal until today in the debate and in the patient dialogue, we have come up with a compromise proposal on the Commission, but you have rejected it and, of course, we are obstructing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u207	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. The Liberal Democracy Club also predicts obstruction under the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We estimate that the adoption of this law limits excessive freedom under the cover of security, that we have witnessed that those offers of the partnership for development are not applicable at all, as no proposal of the opposition has received any support, even more, we estimate that such an adopted law will also restrict the legal security of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and that we leave the meeting because of the transfer of powers to the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-30-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you. In doing so, it should be noted that the second paragraph of Article 65 reads: the head of the group member may indicate the absence of all members of the group when considering a particular item on the agenda, stating the reasons for such absence. Obstruction cannot be announced in the middle of a vote. We are ahead of a third vote. We're voting. 39 Members and Members are present. I note that we are also unconclusive in the third attempt to vote, which is why I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly and will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. I also interrupt this agenda item. We will vote at the time of the vote tomorrow.
