ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Member and Members: Roberto Battelli, Dr Pavel Gantar, Aurelio Juri, Mag. Janez Kramberger, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Alojz Posedel, Cyril Testen, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Ferry Horvat, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Davorin Terčon and Kristian Janc. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. On the basis of the interpretation of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted by the Rules of Procedure Commission on 25 March 2004, the assembly will consider as a preliminary question the proposal for a decision on the requirement that the Constitutional Court decide whether the content of the requirement contained in the invitation to tender for a preliminary legislative referendum on the law amending and supplementing the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Health Insurance is EPA 677, which was lodged on 23 January 2006 by the Slovenian National Party, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and could therefore, on the basis of its postponement and enforcement of the law, have a negative effect. The draft decision was submitted to the Health Committee for consideration by the assembly. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee to explain the proposal for a decision. Mr. Germich, you have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! At its 10th urgent meeting on 23 January 2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a decision on the request by the Constitutional Court to decide whether the content of the requirement contained in the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on amendments to the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, submitted by the Slovenian National Party on 23.1.2006, could therefore, on the basis of the postponement of the adoption and enforcement of the law, be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. On 23.1.2006, the Slovenian National Party presented an initiative to the electorate and the electorate to collect signatures for the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on that initiative. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the Government agreed with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and on the basis of the debate, the members and members of the Committee adopted the following proposal for a decision on the basis of Article 16, paragraph 1, of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and the Constitutional Court Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requests that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decide whether the content of the requirement contained in the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on amendments and amendments to the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Health Insurance and Health Insurance, submitted by the Slovenian National Party on 23.1.2006, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, could therefore result from the postponement, adoption and implementation of the Law. The National Assembly also proposes to the Constitutional Court to suspend the implementation of the rules providing for the possibility of transforming a mutual insurance company into a share company until the end of the regime of possible transformation of the Mutual into a share company. The proposed decision was adopted by the Committee on the basis of that explanation. The fundamental purpose of the constitutionally guaranteed right to a legislative referendum, which is in accordance with constitutional jurisprudence based on the right of citizens to participate in the management of public affairs, is in accordance with the Constitution and the law to reach a referendum where citizens can decide on matters governed by law. The referendum initiative can therefore only pursue such a purpose. In a specific case, it is clear from the content of the referendum initiative or the referendum question and its explanation that the purpose of this initiative, which was submitted by the Slovenian National Party, is to keep the legislative process going for a certain period of time and thus prevent the timely adoption of the bill to which the referendum initiative relates. Given the well-known fact that the Mutual Assembly will decide on its transformation into a share society on 1.2.2006, it is clear that if the said Assembly had taken such a decision, it would not have been possible, on the basis of the initiative tabled, to carry out a referendum on this issue in a timely manner, since, if the initiators had chosen more than 40,000 signatures in support of their request, the legislative referendum could only be carried out in March or later. This means, however, that such a referendum would be irrelevant in the event of an already completed transformation of the Mutual to a Shareholder Society, since the purpose and purpose of the law to which the Referendum question relates would cease in this case. The introduction of a referendum initiative in order to prevent the completion of the legislative procedure constitutes the constitutionally unacceptable application of this legal institution. Therefore, the National Assembly considers that the content of the requirement contained in the referendum initiative is unconstitutional and that, by delaying the adoption or enforcement of the law to which the initiative relates, the consequences could be unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Germich. He wants to speak with a government representative. Mr. Andrey Brucan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u4	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision at its letter meeting 24.1. to support the decision of the Health Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of 23.1.2006 and to propose to the National Assembly that the decision of the Health Committee be adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the mutual health insurance company was not established on the basis of the provisions of the Insurance Act but was established on the basis of a specific law, i.e. the Act amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, and therefore the criteria and conditions for recasting under this specific law and not under the relevant articles of the Insurance Act should be assessed. Since the funds for the establishment of a mutual health insurance undertaking have been pooled under the provisions of this specific law, which laid down the conditions for the establishment of a special mutual insurance undertaking, it is necessary to redefine the purpose of these funds as they have been transferred free of charge under the provisions of the law to implement the principles and objectives of reciprocity. The establishment capital was paid out from voluntary health insurance for purposes of reciprocity rather than from the equity capital of the equity company for the purpose of owning. To initiate the process of recasting the mutual health insurance undertaking following a supervisory decision or amendments to the Mutual Statute allowing the transformation does not grant rights to the insured. On the basis of the law, insurance contracts concluded in 1993 were transferred to the Mutual Insurance Contracts, under which all insurers do not have the right to the envisaged conversion, but only the insurers have them when the premiums have only been deducted from their salaries. The insured persons will also be harmed by war laws, in which the insurer was the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and in breach of article 18 of the Act, it has terminated the contract since 31.12.2005. Under the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act 1998, insurance contracts were automatically transferred to a newly established mutual society and, in the opinion of the Government, insurance providers should be given the opportunity to determine freely whether they want to continue to be insured in a mutual society or whether they want to implement voluntary, complementary health insurance in a public limited society. Given the number of insured persons who terminated the insurance contract in a mutual health insurance undertaking by 31.12.2005, it is possible to conclude that most insured persons continue to provide their supplementary health insurance in a mutual society where reciprocity and intergenerational solidarity are ensured. With an incentive to call for a preliminary legislative referendum submitted by the Slovenian National Party on 23.1.2006, the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which provided for the adoption of a special law to regulate the procedure and conditions for the conversion of a mutual health insurance company into a share company, has been halted. The initiative put forward would enable the implementation of the Mutual Assembly, referred to in 1.2.2006, where the decision on recasting is envisaged. Given that the proposed conversion could result in damage to a large number of insured persons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the adoption of a law would be necessary before the recast process would continue to take place, which would regulate these conditions in a way that would prevent possible damage to insured persons. It is therefore appropriate to assess the initiative put forward by the Constitutional Court, which is to decide whether the content of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and could therefore, on the basis of the postponement of the adoption and enforcement of the law, have had an anti-constitutional effect. The second part of the decision of the National Council Health Committee proposes that the Constitutional Court suspend the implementation of the rules providing for the possibility of transforming the mutual insurance company into a share company, with the provision of both the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u5	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I ask which group wants to present its position and who is in the Group of Members. Mr. Pache, Gnyardsich. How about you procedurally? Let me write my hands up. Mr Žnidaršič, Kontič, Dobrajc and Nova Slovenija, Mr Capuder. Mr. Pache, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u6	Respectable present. Procedural and secondly, because I would like to be involved in the debate in the debate of the Group of Members. I would only ask you procedurally, given that you have called on the Health Committee to give its opinion, you have called on the representative of the Government, mag. Andrej Bručan to present his position on the initiative of the Slovenian National Party, I would only ask you for at least so many political cultures that you also call on the representative of investors and investors, who is of course in the Chamber in this case, is the Slovenian National Party. Allow this option, at least this option, if you have always violated our rules of procedure, so that we can also speak at this stage. Count this, please, as procedural and to invite us to your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u7	Mr Pece, of course, I cannot put such a proposal to the vote because the motion for a decision is a committee and not a Slovenian national party. Of course, you have the opportunity to have an unlimited practical discussion on behalf of the Group of Members and also as individual Members. I therefore have a list of the applicants who will present the views of their members. These are Mr Žnidaršič, Mr Kontić, Mrs Dobrajc, Mr Capuder and Mr Anderlic. Any of the other MPs? Mr. Peche. No one else. I give the floor to Mr Žnidarsic, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Our parliamentary group will absolutely support the Health Committee's proposal. We are aware that this is an important decision. We understand the National Party's initiative as an attack on the national interest of the citizens of this country and on the national interest of the State as such, so we think it is right for the Constitutional Court to judge this initiative. We are confident that, with the success of this initiative, there would be irreparable consequences in terms of the fraud of the decade, in terms of the fraud of the insurers who remained with the Mutual, we are convinced that they remain in the mutual insurance company, which after they have already agreed to do so, will transform into a share company with all the consequences, as seen by the current management of this insurance company. We cannot agree with this intent of transformation. Moreover, I think it would suggest that such voluntary insurance should be abolished in the long term, thus preventing similar attempts in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr Kontic will speak on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The attitude of the Social Democrats' parliamentary group towards the law, which is now stuck between the second and third readings, has already been presented in the second reading of the law. We are still convinced that this amendment to the law is necessary, a change to the law that will allow for the adoption of legislation specifically defining this area before the mutual is transformed into a share society. It is certainly important to note that we have been expecting a timely government intervention until now. This unfortunately was not when it was necessary to propose a law that would not actually put us in those timeframes in which we are today and when we have difficulties adopting this law. The problems would probably be similar, but there would be a little more time to solve these problems. I will not talk today about what we believe in the Group of Members on the transformation of the Mutual into a Shareholder Society, nor will I mention the arguments for opposition in particular, but I would define myself on behalf of the Group of Members until the decision we have today, what is the matter with all these decisions. It is essentially a reaction to the decision of the Mutual to transform into a shareholder society, on the one hand, and on the other hand to try to prevent the adoption of a law at all costs and to enable it to happen before 1 February, i.e. the Mutual Assembly, rather than the adoption of a law that would define it more precisely. The decision that we have today and is a proposal for a mother's working body, the Health Committee, will be supported in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, so that the Constitutional Court will decide on it. At the same time, yesterday in the process of adopting this decision, together with some other colleagues, we are convinced that this second paragraph of this Decision is equally important, which states that the Constitutional Court should suspend the implementation of the rules which provide for the possibility of transforming a mutual insurance company into a share company until the legal regime for possible transformation of the Mutual into a share company. This means that if this paragraph of this Decision were not to be decided by the Constitutional Court, but probably after 1 February, which would mean that it is too late in view of the General Assembly's reference to each other, this second part of the decision is as important as it was the first. As I said, we expected a more active role for the government, but today it is the Parliament that decides and the Social Democrats' Group will support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Conticy. Ms Dobrajc will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed decision. It is true that the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power in a concrete situation, is working in time. It is also true that the Mutual and Status-Organised Mutual Insurance Company itself causes time distress. It's organized by a system of reciprocity. And as such, it is of special public interest. For this reason, we believe in the Group of Members that the National Assembly in a situation where an initiative for a preliminary legislative referendum has been put forward, which could be decided on the possible transformation of the insurance undertaking into another form, should be submitted to the Constitutional Court for its assessment, since the time limits are the following. On 30 December 2005, it proposed to each other a reference to the Assembly. Under the law, members have the right to object if they would not possibly agree to the amendments to the Statute, and that is also to the amendments relating to the transformation into a share company for 3 days. This is said to have expired for opposition from members on 3 or 4 January. The conversion is due to take place on 1 February 2005. However, a preliminary legislative referendum to determine whether or not people wish for a status change of the insurance undertaking would have taken place in March or April. This is already after the implementation of the status change. It is true that the procedure in the rule of law is a queen, but the procedure must not be used. Therefore, the SDS Group fully supports the decision of the Health Committee, because in a specific case we assess that the submission of an initiative or the submission of an application for a preliminary legislative referendum is an abuse of law. Regardless of whether there will be a referendum and if the National Assembly as a legislative body does not intervene in the transformation of the Mutual Insurance Office, which has a particular public interest, there will be abuse. Therefore, the SDS Group will support the proposed decision of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Dobrajchev. Mr Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! New Slovenia supports the proposal for a decision proposed by the Health Committee for adoption. The purpose of the transformation of the Mutual in the manner proposed by the Mutual is not acceptable to our Party. The government has tried to put matters in place by adopting the relevant law proposed by Parliament for adoption, but this law was stopped just before the adoption of the referendum in the third stage. The request for a preliminary referendum was also addressed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and found the referendum issue unclear. It also raises the question of the constitutionality of such a question, as the legislative and legal service notes that the content of the referendum initiative, or the referendum question and its explanation, clearly suggests that the purpose of this initiative is to suspend the legislative procedure for a certain period of time and thus not allow the timely adoption of a bill that would put an end to the property transformation procedures of the Mutual. As I have already said at the outset, we will support the proposal for a decision in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr Anderlič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u16	Your Honor! You get a funny feeling when you talk about this insurance company. It hasn't been half a year since we did this same insurance business during the holidays, even under some time pressure, even with some explanation of what it is necessary to do to prevent something ugly. And if we reached out to this matter at the time, it is strange that something even more terrible has occurred in this regard within six months, so it is actually quite normal for all the members of the group to feel the same way, except for signature-gathering incentives, when it comes to protecting the interests of the insurers and, on the other hand, also to legitimate, constitutional rights, incentives for collecting signatures for the referendum. This is a serious dilemma, and this decision is actually a mix of cases relating to the law after the referendum, which is Article 16, on the basis of which the Constitutional Court should ask whether this question is admissible, whether it is possible to raise such a question at the referendum, or whether it is even possible to referend in this case and so on. With that article of the Constitutional Court Act, which speaks of something else, and this is to keep the Constitutional Court executed under the Constitutional Court Act in Article 39. So when a person faces these issues, it is strange that the government does not do everything to clearly identify itself on the issues required, in order to ultimately provide the national assembly with all the information, all the grounds that each bill-maker must provide. Members, too, when we put in laws, we must attach all relevant information, arguments as to why we are making a law and what we are trying to achieve with this law. Even more so, on Friday here in this Chamber, the President of the National Assembly ensured that he himself would obtain opinions from the Insurance Supervisory Agency on what to do in this case. Is it possible for the Insurance Supervisory Agency to intervene by means of its act before the Assembly or by the Assembly, or is it a preliminary opinion on a particular proposal for a recast decision? Some lawyers feel that it is necessary to obtain an opinion, while others say that only when acts are adopted at the congregation are taken for an agreement. I hear, I do not know whether it is true or not that an emergency meeting has already been called for for a mandatory interpretation of the Insurance Act and I am surprised that we have not received a clear opinion from the Insurance Supervisory Agency and not a clear opinion from the Government. After all, this government opinion that we have received today only refers to the first part of the decision, which I have no problem with asking whether the Constitutional Court holds up or not. That's how I understood on the committee yesterday. However, in that part of the problem where there was a lot of discussion on the committee yesterday, how the Constitutional Court should retain certain articles of the second law or stop the proceedings. That opinion doesn't say anything about it either. Therefore, it would be right for the government to tell about this other work, for until we know it, it is very uncertain what it means, and it is difficult to make that decision. Since we believe that there are two genuinely legitimate interests, and this is one that says that the right to collect signatures for the previous legislative referendum, and because we all want to protect the interests of the insured on the other hand, we believe that, until we get this explanation, we cannot define ourselves in a uniform way for these two decisions, and in particular because these two decisions have been taken in one decision, we will each vote on this decision at our own discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! In the Parliamentary Group, the Slovenian National Parties are convinced that less than ten Members and Members in this National Assembly know what we are going to decide today and what is going on in the National Assembly. Comrade Jerovšek, please allow me. I would also point out one very interesting introductory word from one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups before me, namely that there is a queen procedure in the parliamentary procedure. If that's true, then these days you're gang-raping the queen. But let me point out the fact. There are three such insurance companies in the Slovenian insurance area. Two of these are shareholders, one has a different status. This is the status of the mutual insurance company. In the Slovenian National Party, we aim to ensure that all three insurance undertakings have the same status so that all three insurance undertakings can carry out the same business on the market, by ensuring that the insurers of either of these three have the same future in their insurance company. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia tends to transform, it says, but transform into a future. On the basis of the annual reports, however, it is clear that if the legislator and the executive branch of power do not allow each other to reshape, then the Mutual will no longer be able to move forward, it will lose its competitive position. What does this mean for insurers and insurers, but it is probably clear to all 90 Members and Members of Parliament. It is a matter of enabling market operators who provide the same or identical service to have the same basis. Ladies and gentlemen, is this not the basis for the competitiveness that we have committed ourselves to when we join the European Union? Have we not all spoken out loud so far that it is necessary to create conditions that will allow for competitiveness and economic growth, in our case, for insurance growth? No, but those 10 Members, whom I still claim to know matter, the others do not, are blindly following the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But let me explain why. Before that, it is only because I have been stabbed several times over the past days by the duplicity of some Members who say what is meant by a social society that says that a share society is a death for a social state. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on insurance as a statutory law for the Mutual, and under this law it is also possible to reshape it, was adopted in this National Assembly on 27.1.2000. And let you be surprised by the result of this vote, in which is just a special chapter talking about the transformation of the Mutual into a Shareholder Society. It's even simpler than that. The 2000 Act states that it must be transformed into a share society. And that's what you've accepted. The emphasis is "you," not us, in 2000. A total of 61 Members were present. 53 votes in favour and no one voted against. Gentlemen and gentlemen, in 2000, none of you voted against the transformation of the Mutual into a share society. Even those gentlemen who are talking about the biggest trumpet today, how a share society will have a negative impact on citizens and citizens, how it will have a negative impact on social life. It is precisely a gentleman who has previously spoken and is sitting on my left side and who has voted, Mr Bojan Kontic, for the possibility of reshaping the Mutual. And thank God we have the opportunity at times like this to see how someone has voted in the past, what they've stood for in the past, when they've been in a different role. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, no Member has voted against the fact that, at the time of assessing the eligibility for competition on the market, the Mutual does not allow the transformation into a share society. Another emphasis I would like to highlight from this place. A share company is an economic company. A capital company is defined as defined in the Company Act. It is one of those companies, if we monitor a law that allows owners who are called shareholders to co-form the operation of this company in the market, in their shares. And the Slovenian National Party tends to do so, our law and our referendum initiative and all our efforts tend to ensure that insurers, insurers and insurers who so far have nothing but normal services get their premiums paid in the past in the form of a future share. By doing so, they will be able to exercise their rights themselves if they so desire. They can sell this stock. For what they sell it for, it is entirely irrelevant to me personally and to all other Members of the Slovenian National Party because it is their decision. But people will also gain something in exchange for overpaid premiums. And the fact is, in 1998, the premium increased by over 90% three times, but no one then asked why. The answer is in the palm of your hand. The Minister hides it or avoids the answer because during these three times the increase was only in 1998, the increases took place also in 1999, ladies and ladies, as shown in the report, the annual report endorsed by the Ministry of Finance. That's what the Mutual came out of. The mutual comes from overpaid premiums, so it is not right to follow today's government plan, which avoids or hides this fact and claims that this is not the establishment capital of the Mutual. And if we approach the transformation, let us approach such a transformation that those who have paid their shares in one form or another in 1998 and 1999 will also be paid back. It's very simple to say, there are two options ahead. Either you nationalize, you take away what they've been paying, you support it, or we reshape it, and we give people the chance to get their share back. None of you have the right to say what an individual, individual or insured person should do in the future. These are two essential differences between the proposal followed by all activities of the Slovenian National Party and the proposal, which is late, must not be forgotten by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The culprit for the situation is solely the minister with his abnormal, abnormally slow pace of work. If the Ministry responded in accordance with its programme, i.e. their work programme, there would be no situation today. If the National Assembly had respected the legislation on insurance unanimously passed in 2000, there would be no case today. Allow me to explain to you my words, that you are raping the queen, the queen of the procedure. The national party introduced the law first. I later even heard that they had asked for various services in which the laws are being applied to try to change the minute of the proposed law of the Slovenian National Party. Thank God, some officials in the National Assembly are still so right to themselves or to the State, however they have not agreed to the pressures of certain leadership. But then the leadership of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly said that the proposal of the Slovenian National Party was incomplete and thus excluded from the procedure. This has happened for the first time in the parliamentary procedure since the beginning of Parliament. Suddenly, as the first law came the government law, this is the law that will make it easier to understand the nationalisation, that is, to sustain, something where Slovenia has already been in the former Yugoslavia and which we have long since given up. And that's when the President of the National Assembly agreed, in my opinion, to an unacceptable solution to the urgency procedure, because it is in the interests of the State that we must adopt the law as a matter of urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what that means? That all those laws adopted by this National Assembly are not in the interest of the State but are in the interest of some individuals. A more frank commitment to lobbying individual groups by the leadership of the National Assembly and by the Ministry is impossible to imagine than to publicly state that all those laws which are under regular procedure in our country have a background not of public or state interest. And if this becomes the practice of the work of the National Assembly, then it is reasonable to ask about the autonomy of this branch of authority. Does it even make sense that the National Assembly achieves the status that we have after the constitution, so that we are one of the three branches of power in the Republic of Slovenia? This is, of course, a matter that no Member or Member of Parliament should have agreed to. But you've landed all but the Slovenian National Party. You've all agreed to this theory. As you know, the National Party subsequently obtained the opinion of two distinguished legal experts, those two who usually cooperate with the legislative procedure to be carried out in advance within the Government or later within the framework of the National Assembly. It is clear from this opinion that the leadership of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, of the College of the National Assembly twice violated the Rules of Procedure only in the context of a proposal for a law of the Slovenian National Party. For the first time, when he listed a government law following an emergency procedure and allowed it the urgency of a procedure with such an illogical explanation that places all the work of Parliament on the table so far. And secondly, when he withdrew the proposal from the Slovenian National Party as inadequate from the procedure, despite the clear timing of developments in Parliament. But you did it. There was a first rape. We continued in the framework of the Slovenian National Party with the initiative for a preliminary referendum. The referendum initiative was expected to be rejected after knowledge of the work of the majority of Members and Members in this National Assembly. The proposer was invited to complement this referendum initiative. So, the President of the National Assembly called on the Slovenian National Party to complete the referendum question. It's all right here. It is not right, however, that, at the same time, the President of the National Assembly, I do not know on which advice or government, according to my assessment of the government, has agreed or commanded that if the moment comes to complete the referendum issue, all these 1000 and several other signatures must be regained. This would be good if a new referendum initiative were to be taken, but not if only a referendum issue needed to be complemented. There has been another rape of that queen of democracy or procedure in our country. And the same is happening now that we have listened for the third time in the National Party to what I should say to violate the Rules of Procedure with a second referendum initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, you no longer knew or those ten who knew the matter no longer knew how to stop the National Party. That is why we have come to the so-called expert opinion within the framework of the National Assembly, which we have to say frankly that I am extremely surprised that Mr Cerar has hoped to sign under it. This opinion is, at least in my opinion, even after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, more than critical for the further development of an individual lawyer or, of course, much worse, for the development of parliamentary democracy. In this view or, rather, in this position, at least in the beginning of this position, those lawyers who later signed under this short notice, Mr Cerar, say that it would make sense that the National Assembly does not feel the only commitment to this matter, because there are several institutions in front of us that should do this by the nature of their work. The first one is the agency. I think one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups has already asked the President of the National Assembly what his promise is on Friday. As you know, we closed the meeting on Friday when the proposal was first, whether the State Assembly should call the agency under what their future position would be and the National Assembly said, not that he was not responsible. Then came another proposal to call the state council to the government to call for an agency. We didn't agree to that either in the National Assembly. Then the President of the National Assembly himself committed himself to asking the Agency personally what would be the position of the Agency until the future transformation would take place if it did. To this day, we have not come up with this answer in this room. In this room, where this question was, of course, also raised. If the answer was given, I do not know, at a friendly meeting of all the parties to Parliament, except the Slovenian National Party, of course we cannot know about it. But, as it is said, the first measure, in all logic, to carry out each of its own, would be to involve the Agency in the work or in the event, not in the work. The second answer that we have received, or another possible path that would be far more appropriate than all that you are doing now, would, of course, be that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would be united, as it would have been appropriate if all ministers and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia were to make an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 62 of the Insurance Act. So that basic article, which allows and predicts transformation, is specifically mutual, because the only society with this status is a share company. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not do so. Why? No one in this country asks that question, and despite the fact that the government should do so according to the nature of the work. So we have come or so you have come to that unenviable position that it is necessary for the third time in general to "encourage" the queen of the procedure, that is to give a negative opinion on the new referendum request of voters and voters submitted by the Slovenian National Party. What did the lawyers write this time? Those lawyers I told you about, and I have to say again, I'm surprised they trusted their, until then credible, signature under such a legal crease. For one thing, the question is unclear. We can agree on this theory, but if it's unclear, he has to ask the proposer to complete it within a period of time. They didn't do it. Not the President of the National Assembly, not the legal and legislative services have gone to this ambiguity if we agree to ambiguity. To make it easier for you, I'll tell you what this ambiguity is. First time. The legislators, or the opinion of the legal service, say that the first confusion is that we have written the word'special' in the Slovenian National Party. They say if we didn't write down "special rights," but just "justice," there would be no confusion. But why did we write "special rights"? Isn't it more than justice, therefore, a special right if someone gets something that never belonged to him? Of course it's a special right. The fact is that the State of ordinary ownership does not have exclusively'special' in citing political government rights to acquire funds that were never its own and thus to support each other. Moreover, good lawyers ask and say that there is also ambiguity in that the Slovenian National Party raises three sets of questions in the context of the referendum issue. First of all, a special law on transformation. Second, the transformation criteria. And thirdly, special rights mutual. We are giving people the opportunity to at the same time give their disagreements to three major violations in our country. But that was also unclear to you. But probably all ten of us who know the matter know that there is no question of ambiguity. The point is to adjust the procedure, the point is that people would not come back to their means, and the talk is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through its own institutions, would acquire funds that were never its own. But of course, as I said, if I were to publish this part of the legal opinion of the legislative and legal service, this would still bear the mark of ambiguity and thus the leadership of the National Assembly and the National Assembly would be forced to invite the National Party to supplement. But it was not enough to stop or to try to stop the Slovenian National Party. That is why it joined another and, in my opinion, a completely inappropriate path or theory, to mark the initiative of voters and voters, i.e. the initiative of the Slovenian National Party, as controversial from the point of view of the Constitution. And whoever read or attended the College of the President of the National Assembly, where they orally represented this huge product by the lawyers of the National Assembly, comes to the conclusion that the dictatorship, the dispute in terms of the constitutional initiative, is attributed to the Slovenian National Party because of the expectations of some individuals in this House, and also to the government, as far as possible, what will happen if so. First time. We anticipate what will happen to the congregation in the future. No one, gentlemen and ladies can predict with certainty what will happen. Another time. They predict not only what happened at the congregation but how something would happen at the congregation. And the third time. Not only will the congregation happen, not only that something will happen at the congregation but that what will happen will also have unconstitutional consequences. So three guesses. Each of these three predictions is based solely on the domain of some evil mind in our country. However, the entire national assembly has inherited this prediction and has justified or marked the initiative of the Slovenian National Party as controversial from the point of view of the Constitution. Is it controversial from the point of view of the Constitution to ask people? Is it controversial from the point of view of the Constitution that people get what they have paid too much in the past years? What kind of constitution do we have if that says it's controversial? But since it is not a fact that the Slovenian National Party's initiative would be controversial from the point of view of the Constitution, it is disputed solely by the founding capital and that the present or future availability of this capital is ready for this "to swallow" also the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, you're attracted to some media. This morning, when I read it, I know they say, but still, they say the worst is criticizing the media. I know that. I learned that ten years ago. When I read the address in Del today, as a central newspaper, that the country can get rid of if today it rejects the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, please! Can the country be saved if it does not reject the proposal of the Slovenian National Party?Oh, my God! Completely confused with people. The Slovenian National Party's proposal just rewards or, I apologize, not rewards, but repays people, all those millions of insurers that the Mutual has to get their own. The government's proposal will lead them hungry across the meadow. But you don't want to know that fact. You don't want to see it. Now you will say, not yet, because the funds that people have paid in the past should be collected by the state, but the insured and the insured have no right. Allow me to point out a partial conclusion, because I believe that in the framework of the Slovenian National Party we will then advertise that all this breach of the Rules of Procedure, that is, what I said at the outset, is a violation in relation to the law we have put into the procedure of the Slovenian National Party and which was then shown to have been a real breach, at least so said constitutional lawyers or constitutional experts. Further infringement of the necessity of the procedure of the government proposal of the law, further infringement of the first Slovenian National Party referendum initiative and further violation of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the second referendum initiative, suggests, in addition to everything I have said, that this national assembly loses its self-determination, sovereignty and that too often, and now this is already a practice, we are only becoming the tools of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly no longer has autonomy. The full instructions on how to reject the proposals of the Slovenian National Party came from a certain lobby, which is very close to the government. The leadership of the National Assembly followed these instructions. But it's just one person. Unfortunately, these instructions were followed by more than 80 Members and Members. And today, because you have no one else to defend yourself, you're talking about the theory of a violation of social rights. Because people will get what belongs to them. Do we even understand what anyone is saying? The social state will suffer because the insurance companies and the insurance companies will get theirs. I'm sorry, but it doesn't make sense. I am further hearing from a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party, who repeatedly stresses that in the event of a government proposal, a million insurers will be protected in case of success. I ask you very much how they will be protected in the long term if this mutual insurance company is not allowed on the market or to carry out any insurance business that Triglav and Adriatik can carry out. Do you know how unequal a position is that one is allowed to carry out only one business and is not allowed to carry out other insurance business or packages. The insurance companies are in the market. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! The Republic of Slovenia has long since decided on the market system of the economy, but you still do not allow all those who do some business to have the opportunity after the establishment of one and the same status, this is a share company. According to the assessment of some macro-economicists, such as experts in this area, it has been repeatedly pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a large, large part of the National Assembly, namely those 80 Members who oppose the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, will not agree to the transformation of the Reciprocal Society within a very short period of time, only this will not be able to adapt to the new market insurance requirements in Slovenia and abroad. What does this mean for mutual insurers? That doesn't mean anything good. That means very bad before. But as long as we have such people in this National Assembly, who will claim that this is good for the insured, for so long, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to say that we are a legal state or even worse, we will not be able to say that this is a country where at least some amount of logic is in the people who decide. And also, allow me to conclude. According to my assessment, there is also an important news that I think happened yesterday or today in this house. I believe in communication. I also believe in bilateral or multilateral communication. I believe that listening or complementing each other can teach us a lot and that this can lead us one step forward in the development of society. I believe that all of history has taught us this, but I don't believe in that one-sided talk, and as the three monkeys say, "Hide your eyes, your ears, and your mouth, I can't see anything, I can't hear anything, I won't say anything, and it'll be the best thing to do," so this shouldn't be happening this year in this country. It called on each other, given that the Ministry did not invite, both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as all representatives of the parliamentary groups or the leaders of the parliamentary groups, to discuss what the Government wants to say about what would happen to the Assembly, to submit its proposals, its vision. What was the minister's response? "I'm not gonna talk to you, I'm not a consultant." Please, then, how can we move forward in this country in the market area? I'm afraid that at the beginning of this year, in 2000, we started exclusively under the theory: Politics over everything. Politics is talking about transformation, politics is talking about transformation time, politics, the ruling policy is about how to live, how, why, with whom. I think that's very bad. The National Assembly should maintain so much sovereignty, and that would be the task of the first of us to ensure that we remain, if not the other, what we were under the previous government, a separate branch of government. So we can say to the government, "Don't do it right or something." But everything else happened. Those who do not believe the words of the central problem are the basic capital or starting capital for each other at the time of birth to look at the annual reports. Let's take a look at where all those financial assets came from that covered the minus. I think there were 2,500 million Slovenian tolls for the institution before the mutual auctions began. And these incentives, as I said, have weighed exclusively the insurance and insurance companies until the end of 1999, when this went into the amount of 5000 million plus. This money has come, ladies and gentlemen, whether you hide your eyes or not, through increased premiums. And also 700 and a few more million came, as is the capital of the Mutual through incentives. And if you don't admit it today, then be ashamed. The National Assembly shall decide on the working body to which the motion for a decision was not even invited, which, according to my assessment, is also a unique one in the work of Parliament, nor have you invited the applicant for a referendum, although you have discussed this application for a very, very long time, it has adopted a strange decision on the instructions of the legislative and legal service, as instructed by the Government, i.e. instructions, instructions. But all the instructions have a point of order. So the summit, the formation of instructions in the government, has given a strange conclusion, a conclusion, such a stupid decision, which has not yet been adopted in parliamentary practice. A decision that predicts what will happen one day, one day, and that result will be unstoppable. With this, you know that you are interfering not only with the referendum law, not only in the rules of procedure, I think, in the highest legal act in our country, this is in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And of course, which is interesting, because not only are you trying to prevent, the President of you, not only are you trying to prevent all the acts given by the Slovenian National Party in the procedure given correctly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you are trying to prevent us from initiating a referendum idea, the initiator of the law would have as little opportunity as possible to perform, speak and give views in this National Assembly. Yesterday at that meeting, which had the group denominator interrupt and end of the postponement, the representative of the Slovenian National Party always appeared to the word: procedurally, in any other way. The president of the National Assembly missed him, his assistant missed him. But he missed it politically. And we've started the session today, in my opinion, in an incomprehensible way. If we are talking about the initiative of the Slovenian National Party, let us not give a word to the instigator, but only to those who criticize the initiative, it is unacceptable and I sincerely hope that this will not become a practice of the work of the National Assembly. However, I hope that insurance and insurance companies will get their own and that the Slovenian National Party will succeed in its views, in its aspirations and that in 2006 a new element or a new area of nationalisation of assets will not succeed to the government and a large part of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Pache, let me have the replica. In your long presentation, you've wasted a series of insinuations not to say lies and insults. However, the main problem is that you talked for 32 or 33 minutes, and at least half an hour about everything possible, but not the content of the debate. I did not interrupt you, because some of you have already come from the path of discussion, so that this will not be repeated in the future, especially with regard to Mr Pečet, please, we are not discussing the Mutual, nor the transformation of the Mutual, nor the Insurance Agency and the Insurance Act, but the requirement for a constitutional review of the referendum initiative. Please, let us be so correct and stick to the content of the debate. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. In doing so, I remind you that every Member is only discussing this once. Please raise your hands: Mr Bajc, Mr Brenčič, Barovic, Pavliha, Pece, Saiovic, Potrč, Squeak. Anyone else? Anderlich, Rupar, Sok, Gulič, Pukšič, Jerovšek, Friday Miro. Anybody else want to discuss this? Kumer, Germich. Each of the Members declared shall have five minutes to discuss. Mr. Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I must conclude with at least one sentence that in more than half a speech by a colleague, a representative of the Slovenian National Party, and in all the insults he commented only one insult when he said that less than ten Members know what we are dealing with today. However, I would have found that less than six Members would probably have followed him, and among those less than six would have counted him. I think that you yourself have found in the introduction that he has not even discussed for five minutes from this good half hour on the agenda that we see on the board and that we have before us. And with regard to this item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, and with regard to this item of the agenda and a proposal for a decision addressed by the home labour body, which discusses the initiative of the national assembly, what should be done to avoid what should not happen, and what the colleague of Pec has spoken about for a long and wide period on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. I will personally support the proposal for a decision at both points, as adopted by the parent working body, for one simple reason; and precisely what colleague Pece said in the presentation of the Slovenian National Party that we do not want to allow the insurance company to change or transform into a share society. Yes, my God, where are we sitting, or did we even look at the material? Article 2 of the Act states: "The transformation of a mutual insurance company established under the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance shall be governed by law." And so, "The law must determine the criteria, conditions and procedures for the transformation of the mutual insurance company from the preceding paragraph to the share company..." - that I wouldn't read given that we all have this material. In order not to do so, it is an initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum. Now I wonder what would have been the result of any outcome of the referendum, probably three months from now, given that the Mutual Assembly was convened on 1 February. For this reason, if possible, I will push two keys to adopt the decision proposed by the home working body of this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Pache made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u22	It is confirmed that few people know in this National Assembly, and Comrade Bajc is certainly not among them. The fact is that in the first version of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sought to define 90 % of members or 90 % of insurers in writing until the transformation. You know what 90% is? This means that we should notify ourselves in writing with our agreement of over 800 000 Slovenes and Slovenes, and if we look at a little of our memory, we see that this is a number that has not been reached at any referendum. Later, the government missed it and turned 90% into three quarters, but it's still 700 thousand. Who's into reshaping? Those who impose impossible conditions for transformation and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia make them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Brenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On the issue of this decision, I am not deepening what she has done and what the government has not done and what the insurance agency should not have done. However, I firmly believe that there is a large financial hole in the operation of the Mutual Insurance Company, and this financial hole further increases the functioning of the current administration every day. The reason or the ground for which the current administration has decided to rapidly transform the mutual insurance company into a share company and thus not to substantiate this hole, but only to cover, in essence, on the shoulders of all these groups of insurers who, on the basis of reciprocity, have entrusted their premiums to each other, their expectation of this mutual premium. To this end, the procedure under which the National Assembly adopts laws is being misused, and the law is being used as the basis or basis for the implementation of these laws. In addition, the European high-elevated principle of reciprocity is being misused in addition to solidarity in today's social society of Europe. All for that purpose. Because we are a few, the legislator, on this side weak, I strongly support the proposal to rule that in such a state the Constitutional Court, as the last guardian of constitutionality and legality, cuts this issue apart. That is why I support the decision. But after ten years of working in the Slovenian Parliament, if I have not understood anything so far what political corruption is, from now on it is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues! If the debate in the National Assembly were to be about the content of one or the other law, if this national assembly, as it has already found a thousand times that one or another marriage is bad, would be rejected and something else would happen, it would be perfectly normal. Unfortunately, everything that's going on in all of these experiments, and I'm sure of it right now, it's insane because there are already three or four attempts to prevent something that we haven't talked about in the first place. You have to admit it or not. That's why I'm asking about today's content. Is it possible that you already have a scenario for the fourth option if, by chance, the Constitutional Court finds or assesses that the referendum initiative is constitutional? I wonder what scenario you've got going on. It can happen and the Constitutional Court will find that the initiative is constitutional. And there's another thing that's completely - which I'm ashamed to read in the legislative and legal service report. The Slovenian national party has tabled a preliminary legislative referendum. Logic says that the previous legislative referendum is probably a question or a desire to learn from people whether the law that will be adopted is appropriate or not. The subsequent legislative referendum, however, asks people whether the law is appropriate or not. And if we ask whether a law that is appropriate or not is totally inappropriate and completely contrary to the sentence in the last paragraph: "Introducing a referendum initiative", i.e. the previous referendum, "impossible completion of the legal procedure", that is, it prevents the adoption of the law. Yeah, what else is that, people of God? However, if people say in the previous referendum that they are for the law to be in force, they will be adopted. And that such a claim is made by the diplomats of the law that the previous legislative referendum prevents - yes, because that is his purpose. And I think it may be shameful to write something like this in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and in the proposal of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. In the beginning, I apologize immediately, because if a person discusses the rabbit and its eating habits, it is imperative to touch the roots as well. So if I go any further than the conclusion or suggestion, you must kindly excuse me. I still hesitate on my own whether to abstain or to support this decision. In fact, I have a painful feeling that we are deciding on something that we should not even decide if the government does what is right. The story of the Mutual has been going on for some time now, and it has started to happen quite forcefully a few months ago when the Mutual began to issue certificates that the legal profession has condemned as illegal and sold or evaluated for materially less than the economic profession. There have also been some violations that we have been forced to react to in mid-December by a question sent to the Prime Minister at the Liberal Democracy Club. We were pleased to learn that the Prime Minister shares our concerns with us. Then nothing happened for a while, except for some more or less lax statements by the Minister of Health. There is absolutely no reaction by the Minister of Finance and little action by the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which, by the way, falls under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. In doing so, it should be noted and, in fact, rightly said that the Mutual has not behaved in the past, not knowing how unfairly, but even tried to get an opinion from both the Agency and the Ministry of Health, how to change the statutes and how to meet all the conditions for the Assembly to be transformed, that this Assembly will reflect more fully the wishes of all members, namely, currently, as you know, there are 33 members in the Assembly, which represents approximately 0.003% of all insured persons, which does not need further comment. But after the Mutual addressed a letter to the Agency, the Agency 4.1 replied that it was not competent to provide such information and that the Mutual should contact the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health replied this way 5.1. I quote only one sentence, "so we advise you that, in a specific case, if the answers to the questions raised in your letter are not found alone or with the help of your legal experts, you will hire appropriate advisers". Yes, dear colleagues, this is not a constructive solution to the problems. Thank God, then the Minister came up with a proposal for a law that was written in the first version a little awkwardly, because if it was adopted, then the Mutual should transform into mutual, then we added the word "when possible transformation" so that, of course, taking into account the origins of the special law on property transformation. [[...]] Let me say here that I myself am not but a priori against transforming the Mutual into a shareholder society, not least this possibility exists under the insurance law. And if future shareholders, current members, want such a status change, they should have it. But let them have it in a just manner, and let them have it according to predetermined rules. The Insurance Act does not provide for such a specific situation when it was the founder of an institution, not for example some natural or legal persons. And so do not burn fires, we can wait half a year, we can wait one year to get the right legislation and, of course, any transformation takes place or takes place in a way that will be just for all and no one will be harmed. And maybe a word about the initiative. I was convinced by the opinion, unlike the National Party, of Dr Cerar's excellent colleague and, of course, of her colleague Ogrinchev. And I wonder how a parliamentary group, where there are no lawyers, can label such an opinion by means of a "legal crotch" and a "large-scale product". Dear colleagues and colleagues, in a few days we'll be deciding on an ethical code, which is very insulting to me. Dr. Cerar is a domestic and internationally recognized lawyer who is a professor, a doctor at the Ljubljana Law School. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Peche. He's quitting. Mr. Saiovic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the Minister and co-workers. I will support this conclusion with a heavy heart. He supported because I appreciate the content that goes in this direction, so that we can spend their money on the mutuals not on dividends and profits, but on what they have secured, that they will have more health services at their disposal and will benefit from them. Of course, it is a procedure that we have been dealing with for a few days in this national assembly, and I must say this, quite strange. Therefore, the discussions of colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, to whom I am now and in the last days with pleasure and interest, also have a lot of salt and it is time to think seriously about the story. Obviously all 9ths in the National Assembly are our goal together, at the top of the hill, the same and the same, we differ only in ways to get there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I will support the proposals for conclusions proposed by my mother's working body; not as an ideal one, but as an answer that can be answered today, at that time, that the National Assembly will give to the situations in which we are in a position to prevent abuse in the area of property transformation of the Mutual. I stress once again if it wants to prevent the possibility of abuse, because I do not hope to continue to claim that these abuses are 100%, and even less I hope to say that they are not possible and probable in everything that is going on. I would like us to take the time and buy time to assess all the elements of these options or consequences, and I think this is an experiment that we are doing today within the scope of the possibility. Where are those things that, in my opinion, we have not formed together in the country in an appropriate manner and which are why we are in this situation. First, I think, I firmly believe that for such a situation the government bears the first responsibility and also a very large responsibility. Why? If we have heard for a long time that there is a different way of interpreting - in the insurance agency, in the competent insurance companies, even in the Mutual, the government is not finished - article 62 of the insurance law, then it would probably be right to find out in time what is to be done in this regard. If the article is unclear, if we explain it differently, it is probably not right to allow in advance all possible different interpretations without consequences there until the dispute is resolved through the court, if we know that there is a problem. And here I think that, in the first place, the government is most responsible and should do something in this direction also because the insurance agency is ultimately an integral part of the Ministry of Finance as a relatively independent body, but nevertheless within this competence. Second. The law was prepared at a time when we had to accept it under an emergency procedure in which we had together ten days or a misplaced day more time; and this is another responsibility that the government has. Thirdly, I would like to stress and to which the conduct of the Mutual does not give me full confidence, and I must also say to the Slovenian National Parties, which are acting to enable the Mutual to take decisions on transformation on 1 February. The only reason I can see in the Mutual is that the lack of confidence in the authorities to adopt just solutions, the only reason they have never said that, but on the contrary, they say that they themselves have also converted the relevant legislation, which should have transformed the criteria, conditions, content of the transformation from mutual society into a share society. But if that is true and if we sincerely want to do so, then we should be prepared to wait another week, fourteen days, two months after February 1st and do so later under conditions that would be considered acceptable together without the possibility of harm to the insured. However, the Mutual was not prepared to do so, nor were the referendum candidates willing to do so. In this regard, there is a reason for me to be dismayed and for which I believe that it is possible to decide today that a request is made to the Constitutional Court, because if the sole purpose is to take a referendum decision in order to prevent the adoption of a law setting out the criteria and to allow a recast to take place on 1 February without clear criteria, then I think that these are unacceptable purposes contained in such a request for a referendum and that we have the right to make the decisions that she has proposed. All the first conclusions on the reasons why we came into this situation remain, and I think that the government should seriously think about its actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u34	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister. What has been happening in the National Assembly for the past three days is, of course, to make an assessment that this is not good for Slovenia, nor for those who have entrusted additional insurance with the Mutual, not for democracy and, finally, not for this National Assembly. After failure by the Insurance Supervisory Agency to carry out what is prescribed by the law, the law clearly provides that the restructuring of the Mutual Insurance Company requires the authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and that this authorisation may be refused if the conversion could jeopardise the interests of the members of the Mutual Insurance Company. The insurance agency did not make any of these moves. Yesterday, Mr Cerar said well, it is a matter of issuing the same document as a building permit. And no one first builds a house and then asks for a building permit, but, of course, before the construction begins, they must obtain a permit. Of course, I'm surprised at the government, I even hear the Minister of Finance yesterday, somewhere he said he couldn't have any effect on the insurance agency, and that's not true. If the Government was in doubt whether the Agency was issuing a permit or agreement, then, under Article 149, the Government, as one of the applicants in Rule 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, could have proposed an authentic explanation. But obviously there was no such desire or interest. What we read in newspapers today also points to the relationship of another minister on the issues of reshaping societies for mutual insurance, when we are not an advisory service. And after the government has obviously failed to do what the law requires, the government, together with the authorities, in this case an independent insurance agency, which is still an agency whose government sets a framework of action, the budgetary framework, in this national assembly, we set the means for its operation, after the agency has failed to do so, the government has put forward something to do with the national assembly - to adopt the law that we have on the agenda today. I regret that this time, if I am not mistaken, for the second time in this national assembly - for the first time in the case of deleted - we will stop the legitimate right of a group of Members to request a preliminary referendum. And I have a problem supporting the proposed conclusions myself. In particular, I have a problem of supporting another of the proposed decisions because this second decision actually says that neither the insurance agency has done its job, nor the government nor the national assembly, but now the Constitutional Court should be the one who, under the so-called Constitutional Court Act, will stop something or protect the interests of the insurers, for whom the Insurance Act has made it clear that they must be protected by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. That's what we got her for. And yesterday we found some formula, lawyers say it's the right formula. Politically it has been said that we have very rarely used it, this time we will use it for the second time, and within this formula I think that for the first time from the Constitutional Court we will expect the Constitutional Court to do what the executive branch of power should do. Responsibility moves from the executive branch to the legislative branch of the authorities and eventually to the judiciary. That's why I have problems supporting this, if you want, abuse of procedure as queen of democracy. However, I think that what has been proposed - and I hope that we will succeed this week - is a clear guide to the authentic interpretation of Article 62 of the Insurance Act, of the way in which we will tell the Agency clearly: dear agency, issue permits, issue building permits and do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u36	Mr President, in your intervention earlier, when you wanted to quell this debate, you said that today we are discussing a proposal for a decision to raise with the Constitutional Court the question whether this is a question that the applicants want to put to the referendum, constitutionally or not. It is therefore quite strange that yesterday such a failure occurred in this decision and that the handball took place on the committee itself, where we are actually extending this requirement to retain all the rules which provide for the possibility of transforming a mutual insurance company into a share company, neither in the proposal for a decision nor in the explanation which rules govern it. This is even more strange because from Friday to yesterday or to today nothing has happened that would convince us that the National Assembly is governed by a rule called respect for the rules and initiatives that take place on the basis of this in the National Assembly. In fact, I have now also found that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly has already been convened for tomorrow and that an extraordinary meeting will be held to discuss, we suppose, one of the acts referred to in this second paragraph. Well, I don't know what we're actually doing. If we take this decision fully and send it to the Constitutional Court, and tomorrow we will do something else about the Insurance Act - this is what that extraordinary meeting and the mandatory interpretation are about. That is why I have already said in the introduction that it would be right to try to obtain information on the consequences of this transformation. I am sure that if the will of such a government, of the National Assembly - it is obvious, except for one party - to protect the interests of the insured, then it is indisputable that the Agency for Insurance Control has the power or to give a prior authorisation for the transformation, at least if that opinion prevails that only after the Assembly has taken place will there be agreement that the consent to recast be denied if the arguments for which the law has been tabled, if the arguments currently preventing the collection of 40,000 signatures are correct. And here, in fact, it is unfair or whatever the person would say to it that those who have drafted the law, which have all the mechanisms in hand, eventually also assured the President of the National Assembly that by yesterday he would give or obtain the opinion of both the agency and probably other institutions, what would happen in this case. I can assume that all things are predictable and are, in sayings, "under control." And I believe that there can be no transformation of the Mutual into a shareholder society without the agency's consent, thus indirectly all those who have or do not have an influence on the agency. However, I think that, despite all of this, the government has or is obliged to obtain from the Agency some assurance of what will happen in such or otherwise. And that's why you pushed us into a position where we can't be right - at least it's sacred to me that I can't put on the one hand the right to collect signatures in direct contravention of the right to protect these insurers. For, as I understand, those who now wish to prevent or ensure this transformation by referendum also refer to the interests of the insurers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Since you have already forgotten the order of the debaters, I will remind you of who will be next every time. Mr Rupar has the floor to prepare Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, my agreement to these decisions will be a recognition which I will devote to the government and the minister in the effort to preserve the right of the insured to what they have invested in each other's insurance company. With this effort, you, colleagues and colleagues should not regret the three days that we have not actually lost, but we have experienced in this National Assembly, because it was in the background of this marked struggle to preserve integrity and prevent wild privatisation. If previous governments were so busy and were so careful about the lumpariums that took place in Slovenia, today there would be a lot more richer people in this country and much less super rich people who, on the basis of the permits given by the previous government rather than not working to prevent privatisations, were in this country. Therefore, I believe this government and I believe Mr Bručan much more than I would believe some Golobradem Jaklič, who has been misleading the Slovenian nation to send some false certificates in order to preserve the people who would then, on the basis of their property invested in the Mutual, simply cheat. I can quite argue this because the privatisation that we all know about, that is, this savage privatisation, they had in their heads and that is their purpose. And those who are working so vigorously and so savagely to prevent the purpose of the State and the Minister have only two items: whether you are crazy or well paid, the other I do not see in this effort. I will certainly continue to believe that it is a sincere desire to preserve the property and property of the insured in the Mutual and Desiring to be preserved in the Mutual slogan: You, for me, for you. Especially because I'm in front of Jaklic, who's the CEO, in one of my fantasies, he's already seen the inscription, "I'm me, you're me." I wish you every success in preserving what is ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Sok. Get Mr. Gulic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! As I see this happening, I could say that this is a school case of law enforcement. And at this point in time the National Assembly has become some kind of hostage to the Mutual and Slovenian National Parties, whose representatives say: "We are not interested in any other than that these people get shares for their premiums, but what they will then do with these shares and we are not interested." But look, most of us are in the National Assembly, which we do not agree with this logic of thinking, because the Mutual was created by some procedure, and because we are aware that this Mutual should actually play the function that created it. We, for example, pay large amounts in this country after natural disasters. In the long term, payments in the form of a mutual fund as well as a risk fund should also be settled within the framework of the Mutual Insurance Company. Will we set up a new insurance company for this purpose? I don't think so. At this point, it is only necessary to do everything possible to ensure that this insurance company, the Mutual, somehow remains on this line and that this intention, which is being set before us at this moment, is somehow prevented. And you have to do everything in this direction and it doesn't matter if we sit for three days, four, five days, it's important that we do it. I heard a debater earlier who said, "The Agency hasn't done its job." The surveillance agency, it was said, is like a body that gives a building permit. But in this case, it's this problem that this Mutual Work is without this permission. They didn't ask for permission. You're saying this law is clear, according to the law, the agency should do this and that. But they didn't even ask for that permission. They work with help, I hear that eminent lawyers, which I don't know if they do, but what I can see is that this Mutual spends a lot of money to advertise his work. What we see in electronic media every day costs a lot. And what money is it, if not the money of the 900,000, or how many insurers who pay these premiums to provide additional health insurance? So this nonsense has to be stopped and it's not just a matter of government here. You're saying the government should do it, the government should do it. No, the government and the National Assembly, because the law is adopted by the National Assembly and the National Assembly, has all the mechanisms in its hands, including the fact that at this point it can send this referendum issue, which is very complicated, to the Constitutional Court, and also that it can adopt a mandatory basis for a certain law or a certain article of law. I am very pleased that here, in fact, the opposition and the position are in the same position and that the desire of one and the other is in fact the same, and that the position and opposition are rarely so united or so united, and this is good for all our citizens and citizens, that they also get this message that we are defending a single interest and that we will all, together with the government, this intention of these gentlemen sitting there, also prevent. I have no doubt that we will succeed and, once again, it doesn't matter how long we sit together, how important it is that we make a decision. And if we've come to this situation, then it's only right to bring this matter to a close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Gulič has the floor to prepare Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u42	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The swamp in which we were pushed, of course, by this happening around the Mutual, is getting deeper. I must say that, of course, I am most concerned about the fate of all insurers, the mutual or its reciprocity, and that is why, of course, in some way, I have been agreeing to all these events in the last days. Although I must say that, of course, none of us has the right to any way to deny the right to a referendum, to the question raised by the Slovenian National Party. Of course, at this point, it is the National Assembly, as Mr Sok said, in some way, he says that we are dealing with the same function, but it is essentially a mess in which the government's inaction and, say, parallel bodies has brought us into. This has made the National Assembly an executive once again, says one who has to do something because the government has not done its own. Worse! In fact, it puts it on the third branch of power now. It's all mixed up. I think that, in fact, it is in some ways also the degraded function of all of us 90 here or 80, as far as we are going to the National Assembly. In fact, the fact that things have become so complicated may also be a matter of will. I don't know if it's just an accident. What if it's all on purpose, what if it's some hidden deal again, what if it's some kind of deception again? In fact, I can hardly believe that such skilled politicians could happen by chance. That is why I also have a problem with this Decision, in particular with the second part of the decision, with the second paragraph. And it's hard to make decisions, in fact, because you always decide what's bad, it's more or less bad. I hope that the matter will end in a way that the Mutual will remain mutual, it is said that this will work as it was intended and so that it will be for the benefit of all insurers, not just a few insurers or just a few people who would later supervise, say, the Mutually as a state institution. In any case, it is necessary to resolve the matter by remaining human and by remaining human even if it is delayed, let’s say that they are doing something different within a share society. But the question remains, what will be the consequences for all those who have cooked this mess, it is said, for the ministers involved, as well as for the President of the National Assembly, who has, in fact, put the State Assembly in a position to decide what the government is supposed to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Get ready, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it is right to tell the Slovenes and the Slovenians that our primary work is to protect the legitimate rights of citizens and citizens of this country alone. Regardless of the institutions which are parallel or perform certain specific tasks, and if they do not do them as necessary, then the National Assembly must indeed do so because it is the only one that is legislative to resolve matters. If not, it ultimately has the highest possible power it can use when adopting constitutional matter. Or, in other words, I think it would be right to say that this national assembly, both the position and the opposition, will act only in the interests of these insurers and, if necessary, will also benefit from the last instrument it has. It is true that in the past ten years strange legislation has been adopted too much, I can even say corrupt legislation, such legislation, which has given some individuals and others in these institutions the possibility of huge places of social property. We know these stories, but of course they have happened at the expense of citizens and citizens, and today we have some click richly, and this is truly rich, also at the expense of these 90,000 unemployed who are still in our country. That is why I think the greatest interest and must be the interest and legitimate right of this National Assembly to protect these citizens and citizens from the interest of some individuals who work again for a few individuals and make sure that, at the expense of a million insured persons and more, they are enriched. In fact, things took place yesterday on the working body by means of a proposal from the legal service, the first paragraph of the proposal concluded that the opposition had an additional proposal to conclude that the coalition had an additional proposal for a decision and together, both the position and the opposition, are or have been harmonising on the committee. Thus, the whole decision was reached with the first and second paragraphs, which is clear that without the second paragraph the first paragraph would actually be too small. I am therefore confident that the whole decision will be adopted with the first and second paragraphs, and I myself will support it in the legitimate interest of those who have voted to represent them here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. There are eight more registered, including the minister. That's 40 minutes tops. It means that the vote is expected to take place at 12.40 p.m. Mr Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Petek Miro.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I will also support these proposed decisions for today's meeting, because I think we really need to do everything we can to protect the interests of the insured. However, in fact, I am in some way unhappy that we must fight so franticly to protect the interests of the insured and that we must actually call on the Constitutional Court as the last institution that can stop the intention of a group of people to privatise something that is already in the word of mutual interest. In fact, here, as is the explanation of the law to which these decisions relate, as well as the referendum initiative, are written, which principles must be protected: the principle of equality against law, the principle of legal certainty, the principle of protection and the protection of the public interest of supplementary insurance and the principle of the protection of the interests of consumers or insurers. And if, for the first time, these principles are at stake, if the whole of Slovenia is saying that it is an attempt at wild property and the interests of some individuals to inflame this matter before the state, against the insured, I wonder why the state has not been more involved. In fact, if there is a suspicion of injury, in my opinion, the criminal police could do more or in such a case even specific methods and means are allowed to determine whether this was at the back of all of this. In fact, it may sound strange that I'm also in favour of this, but I wonder if I can, and it's in some way also an invitation to all those who can use all legitimate means to prevent damage. I think that's necessary. And now, look here, when the predecessor actually stated that in this case the Insurance Supervisor did not do his job. I must say that, on the basis of my experience, this is one of the institutions I trust most in this country on the basis of what was happening, what this institution did under the same leadership when my colleague, Rob, as a finance minister, fought against the wild privatisation of the Triglav insurance company under the leadership of then-director Nada Klemenčič. He came to the committee - I think it was on the Committee on the Economy at the time - for help and we helped him in all ways by the opposition there. Some of his present - day party colleagues sitting around him were grinding their teeth because they wanted this private interest of leading then the insurance company Triglav. [[Too bad my buddy's not here.]] Look, that's why I also believe that the agency has done everything possible in this case, and these allegations are, in my opinion, unjustifiable. But in such opinions, I fear, and also for the announcement of today's vote, I fear that the unity that everyone has predicted is already lost. In fact, there are some Members here who have already had a different opinion, a different vote, according to some conscience, announced and I think that there are other interests behind here and that there is no longer this strong unity that is necessary for this. And there's something else I'd like to warn you. I think that a moment of subconscious took place in the performance of Comrade Pečet, when he said that the proposal of the Slovenian National Party was the one that rewarded some individuals and then began to apologize that it was not a reward, but that it prevented the award. It must have been a moment of unconsciousness. In fact, I would like to make this proposal [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To prevent or disable signatures, there was a reward that some group of people in the Mutual would be rewarded and some interests - I don't know who was behind them - would be rewarded. [[...]] And I hope that all of this won't happen and also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Pache made contact with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u48	Comrade Jerovšek, I believe that you are quite often in moments of unconsciousness, but I do not think that this should affect the situation in this national assembly, but I would like to speak in connection with misunderstanding or inability to understand and explain. See when the stock talk - the stock is a securities that reflects the management right behind it and, of course, the right to share assets. This in no way interferes, economically and substantively, in a moment of reciprocity. Therefore, an equivalent certificate with a share is, of course, matter or the consequence of ignorance. He liked to touch himself once again, with the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, we aim exclusively to ensure that the insured and insured who overpaid the premiums in 1998 receive the money back. The operation of a share company is regulated by a company law. Comrade Jerovšek, listen because you do not understand the content. And based on the stock, it is possible to dispose of the stock in any form, but the individual wants it. No one in the National Party hopes and will ever tell shareholders how to work or what management right to extract through this share: whether to sell it - for how much - or to transfer it to a daughter, to a son, to anyone. In short, according to the proposal of the National Party, people, members of the Mutual, Insurance and Insurance Group would naturally have free access to these shares. This means that their decision is whether or not to sell it or to transfer it to someone else or not. Therefore, it is not appropriate to say that, at this point in the company, there is a violation, either by the national state or by the principle of reciprocity. The decision is with the individual. Why, then, dear gentlemen, who have so much slander and talk, do not oppose the functioning of Adriatica and, of course, Triglav, who are both shareholders. We want nothing more than to allow the Mutual to operate on the market with those packages than its two other competing companies. And also a speech, look when it was said by trust in each other. The Assembly was convened last year, since last year we already know that the Assembly will be this and that day, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia came up with a proposal for its law last week. Yeah, who's gonna adjust? The mutual called on the government, the political parties, to tell them their suggestions, and as I said, the minister said, "I have nothing to talk to you, I am not a consultant!" What kind of communication is this, what progress is this? Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u49	Mr Rop also made contact with the replica. Mr. Robb has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I wanted to speak with you about what was said by Mr Jerovsk. So there may be some parallels and similarities in the case of owned insurance company Triglav and Mutual. Of course, they do not hold to some of the facts that have been told here. First of all, it is necessary to say that, as far as the Mutual is concerned, we have not exactly witnessed any great government activity in terms of trying to prevent wild property or, if you wish, damage. As you know, in the National Assembly, we had a question sent to the Prime Minister why the government is not doing anything about this and why it is not doing anything. What followed was what we could monitor, and the law was introduced. Despite the fact that the law was introduced, and despite the fact that the referendum initiative was given, when we were the President of the National Assembly, we witnessed only us, Members and Members of the National Assembly, there was no government anywhere, no government proposal, no initiative regarding the Insurance Supervisory Agency, there was no government initiative on the part of the government: what we are doing today, and what we are doing today could be done by the government itself, sent to the Constitutional Court and raised these questions. So that we are in such a time crisis today is undoubtedly the responsibility of the government. As for the insurance company Triglav, and I tell you that the government and then the Minister of Finance, that was when I, triggered the constitutional dispute, fought in the Constitutional Court, I was probably one of the few who fought in the Constitutional Court himself against all the lawyers, lawyers on the side of the then leadership of the insurance company Triglav, and as a government, we received a constitutional dispute as the Ministry of Finance. And as for decision-making in the National Assembly, it was clear at the time that the government's decision, the government's opinion that it was for such a law, was a coalition and indeed, Mr Jerovšek, was also an opposition and we united ourselves with one goal in order to prevent wild property and damage and we succeeded because the government was active and because the opposition and the position were united and we succeeded. And the same is true in the case of the Mutual. If we do, and if we do, then we can do it in the end. And it's true that we've already missed some things, that we're too late, and now we're in serious trouble, and we don't know if we're going to make it, but I believe we're all going to try to make it work for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, there is no replica on the replica. It was indeed an insult, but these insults are already quite common in the National Assembly. Mr. Friday Mira, you have the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, everyone in this room. I will support the decisions, but I also support the draft law transmitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure. I think it is the first time in the history of independent Slovenia that the government is trying to prevent damage beforehand. For the past 15 years, we have witnessed the practice of discussing injury and suspicious privatisation and having been familiar with "post festivals", indeed, that the privatisation and injury at the time were more sophisticated, and this time we are witnessing an interesting phenomenon, we are witnessing that this attempt of injury is almost lively. The mutual offers certificates, shares, dividends and, in some ways, this is really very inviting, but in the background there is poison, and citizens of Slovenia have come to know it, and most in this national assembly have also come to know it. And if we assume that in the Mutual Reformation under the leadership scenario, the Mutual does succeed, then the question may still be raised as to the meaning of this Parliament. Then we are a Member here a beautiful cartoon of democracy and the National Assembly becomes a disabled national assembly. In this case, we need to think about disbanding Parliament and transferring power to the so-called fifth branch of power, which is still present in Slovenia. The fifth branch of government is those individuals who, in strange circumstances, have come to capital, to a large financial capital and have social and political power to do so. These are the individuals who ignore the legislation and democratic institutions of the Republic of Slovenia. This fifth branch of power in power will not be long before the next revolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Kumer has the floor to prepare Mr Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I myself will support the proposal for a decision on constitutional review, although I must say that I do not think that all of this would be necessary if the government and the monitoring agency played their role in a timely manner when the Mutual Launched Publicly with their activities, which is some time ago. It is also about assessing, assessing and predicting what can happen when a law is passed or supplemented, as we did last year in July, when we were supplementing the Insurance Act. And since this judgment was not within the executive branch, because the Mutual was not one of the government's priorities, we are where we are today. And this situation, this situation has been used to express itself with modern human resources slang, not "old boys", but "jung boys" with the Mutual, who know very well that we are currently in the post-transitional period in which, of course, the property of civil silver is owned. In this case, it is an illustrative example of a transformation into a share company where the mutual management would control owners and not owners, the insurers would control the administration. This is, of course, not a normal situation and therefore a special law is needed to set more precise criteria for transformation into a share society. And in the end. It is also, of course, that we are in such a situation today, as a result of the situation, behaviour and situation in this national assembly in the last year, when one of the opposition parties plays the role of a discount for cows' political trades. The strategic owner of this discount is, of course, a ruling coalition. And today we have a situation where the board came to this discount or the mutual management before the government coalition, and that's why we have this situation today. And that's it. And so once again: in the interests of the insurers, and without this damage being done, I will support this decision for a constitutional assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Germić has the floor to prepare Mr Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I could agree with this, but it has been said many times now, as the representatives of the Slovenian National Party have said, that the proposal to transform the Mutual on the table has been, in fact, a very long time and that those who should do a lot of things could do so, but not that we are now in a situation where the National Assembly is, in fact, looking for ways to make possible transformation of the Mutual into a shareholder society in a transparent way from moment to moment. Here I think it's the government, I'll use the term "cheap" the mutual problem. I would not like to use the expression that she acted on purpose as she did, and brought the matter to a point when she could not understand or misunderstood the thinking at the July meeting when we proposed a solution to each other. And, of course, I cannot join those who say that the government has acted successfully to prevent this lumparium, because in fact the key warning to prevent this lumparium has come from the opposition types. Of course, when we talk about these ways of work that the National Assembly has been doing in recent days here, we have all the interest to protect the insurers that we are in the Mutual. And here is the dilemma that exists, because so we, who somehow oppose the proposals advocated by the Slovenian National Party, defend the interests of the insured, also the representatives of the Slovenian National Party speak about this interest. At least in my opinion, given that we have three forms, i.e. two equity companies and one mutual insurance company, I think it is important to draw attention here to genetics and the way in which individual insurance companies are designed and the involvement of individual insurers in this insurance. And, of course, I could not agree that insurance companies in the Mutual have nothing and that we want to obtain this or the certificate and later the stock-backed securities, that this is the objective for which we are included in the mutual insurance company. In my view, the key and fundamental objective of why we are involved in this insurance company is to exercise our rights from compulsory health insurance, which are then insured in supplementary health insurance. Of course, this transformation is now placed in a very fast time frame and, of course, a number of issues have arisen here in which we are doing so. I would not want to be either in the interest of these or others - which was also said here today that we are talking about some form of political corruption or that someone who advocates a solution is crazy or well paid - would not want to be in a discussion on one side or the other. Of course, the proposer himself today, or representatives of the Slovenian National Party, when Parliament is looking for a solution to this transformation, the transformation is transparent, of course he is expressing a great deal of evidence to the government, which is looking for ways and also proposing a special law for this transformation. Of course, I would like this Parliament to think about the content of preventing corruption when it comes to such or other insinuations in the air and in what way it would be in favour of certain interests. This National Assembly deals with this content and wants to look for solutions when it is possible to explore such problems and open issues that are put in another light this time on the table. Here, of course, we now have the same party in both roles, and there will be an important decision before the National Assembly in the third reading on another proposal. There were a lot of words on the parent board around the conclusion that is here today on the table. We were more or less united around the first paragraph, but of course the second paragraph actually opens up some of the dilemmas that have already been raised here today and raises some doubts about individual decisions in support of these.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Mr. Friend is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Members. I also, of course, think that the situation is critical and that it is necessary to react. We believe - I also, of course, join the opinion of those who warn that there may be damage to 900,000 insurers. I also believe that action must be taken, but of course we are clearly different in our opinion on who should act. I will abstain from this proposal, and I will abstain simply because I believe that the government has made a move, that there is an appropriate insurance agency that can and should have acted long ago, and nothing happens. Ladies and gentlemen, he imagines that Slovenia is at risk of flooding. The National Assembly has been meeting at an extraordinary meeting for the third day and is discussing this, the Administration of Protection and Rescue would have done nothing, the Slovenian Government would not have met at all. Everyone would probably be appalled by the conduct of the government, the competent institutions. In our particular case, the interest of 900,000 insurers and insurers is compromised. We have no idea what the government's position on this issue has been, nor has one extraordinary meeting been able to deliver an appropriate conclusion in public. When, in the case of the insurance company Triglav, the interest of the citizens and the taxpayers in the country was threatened, the then Minister of Finance went to fight, to fight at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia - and he won. The current Minister of Finance is not even in this house. It is still not there, it is the third day of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Minister of Finance, who is the Minister of Finance of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, we have not yet seen him. And that seems inappropriate to me. I find it really inappropriate, because I agree that there is a consensus between both members of the coalition and between the vast majority of the members of the opposition that something must be done. Yet not all the levers held by the executive branch of power are used here. And we know who the executive is in this country! The executive branch is not a national council. The National Assembly cannot act instead of the government. This is the wrong world. Then why do we have a government and appropriate district ministers? It's not enough that the Minister of Health is here. I respect his presence here to get something done. I think now is the time for the Minister of Finance to speak. However, it is also time for us on the Monetary and Finance Committee, which I am sure we will have and deal with, to agree on some things, and to hear the opinion of the Minister. We cannot tell Members and Members in this country what needs to be done, instead of the Ministers of the Department, instead of the President of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and instead of all the institutions responsible for regulating a particular area in this country. Otherwise, as I have said before, the second time this country is threatened by the flood, the National Assembly will directly impose on individual administrations to protect and solve what they should do, as if we had no government, as if we had no ministries. And in that case, it would seem strange to us that this is the case. In this case, when it comes to a different issue, the fact that the interests of insurers and insurers are at risk is something we accept. And anyway, it has to be accepted by the board of mutuals. The mutual is not a common insurance company, there are 900,000 insurance and insurance companies inside, and we don't have to care what happens. I would expect the government to not care, and I expect it, but I can say that if the Minister of Finance doesn't want to hear me, at least the Prime Minister will hear me and somehow implore the Minister to join us and tell us what the position of the Minister of Finance is, where the insurance companies belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Friend has the floor to prepare Mr Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! It is interesting that many of you have already found that it is entirely a legitimate right in the essence of the Slovenian National Party and the right of citizens and citizens to judge this matter. However, it is also necessary to say in this respect that, in essence, if we take away all the legal procedures that have been, nicely said, for the applicant, this is the Slovenian National Party, which is discriminatory and has not been taken into account, neither in business nor in fact had any culture in this dialogue, we have been confronted with what we do not know, I will not repeat, the damage of time. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Assembly has already convened last year, and it is interesting that almost all of you sitting here are arguing unanimously that this should not happen, as you voted on 27.1.2000. However, what has happened is what this ballot says and what is stated in Article 62 of the Insurance Act. In particular: "The Mutual Insurance Company may be transformed into a share company on the basis of a decision of the Assembly. A decision of the Assembly shall require a 30-member majority of the votes cast if the statute does not provide for a larger majority." That's what Article 62 says! And today you're saying something different. And after all, the country is the worst owner of everything, and I believe that everything that is not yet stolen is welcome for the country, a lot of money is on this portfolio. You want to take that money too? And if you are so democratic, why don't you let citizens and citizens decide for themselves how they will manage their own capital, which they themselves have brought into the Mutual Treasury? Why don't you allow the referendum, why don't you let us collect the required number of votes and call? Since you are obviously unable to do so in essence by the legislative procedure, because all the principles and rules have been violated: our law was eliminated in a procedure that was brought before the government, you did not allow both mothers to be treated at the same time as they should under the rules of procedure, it was not sufficient to take the first initiative with the signatures collected, you requested a supplement. You're talking about ambiguity today. Okay, okay, that's up to the Constitutional Court. Maybe the Constitutional Court will give us the right one, then we'll see what you'll come up with. And there's something else I'd like to point out here today. You advocate that, in essence, the will and interest of insurers and insurers be fully protected. Then why don't you let what we say in the existing law? That's exactly what you voted for, equality for everyone. Today, too, this law means nothing to you, which is legally valid, then respected ladies, gentlemen, colleagues, let us simply withdraw this law and you will once again vote against what you voted for, and we will be able to debate what we are talking about today. For you are very unreasonable and very, very, very vile, talking about that in fact some people do not know, they do not know what they were saying in fact good years ago. And I would like to highlight something else in this, tomorrow, the day after this part of citizens and citizens will be injured, when this is still being stolen, which is in fact now transparent, put in private pockets, disappeared into the underworld, like billions in the economy already, and no one has answered, then scratch yourself a little in your conscience and invent something smarter than what you are telling the Slovenian public today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has given up. Mrs Uhanova has the floor to prepare himself for the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposal of the labour force as well as the Government's proposal to amend the Health and Health Insurance Act in order not to harm 900,000 mutual insurers. The government wants to prevent wildly owned mutuals. But now, apparently, each other acted as a stock company, apparently out of those good 4 thousand tolars that she collected from the insurers each month, creating billions of profits and now sharing them in the form of a certificate. She acted like the biggest profitable company that advertised luxury in the media. I hear they've been funding the unions, and now they're weirdly silent. It is clear that the premiums have been overstated or used unintentionally. The aim of mutual insurance is to ensure the wider health rights of insured persons in the event of illness, not the creation of capital gains, especially since there are unemployed workers among many insured, poor, pensioners and those who have also had a significant impact on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Because I can see that Mr. Skolch has also come forward. In the beginning, I forgot to say that the list of discussers is completed when they sign up and please ask, does anyone else want to discuss to complete the list? No, no, no. Then it's just Mr. Skolč and then Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to another aspect of this decision. I don't want to go into this dilemma on my own whether the insured really want our protection or not, but actually more than we don't all guess about. However, the decision drawn up by the mother's working body, which relates to this request for a referendum, is in fact problematic in so many cases because, in addition to trying to resolve some problem with this idyllic situation between the coalition and almost all the opposition, as is seen by most in this national council. In fact, this decision establishes the principle of the division of power and, on its basis, also threatens, in my opinion, what we know under the name of the rule of law. That is why I will, of course, object to such a decision. It seems very embarrassing to me that both lawyers and the National Assembly are, in fact, the most important contributors to building confidence in what we know under the rule of law. It is true that everything could have been done in one way or another, but it is certainly not possible for the National Assembly to order the Constitutional Court what and how it should act. Nor can this be done in such a way as not to state the rules that the Constitutional Court is to apply or retain. From this point of view, I regret that the National Assembly has become a prisoner of a plot, or game scene, that takes place in a completely different way. It would therefore seem reasonable for me to reject such a decision absolutely. This would make the situation completely transparent, and those who should react would show themselves in all their size, power or power. So that what now seems to be a great achievement, this journey between the coalition and virtually all the opposition, and also this "wonderful pair without a rudder" of Pavliha - Grims, who will order the next meeting, these are not arguments for us to entangle the national assembly in decisions that do not belong to it. We thus begin the credibility of the National Assembly, and therefore it is necessary to vote against it, and the consequences should be borne by those who do not do their work as they should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, most of the stuff I've said in the introductions. I have to say that today's discussion at some points just requires me to repeat some things, because it's obviously sometimes hard to understand or it doesn't want to be understood. I must say that in my opinion and in the Ministry of Health, all insurers must be able to decide on the transformation, not just 33 members of the Assembly, of which only 7 employees are mutual. I think there must be 900 thousand insured people who don't want insurance in a stock company, but that's just an assumption. But their staying with each other could be a confirmation of this claim. These insurers want to have their insurance service unburdened with the cost of dividends for owners. Nor is it true that all insurers will be able to decide on the transformation, since the Mutual has not issued more than 100,000 to so-called so-called "certified" insurers. And the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has cancelled the contract for around 72 000 insured persons on 31 December 2005 and will eventually be able to afford their share in the formation of a share company. Of course, the Mutual must also give this option, and especially to the mutual insurance companies, this possibility must be transformed into a mutual insurance company. I think of this as no longer any specific doubts, but not under the conditions under which such transformation is sought and enforced by the Mutual or its current leadership. It would also be good if the Mutual could market other products. This is possible, not only in supplementary health insurance, but also in an equal position with other insurance companies and it is necessary to prepare insurance products for this purpose, to supplement its statutes and also to request an insurance agency for consent. Now perhaps a few words concerning the transformation of mutual societies into a share society. The Insurance Act also makes it possible, but there is something to know, and it is necessary to be aware of it all the time. It was established on the basis of a specific law, by special procedure, with the establishment of capital, the free transfer of one million insurance contracts, premises, equipment, personnel, information support, etc. It is therefore necessary to identify these issues before reshaping. The founding capital was given to enforce the principle of reciprocity for the mutual society, but not to constitute the basis for shareholders' capital. If someone were to talk about a company back then in 1999, I am sure that such a free transfer would in no way be possible, and this must be clearly understood in today's decision-making. As has already been said, the call of the Mutual is another, now for these discussions, activities aimed at regulating the situation and legality in the field of supplementary health insurance. If this was the real purpose, then it would be possible to prevent what has already happened and is still happening. Let me mention only a trifle, a failure to comply with the provisions of Article 18 of the Act already adopted on the notification of insurers, for which the Insurance Supervisory Agency has also initiated appropriate procedures and the withdrawal of the licence, possibly the withdrawal of the licence and the withdrawal of the certificates. We at the Ministry of Health only want to ensure the equality of insurers through the proposed law. To regulate by law the conditions and criteria for possible transformation and nothing more. If the insurers choose freely to transform, then this should be done in a transparent and legal manner. Of course, it is also possible to have the general referendum will to decide on the transformation of the insurance undertaking, but we are giving the law an opportunity to the insured, who, in fact, are the owners of the insurance company. If the insurers choose to do so, then they must have one option to transform into a share company and others who do not decide to remain in a mutual society in the future. And that, of course, is our purpose. I don't want to talk about the agency procedure here. There were a number of objective reasons why the agency was not more determined. Wrong or different interpretation of this article may have led to this, but the Ministry of Health once again [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u67	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u68	Just two more sentences if you can. The Ministry of Health [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-24-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the request that the Constitutional Court decide whether the content of the requirement contained in the call for a preliminary legislative referendum submitted by the Slovenian National Party on 23 January 2006 is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and could therefore, on its basis, delay the adoption or enforcement of the law with a view to having a negative effect. You've reached a decision on the bench, and I don't think you need to read it. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for participating.
