ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, please calm down and take your seats! I ask Members of Parliament who stand in their arms and talk about taking their seats. Thank you very much. I begin the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Ivan Jelen, Franc Kangler, Breda Pecan, Milan Petek, mag. Majda Potrata, Maria Possonec, Jožef Školč for the beginning of the session, Matjaž Švagan until 12 noon, Cyril Testen, Villa Trofenik, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. I invited a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. I am moving on to the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 18 January 2006. I have not received any proposals concerning the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. We're voting on the agenda. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 4. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Before we go to point one, allow me short information. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 19.1.2006, I note that the initiative to apply for a preliminary legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act, EPA 677, submitted by the Slovenian National Party, has been tabled in accordance with the law and the referendum issue has also been properly formulated. As a result of amendments to the provisions of the law in question, which occurred at the time of the introduction of the referendum initiative, the referendum issue is now in two essential elements in non-compliance with the amended text of the bill. In view of this, I have already called on the initiator today to reshape the referendum issues accordingly and, due to the substantive changes in the new initiative, with the support of the signatures of at least a thousand voters and voters, to submit them to the National Assembly by Monday 23 January 2006 until 12 noon. Until then, in order to protect the initiator of the constitutional right to referendum, a third reading of that proposal should not be initiated. Therefore, if such a new initiative supports the required number of voters and the initiative meets all other legal conditions, I will, on its basis, set a deadline for collecting signatures in support of the referendum requirement. If a new initiative is not put forward by that deadline, the National Assembly will be able to initiate a third examination of the draft law or continue and complete the legislative procedure. Therefore, in accordance with Article 73, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the second reading, I will suspend the meeting and continue the third reading on Monday at 4 p.m. unless an initiative for a referendum is put forward, as I have just stated. So much for your knowledge. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO CONVEPT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mag. Brujan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, all present! The new Health and Health Insurance Act, which entered into force since 1.9.2005, was adopted with the aim of regulating the area of supplementary voluntary health insurance, introducing a compensatory scheme in this insurance and increasing supervision of the implementation of supplementary health insurance. The proposal was prepared solely in the public interest for the protection and dissemination of the rights of insurers. It was based on numerous works from the past five years and experiences from abroad. The Ministry of Health has received over 50 difficult professional comments mainly from insurance companies, insurance control agencies, trade unions, etc., which have been largely taken into account in coordination and negotiations with the social partners in line with the objectives. The unanimous adoption of this law by Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia confirms that matter has been unregulated for a long time and that many work and efforts have been made at the Ministry of Health to harmonise proposals and provisions to make the amendment as best as possible and in particular for the benefit of the insured. With this content of the law, the reasons for the various uncertainties and inconsistencies in supplementary insurance in the Republic of Slovenia were removed and the protection or protection of the interests of the insurers and the same conditions and obligations under this insurance were ensured. Such security is particularly necessary because of the large number of insured persons involved in this insurance and because of the important role of this private insurance in financing healthcare in the country. The supplementary insurance is a complement to the financing of the health service programme of compulsory health insurance and relates to the same rights and to insurers and operators as the compulsory health insurance scheme. With the adoption of the law, it was expected that the situation in the area of supplementary health insurance would be stabilised and arranged to prevent blackmail with extortion and that intergenerational solidarity would be put in place in practice for the benefit of particularly elderly insured persons who did not have the opportunity to enter into voluntary insurance in the previous system. It was also expected that insurance companies which have applied under the law for the implementation of supplementary health insurance and who have to adjust their business within six months of the entry into force of the novel, the legal provisions adopted in accordance with normal legal rules, professional grounds or obligations under the law. During the transitional six-month period provided for by the law, insurers had the opportunity to choose, without additional costs, an insurance undertaking in which they would have completed supplementary health insurance after a new one. During this period, the Mutual Health Insurance Company, which was established by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act of 1998, began to inform its insurers that they were entitled to the so-called certificates, thereby trying to influence their decision on the choice of the insurance undertaking. The issue of mutual certificates meant only a forecast of transformation into a share company. The reference of the Mutual Assembly is intended to confirm only the proposals of the Supervisory Board and the administration of the company on the transformation into a share company. The transformation underlying the long-term obviously takes place taking into account all these procedures prescribed by the Insurance Act, which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] 2000. [[...]] However, there are several reasons why the transformation in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be regulated by a specific law which would also take account of circumstances and facts which the insurance procedure does not take into account. Otherwise, there would be damage to the work of the mutual insurers and the reasons for the possible transformation of the mutual to a share company in a specific law are set out below. The Mutual Assembly, as it is now constituted, does not include all supplementary health insurance insurers. The possibility of electing agents was not for insurers who were not also insured. In such a relationship, insurers have generally been actual payers, but despite the fact that they are the only payers of premiums and rightholders, they did not have the right to vote in the current mutual assembly. Like, for example, Krka workers. Although they paid bonuses from their salaries, they had no opportunity to propose or elect representatives of the present congregation. In fact, they have an interest in proper business.Only persons who act as insurers are only insured persons whose protection is sought by provisions on their right to vote. The Act, which has already entered into force 1.9., specifically provides for this. Reciprocal insurance companies are established to provide protection to insurers against risks and, in particular, cost-effective business, as there is no premium on dividends for shareholders. A mutual company may be a stable correction when determining premiums for shareholders. With the compensatory schemes, we have provided additional protection for insured persons and established a reciprocal principle of compensation for the costs of health services, according to age. This prevents an unjustified increase of premiums for the elderly, which has already been tried primarily by the Reciprocal in 2004 and 2005. The position of the insured may be adequate protection only if the insured have the right to vote in the assembly and the appropriate effect on the congregation’s most important decisions. It is also necessary to ensure the proper situation of the State and the situation of persons under war laws, as it is a large group of persons, 80 000, who are generally older persons, for whom adequate protection and protection are particularly necessary. Mutually established 1999 with the capital of the public institution. The mutual transfer of capital, insurance contracts, premises, equipment, personnel, computer programs for business purposes of the Mutual Insurance Company and not of the shareholder company was carried over. The provision on the statute of grants was reciprocal for the purposes of cost-effective operation. The transfer described represented a free transfer of funds to the Mutual. In the event of a change to the Shareholders' company, the basis for the free transfer of funds fell away, as the Shareholders' company was directed only at profit-making for their shareholders and the Mutual was directed primarily at ensuring the rights of its members, who were also beneficiaries of compulsory health insurance payments by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. In view of the situation described above, consideration should also be given to the fund of the founder. The envisaged and forecasted transformation does not ensure the proper position of the insurers. The conversion procedure, as planned by the Mutual, will not provide for all insurers, members, shares in accordance with the premiums paid since the establishment in 1999. Given the large number of insurers and the relatively low share capital, a large number of persons will lose their existing share if they do not want to pay, lose their existing share and receive a lower share or receive none at all. The certificates have not been received by more than 100,000 insured persons. The contribution of capital and other resources has also not been taken into account in the proposal to reshape the Mutual, even though the Assembly has the full right to do so and the possibility of deciding on it. In the light of the situation described and given, the Ministry of Health has decided to propose to Parliament to supplement the law, which would prevent and regulate the transition to a shareholding society within a framework that would provide all insured with equal opportunities, for the first time, as well as their continued safety in supplementary health insurance. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to protect the insured. With the amendments to the law, we simply wanted to prevent the transition to a mutual shareholding company in the way that the Mutual Insurance Company had now foreseen and which would mean damage to the insured in at least one fifth, more than 20% of all insurers. That was clearly the only purpose. This addition to the law only provided for a special law whereby the Mutual Insurance Company could be transformed into a share company in the future, but only with the consent of the insured, the ones we are most concerned with in this situation. The transition to a share company must therefore, in the opinion of the Government and also by the Ministry of Health, be in the hands of the insurers. They decide on these changes and that is why the law is so ready. At yesterday's meeting of the Health Committee, which will be discussed later by Parliament, some amendments were adopted by the Committee. Some of the more editorial nature, while I will read Article 62j, which states: "The conditions for the possible transformation of a mutual insurance company established under the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance into a Shareholder Society are regulated by law. The law referred to in the preceding paragraph lays down the criteria, conditions and procedure for the possible transformation of the mutual insurance company referred to in the preceding paragraph to a shareholding company, defines the rights of insured persons who were members of the company on the last day prior to the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health and Health Care, guarantees the same rights to insured persons who did not have membership rights on the same day and lays down the rights of the founder of the mutual insurance company. In order to protect the public interest and interests of the insured, the law referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article also lays down the rights of insured persons who wish to continue supplementary health insurance in a mutual society." With these amendments, I think the law is suitable for consideration in the National Assembly. At the same time, I am convinced that such a law as is before you today and submitted to you for admission that our objectives are thus assured, but above all our objectives are assured in that direction which speaks of the protection of the insured. That's why I'm asking you at the end to adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! At its 8th urgent meeting, on 19 January 2006, the Health Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. At its 50th regular meeting on 18 January 2006, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposed law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Before considering the proposed law, the Committee rejected the proposal to consider, under the same point, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance with code J, in accordance with the third paragraphs of Article 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly of the Agenda, and took note of the initiative of the Slovenian National Party to apply for a preliminary legislative referendum to the draft law under consideration. The President of the proposer said in his supplementary explanation of the articles that the purpose of the proposed law and its consideration under the urgent procedure is to prevent the difficult remedial effects of the operation of the State and to protect the public interest in order to transform the mutual health insurance undertaking, which was initiated in contravention of the interests of more than one million insurers, members of the company, into arrangements with a specific law. He further stated that the Mutual was established in 1998 directly and under specific conditions of the Health and Health Insurance Act. The government does not oppose its transformation, but it should be decided on the basis of the criteria and provisions of the specific law by its insurers. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service were taken into account in the proposed amendments to the Committee. The representative of the Mutual Health Insurance Office expressed concerns about the proposed urgent procedure for the consideration of the proposed law and said that the transformation procedure of the Mutual to a Shareholder Society already provided for the insurance law and that the status form of the insurance undertaking did not affect the safety of its insurers. He stressed that it would be tantamount to other insurance companies as a share company on the market. The representative of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia expressed support for the proposed law and considered that the reform of the Mutual Decision should be decided by the insurers, taking into account the purpose for which it was established, this is the stability of tax insurance. The representative of the Insurance Supervisory Agency said that the Agency had repeatedly acted against the Mutual Assembly mainly for violations of intergenerational reciprocity and to act against the benefits of its insurers. In the European Union, there are mostly mutual insurance companies, so he expressed his support for the proposed law and felt that the legal arrangements for this health insurance were already very late. The members and members of the committee supported the proposed law in the debate, which would prevent the uncontrolled transformation of the Mutual, which would harm more than one million Slovenian citizens, who remained insured because they had been established by the State and because they believed that the State would protect them. They considered that there was a public interest, that is access to health services, and that there was a private interest, that is, a desire for profit, so it is essential to reshape the mutual high consent of its insurers, as it will only protect the public interest and satisfy the elements of solidarity between young and old and the healthy and the sick, which will remain the foundation of the Mutual. The discussion also expressed the expectation that the Insurance Supervisory Agency would prevent the transformation of the Mutual against the interests of its insurers. An open letter from the Union, health and social protection, which opposes any transformation of the Mutual, has also been pointed out. On the basis of the comments made in the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee adopted its amendments to Article 1 to Article 2 to the title of the Chapter in the transitional provision, to Article 3 and to the title of the Act. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report and is the subject of today's consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Germich. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u6	Respectable present. In 1998, the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of the Authority, wrote in the field of insurance in the framework of the law that the company is a mutual property of members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all of you who support the government proposal cancel this. In 2005, last year in this same composition, the National Assembly stated that the insured are also members. You're canceling that today, too. In 2000, the previous National Assembly adopted the transformation of the Mutual into a Shareholder Society. Anyone who knows the content of the draft law sent into the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware or must be aware that, of course, the government is making it difficult to transform into a share society. Today we have 3 insurance companies from this insurance life in the Republic of Slovenia. Two of these may be shares companies, may apply the provisions of the Company Act, adapt to the market situation, the situation on the domestic and foreign market, and the third, the Mutual, and do not allow this transformation. Do not allow this kind of reception or reception, as we will be witnessing to him today or on Monday or in the coming days. That during this period there has been a lot going on, which is not in accordance with Slovenian legislation, we all know. That during this period many untruths have been said, to come out of your governmental ignorance or because of another interest, we all know. However, he also began to make a serious mistake in making this national assembly, or leadership, of the national assembly. It was submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the part where the National Assembly loses its sovereignty and thus loses the possibility of exploiting the third branch of power. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent the law that we are considering today to the National Assembly in an urgent procedure and has justified that this is a matter of public interest. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted its justification on an urgent basis with public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, Members, does this mean that all the laws we adopt in the ordinary legislative procedure are no longer in the public interest? And as long as the National Assembly accepts such an explanation, we must be aware that we have given the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a decision or a decision on laws, acceptance or confirmation. This National Assembly, the leadership of the National Assembly, should not be permitted. Speaking of which, allow me to highlight in these five minutes or as many as I have, the biggest mistakes that the billmaker is talking about. In Article 2 or Article 1, given that you have recast them so that you can reject the Slovenian National Party's referendum initiative, you stated that it is necessary to lay down under another law the right of the founder of the Mutual Insurance Company. By doing so, you seek to reinvigorate or revive the concept of nationalisation. The fact is that whoever wanted to be informed, obviously you didn't want to, knows or should know that the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia ended in 1997 with a loss of 2 000 556 million Slovenian tolars. In 1998, he started to increase premiums, i.e. in 1998 the premiums were increased by three times or, as a percentage, by 92.7%, by insured and insured persons. The promotion also took place in the following year, 1999 - year. And from this money, ladies and gentlemen, also of course the bill-maker, this was the establishment capital of the Mutual. It didn't come from any other money. And if insurers and insurers have also established a capital Mutual, then it is only right that they today have the right to convert to the share of this company, i.e. to shares. And that's what we're trying to do at the National Party. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is pursuing a second goal, the goal, I will read it again: "and determine the right of the founder of the mutual insurance company." [[...]] These rights, ladies and gentlemen, are not. In a government case, it is a typical case of nationalisation of what insured and insured persons have or have paid through overprime premiums. As part of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, of course we will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law that tries to prevent unplanned privatisation so far by the Mutual Society. We are convinced that the Mutual Insurance Society, which offers supplementary health insurance, needs to be maintained and made as friendly as possible to its members. We are convinced that the form of reciprocity contains an element of social or social economy, which is referred to as a non-profit activity for the common good of all members. In this organisational form, we are members of each other both in the role of insurer and insurer. In addition, only the number of insurers remaining in the Mutual shows that people have opted for the principle of mutual solidarity, the principle of non-profit and mutual assistance, or that they have not been defined as a profitable aspect of the existing shareholdings. In our view, it was a definition of the Mutual Referendum, which defined people as a principle of reciprocity against the principle of profitability. We believe that by extending the deadline for the transformation of the Mutual Society we will not solve the whole problem, but by setting the deadline we will set the time to implement that part of the coalition contract that binds us, that we need to establish as soon as possible a basket of basic health rights that will be available to all insurance companies for payment under the system of full solidarity, and that everything that does not come into this basket is not part of the compulsory insurance, but can be left to shareholders. In fact, the current organisation of health rights allows the removal of supplementary insurance, which is part of the compulsory insurance, from the system, and the placing of that insurance in a monetary form which is completely contrary to the principles of reciprocity in its content. We are aware that mutual insurance companies are cheaper and more friendly to older citizens in particular. The attempt to end the Mutuality expresses deep distrust in people so that they themselves are able to take care of their health and social security. Such solutions also show distrust of people in the sense that citizens are unable or independent in the economic life of society and that only shareholders of insurance companies can take care of an ordinary citizen. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that the transformation of the Mutual into a Shareholder Society is not a public interest, but even less the interest of the insurers and that all the complications are due to the failure of the institutions to monitor that area of insurance or that they were more favourable to those who tried to privatise matters than to the interests of the insurers. We therefore strongly reject all attempts to privatise the Mutual because we defend reciprocity, because we believe that this could provide a cheaper network of health insurance. We are convinced that in the health sector, the health sector where basic health insurance benefits are generated cannot be part of the health insurance sector. On the basis of everything we say, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will, of course, support the amendment of the Health Insurance and Health Act. We will support it in the interest of all 100,000 insurers who have not been certified in December, and we will support it in the interest of those 80,000 insurers, to whom the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been paying insurance since 1998, and the Mutual Insurance Company has voluntarily excluded them from the Mutual Insurance System at the end of last year. We will also support the amendment of the law because we want to protect the public interest and, of course, the interest of all insurers. Last but not least, the amendment of the law, which was dealt with yesterday by the Health Committee, supported all six parliamentary groups that participated in the committee's consideration of this law, which gives this law a significant degree of legitimacy. The mutual health insurance company was essentially established by the funds of the Institute for Health Care of Slovenia. All the basic capital that the Mutual Insurance Company had to start was transferred or transferred here. The underlying assets were transferred and all the transactions were transferred, all the lists of the then insured. For all of this, the parliamentary group will support the full amendment of the law, together with all the amendments that have been discussed on the Health Committee. However, the Group will not support an amendment that has already come online today and wants to re-evaluate the legislation already discussed and adopted on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Dr Marko Pavliha will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! You may recall that at the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy in mid-December at the 12th regular meeting, we asked the Prime Minister a question about the Mutual and, with regard to his response, we also requested a debate in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, our initiative then came across deaf ears, but today we can find that the efforts of the Liberal Democracy have been commended and that we will therefore also support the proposal for legislative changes, but we believe that it is too late. It is still an ongoing question why the government has acted so late and does not appear to prevent the wild privatisation of the Mutual Health Insurance Company, which leads to catastrophic damage to the state or nationals and citizens and, above all, to weaken their confidence in the entire financial system of our country. The opposition had already tried to prevent at least some of the mutual manoeuvres, since when the amendment of the Health Insurance Act was adopted, it proposed that the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute should be able to reintroduce supplementary insurance. Unfortunately, this initiative has not been adopted. What did the government do in this case? The response of the Minister of Health is a present legal intervention, and we are waiting for the state-sponsored response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Bajuk, who is responsible for the area of insurance and also for the insurance agency, which has also reacted far too late this time after the usual practice. It is true that it has finally begun a procedure to eliminate the unlawful conduct of the Mutual, but there is a great fear that the controlling mills will be grinding too slowly and that in the meantime the worst will happen, which will no longer be corrected. Today, there is no Mutual or its administration on the bench, today we are talking about complementary health insurance, the fate of more than a million insurers in the public interest for which Mr Janša's government is responsible. And what did the government do? Interestingly, the Mutual has even recently begun to act cooperatively. She asked the Insurance Supervisory Agency for answers on how to reshape its Assembly to reflect the interests of all insurers more relevantly, and then she received a response, and here I have a letter 4.1 from the Agency that she is not competent to ask the Minister of Health. However, the Minister of Health 5.1 replies, I quote only part of this letter: "...so we advise you to hire appropriate advisers in the specific case of the answers to the questions raised in your letter. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for this area. The intention of the Mutual and also the functioning of the State criticises several experts. I will only mention Prof. Ivanka, the leading insurance expert in Slovenia and also the dean of the Maribor Faculty of Law, who points out the disastrous consequences of demutation. And let me also mention former President of the Board of Experts of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, Mr Dusan Kidric, who says that the following will happen, I quote: "Separation of certificates, low evaluation of society, even lower purchase price of certificates and later shares, concentration in rare individuals or possibly even a management buyout, sale to a foreign buyer under a strategic partnership company." And he concludes that there is absolutely no economic reason for the Mutual to reshape. Of course, there are other options, but unfortunately we don't have time for this right now. The proposal for legislative changes is better than nothing, but we now expect the government to offer us the concept of offering us a strategy to protect public interest in supplementary health insurance. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we agree that members of the Mutual are given shares if they wish to receive them, but not only 33 people who are now forming a congregation should decide on this, and it should be done in a fair manner, on the basis of the precise provisions of the special law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democrats Group, we will support or support the proposed bill, even though we will not decide on it today. Social Democrats support measures to protect the social security of individuals and groups and assess that the purpose of this law is good. The intervention is late and the government could or should have proposed solutions sooner, but still better late than never. All these complications that we are witnessing are certainly leading to giving the insurance company sufficient time to complete the transformation process before this law makes it impossible for her. The law or proposal for a law adopted by the Government and forwarded to Parliamentary Procedure has been substantively upgraded by the Health Committee. We join the assessment that it was necessary to write down in the law that the transformation of the Mutual into a Shareholder Society is only an option that will be precisely defined by law. This is supposed to be a way for insurers to decide for themselves what kind of insurance they want. Many of the insurance companies stayed in the Mutual also or mainly because of the reciprocity or solidarity that the Mutual is called "me for you, you for me" in the insurance company. The bill therefore does not foresee inevitable property transformation, but foresees only the legal definition and determination of the conditions and procedures and the decision will be taken by the representatives of the insurers. In doing so, it will certainly be necessary to reach the broadest agreement of all insurers, including those who have not been taken into account today, and this will need to be given special attention. Many are already opposed to or opposed to property transformation and will also oppose this when the proposed legislation is enforced. This can also be concluded from an open letter from the Health and Social Welfare Union. It is also important to assess that there is a reasonable expectation that supplementary insurance premiums will increase significantly. So, first of all, the insurance companies and the insurance companies received certificates with the promise to become owners of the insurance company. This is followed by an increase in the premium, which is in the interest of the owner’s insurer, and at the same time an unwanted business move in the eyes of the insurer of the insurance premium. When a mutual insurance company is transformed into a share company, there is public interest on the one hand, which is certainly access to insurance and thus consequently access to health services for all socio-economic groups and, on the other hand, private interest. Shareholders are capital companies and their very name says that they are not in the first place solidarity, but what capital owners expect - profit. And if I quote Mrs Mlakar, who is certainly an insurance expert: "Working societies follow the interests of shareholders' capital." The premiums in equity companies also include an allowance for the profits of shareholders and are used to a greater extent for other purposes, for the development of other insurance, for the development of high administrative wages, for propaganda, for the coverage of losses of other insurance and so on. In the event of the formation of a share company, it can be expected that the operating costs and thus the supplementary insurance premiums will be significantly higher than the current ones, while the authorities of the newly formed share company will enforce the interests of shareholders. It is also not an overemphasis that even now the law in force does not regulate the proper representation of insured persons in the Mutual Assembly. If the insured were properly represented, this fear of meeting the Mutual Assembly would certainly not be. In view of the complications of the adoption of this law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, we expect, of course, the appropriate action of the Agency for Insurance Supervisory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Conticy. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings, Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we support the bill. Above all, we support the purpose of the law, that is to address the current situation. To clarify and regulate the rules for the possible transformation of the insurance undertaking by law, which must primarily express public interest. The public interest that we also recorded in the context of the amendments and the amendment of the law last year. This is the public interest which must also be embodyed by the Mutual Insurance Company. In addition, the principle is also the basis for the functioning of the system, and intergenerational reciprocity must be maintained. We find the current composition of the Mutual Assembly questionable. Does he really represent all of her members? We wonder why the representatives of the Mutual have not yet presented in more detail the advantages, as well as the possible weaknesses that the foretold transformation would bring to its members. We support the law to dispel any doubt about the possible damage to its members, to prevent the decisions of the insurance company at a time when there were a lot of heated, not only different opinions, but also feelings, and especially because they say that as long as the heart burns, there is smoke in the head and at this point it is not possible to make smart decisions, so it is necessary to stop this with today's bill. Above all, in our Group of Members, we expect that the representatives of the insurance company will also be involved in further cooperation, particularly for the benefit of its members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the member of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, after an emergency procedure, we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Why the emergency? Again, the legislation governing the Mutual Health Insurance Company has proved to be flawed, even lacking and inconsistent. It is just a flawed legislation that has allowed many in Slovenia in the past to become unjustifiably rich in the privatisation of the Slovenian economy. In our view, a similar story repeats itself in the case of the Mutual. This time, however, it is even more problematic because it is an insurance company where half of our citizens and citizens are insured. Any privatisation would be acceptable only if it were in the interest of all insurers. There will probably be a lot of people who will say that politics interferes with the area of privatisation between each other, which is not supposed to be our task. In doing so, we must stress that we are not opposed to privatisation, but we are firmly opposed to such a transformation of the Mutual, which would in any way injure its insurers. We therefore support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to possibly reshape the Mutual Office of the Law. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the procedure of the Insurance Supervisory Agency under the Insurance Act, which reveals a number of violations of the laws in the process of reshaping the Mutual. As is known, the Agency has not yet issued legal decisions on the basis of its appeals procedures. Of course, each other all the time, it refers exactly to the interests of its insurers, that transformation is necessary for the sake of the insured or for their benefit. If the mutual interests were indeed the interests of membership or insurance, we would have waited and participated in the drafting of legislation rather than rush through procedures and a congregation in which an individual has absolutely no power. However, all the rush towards rapid privatisation gives the impression that this privatisation is also a test method, as Mr Dusan Kidric, former president of the professional board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, wrote in the Journal of Work. Although it has already been mentioned today, I mention it myself, saying: "The privatisation process is announced for the first time, distribution of certificates, secondly, low evaluation of the company, thirdly, even lower buying-in price of certificates and later shares, fourthly, concentration in rare individuals and fifthly, selling to a foreign buyer under the company of the strategic partnership. The result would be that the insurers would lose their management rights. In the long term, the owners and the management after the sale to a foreign strategic "partner" would be further enriched by the takeover premium." In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that, in particular, the Insurance Supervisory Agency will carry out its work and, as soon as possible, conclude its procedures to establish infringements of the law on privatisation, the Mutual, although we fear that time will run out for this. In particular, we would appeal to the press and the media to explore the background of these privatisations that we cannot. For once, journalists with the case Mutually, in our opinion, are under-worked, especially if we follow the warnings of various experts and acquaintances that it is the case of the Mutual'slave of the century'. The leadership of the Mutual Privatisation has undoubtedly "took a good turn". Procedures have begun quickly and with short steps that at least appear to prevent the cessation of procedures and thus to protect the interests of our citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will do everything possible to prevent any damage to the mutual insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here you go, Mr Grimes. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Look, I listened very carefully to today's debate and an extremely high level of consensus was achieved here. Representatives of parliamentary groups, which together comprise more than 80 members of this respected assembly or more than 90% of the entire national assembly, supported the basic solutions covered by this law. In addition to this support, the common denominator in the entire debate was also concerned that the proposed changes were too late and that there could be a play of law in the sense that it is based on the word 'justice'. Of course, I am sure that because of this agreement, if that is what we want, and if the agreement that has been given here has been presented, it is truly, truly superfluous. My proposal is to stop our work in the manner before which we have been present and to continue on the basis of Articles 172 to 183 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which, of course, means, in practice, that we stop our work as a legislator and continue as a founder. I propose, given the level of consensus reached here, that you should convene a college to examine the possibility that, if this agreement has been presented honestly, these fundamental solutions will take the form of a constitutional law that can be adopted by the end of the next week, on Tuesday, for example, the first meeting of the Constitutional Commission, on Wednesday, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, on Thursday, the second meeting of the Constitutional Commission, on Friday, the final adoption, and by the adoption of the Constitutional Law, all these considerations become superfluous. There is no point in the proposal for a law, there is no point in the referendum initiative, there is no point, if the constitutional law were properly defined, even a reference to that meeting of the Mutual Assembly, which we are all talking about here today. This is a legal path that is flawless, which is still quite possible, which has already been used in this national assembly, not only once, more than once. And even when it comes to economic solutions, a case-by-case case at the constitutional level has already been a day. I would remind you of the story of the establishment of the New Ljubljana Bank. We have also defended the public interest, the interest of all citizens and citizens together, and I suggest that we do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u21	Thank you for the procedural proposal. After consulting with the professional service, I am adjourning the meeting and calling a consultation with the heads of the parliamentary groups. We'll continue the meeting at 12 o'clock. In an hour. I didn't put it to the vote. I can interrupt the session myself after Article 73. I ask all leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet me in room 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u22	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that we have consulted with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and that it is the best option for us to continue the meeting, as was said, until the conclusion of the second hearing. On Monday, the meeting will continue at 4 p.m. in any event. During this time, you received an amendment to Article 3 of the Act, which was tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I am putting the proposed amendment to the debate. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Pavlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Say good-bye again! Given that I had a limited time at the opening presentation, I would now like to say a few more words why our amendment. Why we believe that, in the interim period, if a mutual company accidentally decides to demutate, why should all procedures that are apparently already going very intensive be discontinued during this interim period and all those acts that are still missing be acquired. These, in particular, are the consent or positive opinion of a specific number of insurers and, on the other hand, the authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. You will probably remember that under the Slovenian Constitution and also under European law and international law, the right to health care is one of the key rights. This right is guaranteed in a number of ways, in particular through compulsory insurance. In the 1990s, however, we found that supplements for supplementary insurance urgently require the reorganisation of the system. The idea that prevailed with us was in the form of the establishment of a mutual insurance company. Here we have to ask who was the founder of the mutual insurance company. The founder was the Institute of Health Insurance, in which we are virtually all of us, all 2 million citizens and citizens, meaning that we are indirectly all involved in mutual insurance. And it is easy to say that the Assembly, which currently has 33 members, can decide not only on the good million of all insurers, but on all 2 million citizens and citizens. The regulation ahead of us is a step forward, the reaction of the Minister of Health, which unfortunately is not accompanied by the corresponding reaction of the Minister of Finance or by the speedy action of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, but as has been said, is definitely better than nothing. In a modified form, which, according to my assessment and the assessment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, was unanimously adopted by the home committee, is good. In fact, the legislator cannot and does not have the right to demutualise, to force the Mutual Insurance Office or its members into conversion. This option exists, this option already exists under the insurance law, which is the only regulation we have that allows for the establishment of a mutual insurance company. By the way, the law on companies does not know this legal form, but the insurance law has introduced it because it is, we can say, a centuries-old way of solving mutual insurance issues. And it is a trend in Europe, colleagues and colleagues, that mutual insurance companies are kept, but not to stop or transform into equity companies. The danger, if this demutualisation occurs on an average basis, can be said overnight, at least two experts are warned if, of course, I do not take into account some of us here in Parliament, which we have also dealt with insurance in the past, or we are dealing with it now. Prof. Dr. Šime Ivanjko, mentioned earlier, says as follows: "Those who have imagined the transformation of the Mutual Health Insurance Company into a Shareholder Society are engaged in a project that will have, if implemented, as they imagined, for more than a million people significant consequences. I estimate it's a dangerous game. They intend to reprivatise huge assets in order to become the property of a handful of stock exchangers, banks, and probably insurance companies. In doing so, the insurance companies will lose a lot." When I spoke earlier about the 33-member assembly, which was supposed to decide on the fate of the Mutual Insurance Company on 1 February, let me say that these 33 members represent 0.003% of all members of the Mutual Insurance Company. So, can 0.003% of people really decide on such an important supply? And perhaps Mr Kidric, who was the president of the Agency’s professional board of insurance supervision, said in an article that we quoted earlier today: “At the end of this transformation”, that is to say, the transformation into a share company, “The mutual is no longer possible, since a share company cannot bear a name that misleads, the insurers would lose management rights, the owners would lose management rights by selling certificates or shares to affluents, the concentrated owners would greatly enrich the difference between the real price and the low valuation and the low redemption of the price of certificates or shares, and the owners and administration would further enrich in the sale.” End of quote. Now what? As it is said, our amendment aims to freeze all procedures, I hope that today the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, Mr Gorišek, whose hands are now scissors and canvas, has listened well to the so-called unanimous political message of our Parliament and that, because of this communication, he will not issue at least what he is obliged to do after the 62nd Article of Insurance until 1 February. In fact, since this is a permit, it is a preliminary act whereby only the Assembly can take a recast decision. Thus, in other words, “condito sine qua non”, without permission, the Assembly cannot do anything on 1 February. And if I understand the president or the advice of the leaders of the parliamentary groups very well, this will be our position, or we will call on the agency to tell us what it intends to do. But just in case we're discussing the law, our amendment wouldn't be too much. And let me say -- and I'm going to end with that -- one more thing. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy we are not against shares, of course we are not against the economic initiative provided by the Constitution. Of course, we are not against the will of the insured, if it is their will to operate in a share society, to take part in the stock exchange and to participate in dividends or profit sharing. But the position of the Mutual Insurance Company is specific precisely because of its establishment capital or precisely because of the founder of the Public Health Insurance Institute. For example, consider and consider other options. For example, the profession cites a rather common case where a mutual insurance company with its majority shareholding, for example 51%, establishes a shareholding company, for 51% of the shareholding, of course creates dividends, profits and channels this money back to the mutual insurance undertaking, which enables better conditions for insurers or allows a lower premium for insurers who are in this mutual insurance company. For the other 49%, it can engage investors, domestic, foreign, natural persons, legal persons, with this part of the capital can take place on the stock exchange, on capital markets and, of course, realize all that, if I understand it, is also the purpose of the current administration. With this, you could say, wolf sat and goat whole, no harm would have happened to anyone. And such a share company could deal not only with health insurance but also with other types of insurance, which would be even more interesting and even more up-to-date and consequently better for mutual members or members of the mutual insurance company. Therefore, dear colleagues, I hope you will support our amendment. I think that today it has been clear enough that we are still a nation-building or constructive opposition, which we have seen several times in recent times, and that our amendment will further help to solve this problem, which concerns more than half of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Pache, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u25	Dear Members and Members! In 2000, you passed the Insurance Act. On a proposal from the current government, the Insurance Act stipulated that the Mutual would be transformed into a share company. Each of you can view the event in the computer network in 2000. Some here today claim that a shareholding company as a capital form of an economic society is a death for an insurance company. Excuse me, then why are the other two insurance companies, Adriatic and Triglav, operating in the form of a share company? Today, an uneducated listener could make the impression that a share society is the most negative thing in our country - of course, if it is not said that at least within the Slovenian National Party's Group we have drafted a law that you have rejected, nothing to you has been defined as incomplete, even though we have obtained the opinions of constitutional lawyers who said that you have done wrong. No, but with your left hand, you've thrown away all things, and the consequence is that we're in a situation like this today. Personally, I believe that the establishment capital - and I think that the fundamental dilemma of the Mutual - has not come from the para-State institution or, say, even state institutions, but has come through the increased premiums paid by the insurers and insurers. At the beginning of the explanation, I said that over 90% of the premium had been raised in 1998 and a new promotion came in 1999. And why would someone, the parastatal authority, the state authority, the ministry, whoever, now take these resources? Why are insurers and insurers not entitled to these assets in the form of shares, if they are a share company? What people with these securities, that is, shares, will do is their business; or will they sell them, at what price, how, their decision. Whether they will be transferred to their sons and daughters is their decision. Or, through the stock, they will insist and exercise their right under the law on companies, and it is also their business. But let's leave this decision to future shareholders. And future shareholders, as proposed by the Slovenian National Party, are insurers and insurers - all of whom, according to our proposal for a law contrary to government law, would, of course, obtain them. Because they were paying. Once again, I will highlight both important differences from this point of view. So within the framework of government law, you seek to get the funds, such as the establishment capital, back to the so-called founder. In the National Party, we argue otherwise that the funds have come into the Mutual, Institutional Fund, from the amount of the increased premiums. And all of this - I see that some of you are turning with your eyes, read the annual reports of the health insurance agency and you will see. And one more thing, we're having this debate that's putting up a scale. The first question is whether we should go into transformation, not privatization, transformation, and secondly, whether we should go into nationalisation of the procedure. We have these two roads at our disposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. As a member of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners, we will support this amendment because we think it is directed towards the purpose of the law as such to protect the public interest of the insured in the Mutual. We will also support it because the predicted change in the status of the Mutual was something other than that of the remaining insured, 900 000 of them, by 31 December. In fact, the insurers have extended the mutual or mutual insurance as a mutual insurance undertaking, not as a share company, in which their contribution will become a spoil or capital available to the management policy or to the management assembly of the mutual insurance undertaking, where the insurers as such do not actually have their representation, but are a group of people who have actually been recruited and concentrated by each other after the then valid, or legal, elections, including in this assembly. Therefore, we believe that the change in the law in order to ensure that the interests of the insured are represented by their representatives in the assembly and that the direction of the law in this direction is the protection of the public interest, so that we also think of something else in order to resolve in the long term the issue of health insurance only in such a way that voluntary insurance, which has become compulsory and without which all insurers can suffer irreparable consequences for their health or even die if they do not cover all their services in the long term so that such insurance cannot be sustained in the long term and that part of the rights that we now have to be covered by voluntary insurance, should be returned to the compulsory part of the insurance in accordance with the principle of full solidarity from the net remuneration, from which the current premiums are also financed. As it is said, these are the reasons why we will support this amendment, which should prevent any transformation of the mutual insurance company until the law, a special law that would allow it, is in force. At that time, however, it would also suggest considering the provisions of the Coalition Treaty, where we talked about a new basket of mandatory rights to be financed in full solidarity. In this way, only that part of the wind which relates to non-essential rights for which it is not of vital importance for insurers to pay them would remain in the sails of the insurance undertaking, and then, on the basis of car insurance, that part could also remain in any insurance undertaking which acts as a share company and plans the corresponding profits in its business, which are not meant in the health insurance undertaking in the sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Many of you will be able to recall that we in the Social Democrats Group in 1989, when we talked about amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, in view of the proposals that were at the time, that additional health insurance should also be extremely sensitive, that the greatest possible achievement of reciprocity and solidarity should also be ensured in its context, that we should be reminded of how to obtain supplementary health insurance after 1990. I think that in 1992, we consciously decided at that time that we wanted to maintain the level of health and health insurance rights achieved, but that we thought it was a less sensible solution to maintain certain specific payments for certain health services. And since we have jointly assessed that the levels achieved in full cannot be covered entirely from public resources alone, we have introduced a certain part of the supplementary health insurance and contribution payment, but together then we have made a political commitment to all Member groups and parties, especially trade unions, to convince citizens and citizens that they have been involved in this form of health insurance in a mass way, thereby ensuring that the level of health care and health insurance achieved at that time is maintained. I think it's right to remember that we know how and how we came to this form. Second. I would like to remind you that, with these changes in 1999, our Group has had serious concerns about some of the proposals that came from the government at the time, and also from some of its fellow Members, that an economic invoice should be included as much as possible in the part that was included in the supplementary health insurance. You know, back then, the idea was that the insurance price would depend on how much you benefit from the service. That we had warned that if we let ourselves down, only the elderly would be sicker, that only children and their families would be worse off because they had a few more diseases in their youth, that chronic patients would be worse off, and so on. We have managed, with the help of the majority, to combat such serious changes to the supplementary health insurance system. I'm not going to say that I wouldn't open up a controversy about who was the bearer of this concept and how we had to fight it. That is why I think that today we must enforce whatever it takes to prevent anyone from taking ownership of the ownership interest, as well as the right to decide on issues related to the million, or now 900,000 insurers within the framework of the Mutual. I'm one of the insurance companies. If you ask me what my insurance is, the insurance goal is certainly not a return on my shares. The aim of the insurance is to ensure that it has the right, whether or not it has been agreed, that my desire as an insurer is that these rights are as high as possible, whether they are, or where they are, possible, but then the thing is, I would say, weighing and looking for options, but this is my fundamental objective in health insurance. And so to say that it will be right to design solutions that have a competitive two goals, and to think every day, when the end of the year is a balance sheet, I'll have an interest in high dividends when I'm sick on 5 January, but I'll say, no, forget those dividends, I want a lot of rights. I simply do not believe that this is true and that it is possible to combine two different interests objectively, wisely. I'm not saying that doesn't mean it's impossible to have a shareholding company in this area, because we enforced it at the time of the marriage, and you probably knew why. It is true that we already have two shareholders, created in another way, created in a different way, not from existing rights and existing assets, but created by the initial collection of their insurers, probably with some problems at the beginning, now that the insurers have moved with a slightly easier situation, but I do not claim that this is "a priori" bad, but if there is any doubt that these rights could be misused, we must prevent them. And with regard to this amendment, it is likely that the law is made because of the content included in this amendment. That's how I understand. If our joint assessment of this amendment helps to consolidate this content, I don't know why we wouldn't support it. I also understand it in this sense and we are prepared to support it in our Group of Members. However, in the debates that have taken place so far, I would really like us to know what our decisions will mean before the final decision in this National Assembly, that we also know what certain supervisory and other institutions can or cannot do to prevent those procedures that this amendment contains. In view of the fact that procedures have stopped pending the implementation of the special law, so that they do not have a legal effect - this does not mean that they may not have it in six months when we come up with some criteria together, but until there is any uncertainty that legal and, above all, substantive, rights effects may be negative for insurers, I think we cannot allow this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. At the end of what I say, I will ask a question, namely, a question aimed at the legal service of the National Assembly, in connection with the proposed amendments. But first, I would like to explain it a little bit more. When we talk about our role, we need to separate two ways in which the National Assembly works: it acts as a legislator and can also act as a founder. When we act as a founder, we are bound only by some fundamental values that we all accept and among which, I am sure, justice is among the most important. From this point of view, we have also spoken at the previous meeting in this direction that, in fact, the abandonment of a legal act in a way that would then result in an abuse of law can in itself be unconstitutional. And we are therefore obliged to do our utmost to avoid such consequences when we detect them. In this direction, so in order to protect justice as a value, the proposal I made also went. It's open now. However, we are still acting as legislators. However, when we act as legislators, in this case we are fully bound by the applicable constitution, the applicable constitutional order. And from this point of view, I must say that I am somewhat in doubt, because, before I spoke to my colleagues from various parliamentary groups in the hallway during the rest period, I was told that the same solution as proposed by this LDS amendment was already on the table, I had a group on the committee that was considering the proposal of the law and that, in fact, they were warned there by the legal service that such a proposal could, however, be disputed from the point of view of the Constitution in force, and that they did not proceed in this direction. Personally, I have no particular concern that such a solution should be adopted, but if I get a guarantee, given that, apparently, a warning has already been given that such content is fully in line with the current constitutional order, since the constitutional order binds everything and everyone. And I would like to continue here with what Mr Potrč said earlier. We really need to be clear that the government, as such in this case, cannot act directly and must not. On the other hand, this is an option for the agency, which has so far remained silent for an unknown reason. I would warn you that I find that controversial. For even if he intends to act later, and now he has the power to raise, I don't know, tension between us, it causes, if nothing else, additional costs to this country; after all, this meeting of the National Assembly also has this dimension. That is to say, in my firm belief, it would be necessary for the public to be informed in time by measures, so that we will then be much easier and, without any time and other pressure, we will decide in the way that we believe it will be fair and for people to do the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Anyone else want to discuss the article and the amendment? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, when we discussed the content of the proposed text at the committee meeting yesterday and when we adopted the amendments to the committee, we were in fact united in the position that before there were all the answers, what would be the consequences for everyone involved in the mutual insurance, that is to say, in the concept of supplementary health insurance, it was necessary to make sure that the transformation did not occur. However, if I could comment today on why the National Assembly is in a situation where we are today, where we are also proposing to save this matter through constitutional law, it would be possible to predict somehow through the conduct of this government in this area during this term. Why am I talking about this? You know that the White Paper of the previous mandate has given a lot of attention to this issue; therefore, what should be the relation to supplementary health insurance, which, of course, means different forms of regulation also through different forms of insurance. At that time, of course, the system, as proposed, was very much criticised by today's ruling structure without offering a clear different concept. The continuation of the warning that supplementary health insurance should be very careful about this issue was also the amendment tabled by our group at a time when we also changed the Health and Health Insurance Act following the urgent procedure during the summer months, where there was also no hearing to regulate this area. [[I thank you, Mr. President.]] So, in order to regulate this area - I am not saying this because the amendment has not been adopted, but I am speaking because it is not, at the time, substantively that government has faced this problem. However, if I link this to the messages that the Minister and the Ministry of Health have made, I would say, the basic concept of this government that private life should be introduced in health as much as possible, and I myself have asked questions - not to you, Mr Minister, but to the Prime Minister - on the subject of privatisation not only in primary health, but also in secondary health, and you know that Mr Mr Mikajić wrote this process down as "bručanisation". At that time, we warned that this could be done in other areas as well; and this happened. When we have warned that, of course, every concept of privatisation in such an important and sensitive area of course requires reflection, means action and a clear strategy, of course this has been reversed, or that we do not understand what privacy is and what privatisation is, and of course that the ministry and government know what it is doing in this area. Of course, if we look at ambitions, it is impossible to read, for example, just from this point of view of the mutual administration, that it has followed some patterns, that in some areas privatisation is allowed, which has no answers to questions that are some behavioral patterns. Of course, whether some thirds will pay for the consequences was less important in this context. Today the National Assembly, such as the last one, is in the role of being one of the last insurgents in the process of adopting such a law that will close the area. That is why there is still a fundamental question here for me. We will vote today, given the support of this law, but there is an open fundamental question as to how we will deal with the extent of health rights both from compulsory and from the scope of supplementary health insurance to ensure a clear position both in the opposition and in the minister, so that the scope of compulsory insurance rights will not be reduced. We have a number of laws where, I would say, in certain segments, we are interfering with this issue. We have had a very important substantive debate in the drug law on what interchangeability and comparability means, so as not to intervene in the provision of individual patients' health care. We also had a very important question about how to support or not support the sale of medicines in specialised shops without reducing the health condition or health care of us citizens and citizens. Until we tabled the amendments, and invested them by the opposition, the government did not listen to these problems that were coming from the opposition. I am pleased today, and also yesterday on the committee, that we have found consensus here, consensus only to give us time, to also, let's say, by the Slovenian National Party, explain clearly what concepts are, but could also be acceptable in, say, a way of transforming the Mutual into a so-called share society. And these answers must be given to half of Slovenian citizens and citizens. I agree with those who, when we were thinking about whether to move to another or stay in the Mutual, we were thinking that two other insurance companies are a form of another concept. They're shares companies that have some logic of action and a mutual that has some other logic of action. And it is no coincidence that we have requirements for a constitutional assessment of exactly these two share insurance companies on compensatory schemes. For if we look at the structure of the insured in Adriatico or Triglav and in the Mutual, we see significant differences. And here I also see this basic concept of approach to health in Slovenia: to what extent will we be able to ensure solidarity for the younger, older, sick, healthier, socially weaker, socially stronger. And, of course, these warnings that have been addressed through the question of privatization in health care, about the question of what is happening in the area of Mutuals, we also think that they have been in the direction of what we are doing here today. So, in a kind of so-called state-of-the-art word, in fact, all representatives of people, i.e. voters and voters, in fact, of all the citizens and citizens we represent here today. And, of course, by closing this law - and thus reshaping - to try the law that we will make for this transformation, to prescribe what will be the criteria for this transformation, to pour ourselves pure wine or water in order to get answers, what is the role of this initial, founding, what is the role of those who have not obtained certificates. There are no clear answers at this time. And so it seems to me that it is justifiable for us to do something that does not change before we answer all the fundamental questions. And, of course, here, Mr Minister and Government have a great responsibility that we are in a situation where we today have to deal with the urgency of today's procedure just as we have to do today. For we also do not have all the answers to these questions today, and we cannot vehemently argue that, for example, others are wrong to advocate that by creating a share company, by including additional services within the framework of the Mutual Regulation, this will contribute to greater financial stability in order to provide, say, lower premiums at the same level of services or at the same premium, a higher volume of services. So these are the questions we need answers to, and that is why I will, as before, support the adoption of this law. Of course, I am also not naive that, given the possibilities offered by the procedure in the adoption of the law, it is not possible to do everything that will not be done by 1.2. of this law and that, of course, the Mutual Assembly will take decisions that have already been written down as the substance of the decisions. Therefore, the State of Slovenia still has institutions that will be able to determine whether the procedures to be carried out and whether the procedures are correct and whether these institutions - not as they may have been in slumber so far - will be needed "to make a little wind". So they'll do what needs to be done. That is why I will support the law that is here, but of course I will be happy and grateful to all those who have pointed out certain aspects of the content of our Group's amendment. However, I must say that it was not in the form of a text that we considered on the committee, Mr Grims was not present, so the text of the law is not, so the first one that came to the committee did not include this text and I did not see it in the opinion of the legislative and legal service myself, and, of course, I would like to see if there was any misunderstanding that those who spoke about it should be properly clarified, especially for all those Members who were not present on the Health Committee yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Lighthouse, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! I myself will support the law that we are considering today, the same applies to the amendment tabled by our Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I believe that both are good and absolutely necessary. It should be stressed that, of course, we adopted a law in the summer regulating supplementary health insurance. Indeed, under this law they have the possibility to operate both insurance companies of a share company and insurance undertakings that are in the form of mutual insurance undertakings and are non-profit institutions. Moreover, I myself wrote an open letter to the Prime Minister a few months ago and warned him of, in my opinion, harmful transactions that have been carried out to the detriment of the mutual insurers. It was then a matter of transforming life insurance contracts into 12-year-olds. At that time, I claimed that damage would occur to the insurance companies, and later we listened to this by law. The law that we have adopted here in the National Assembly has regulated and increased transparency in this area, so it has also received support in all - or not in all, but in most of the parliamentary groups. Even today, I am extremely sorry that the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which wanted to give the opportunity to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, was not adopted. This would also allow not only greater competition in this area, but also increase transparency and protect the interests of insurers with a choice. In fact, if compulsory health insurance is already being carried out somewhere, why would it not also have the possibility to carry out supplementary health insurance? But anyway, whatever we're turning now, we've come to some point where it's obvious that it's necessary to protect the insurance interests. It is not that, as some may wish to show, on the one hand, there are those who want to give shares to all citizens and citizens, on the other hand, those who are protecting some imaginary, abstract interest of the State, but it is simply a question of whether we will protect the interests of the insured in that country. Are we able to ensure the transparency of the operations of all institutions in this country? Do we really know what this is about? It is simply a matter of wanting overnight, in a very short period of time, a mutual insurance company, which is a non-profit institution, which has also been established for this purpose, to protect the interests of the insurers or to make the money that is acquired as much as possible invests in the health system, to transform such an institution overnight into a shareholder company which has another interest - the interest of capital and the interest of profit. Of course, it is legal and legitimate for this to happen if it is decided by the majority of the insurers, but it is very clear what they decide. 900 000 citizens and citizens are involved in mutual health insurance. I think that when they follow this debate, they don't know exactly what this is about, because matter is complex and it's difficult to study in a very short time. Of course, the question is whether they will then be able to make a meaningful decision in a very short time what to do. In any case, they must have a chance. But what is certainly very good and very clear is that there is an insurance agency in this country. I recall the statement made by the president of this agency, who, when writing an open letter to the Prime Minister, did not respond. Before that, he said that they simply lack the knowledge that there is not enough knowledge to effectively control health insurance companies such as the Mutual. I asked who would then protect the interests of the insurance and insurance companies. Who? I didn't get an answer for that either today. And in this matter of ours, it is best shown. To say here that the government has nothing to do with this, what one of the Members said before, is very hypocritical. Yes, and in whose context does this insurance agency operate? Today I would be very happy if you were with us, say, the Minister of Finance, but he's not here. The Insurance Supervisory Agency operates within this Ministry, and if the government says it cannot act here, I wonder what powers this government has then in this country. The most effective, transparent and transparent would be that, in the interests of 900 000 citizens and citizens, if there is a lack of transparency, there is a harmful activity that is not in accordance with the interests of insurers and insurers, that the Insurance Supervisory Agency introduces an exceptional administration in the Mutual. He's got all the legal basis for that. In this case, of course, the mandate of both the Assembly and the Supervisory Board as well as the Administration will cease immediately. Alternatively, even if the transformation is carried out, it is not necessary for the Insurance Supervisory Agency to give its consent. What she's gonna do, I don't know. I don't know if even the president of the Insurance Supervisory Agency knows what's going on, because he's simply not saying anything about such important things as 900,000 citizens and citizens in this country. I don't even know what his finance minister, the minister of the year, or as he's already been announced, says, is not here - on the issue of 900 000 citizens and citizens! Today, it would be totally unnecessary to deal with this law, with this amendment that we tabled if the Insurance Supervisory Agency did its job. He's not here. This government has replaced hundreds of members of the administrations and directors of companies with an inviolable and has paid them hundreds of millions of emoluments, but it is not able to manage matters in the Mutual, although there are apparently major irregularities and frauds. Obviously, administratively, it is completely incapacitated if the President of the Insurance Supervisory Agency cannot pull the necessary moves, of course, they must be drawn by the National Assembly and we are doing this today. But that's sad for this country. It is sad for this country that we must adopt a special law on a health insurance company, which is of course extremely important for 900 000 citizens and citizens, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which some agency operating within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is unable to carry out some normal administrative procedures. This is a story that needs to be told clearly enough. Of course, as I said, I will personally support the law. I think the National Assembly, as a legislative body here, has to cut down if the other institutions don't do anything, that's our duty. And of course, I will also support this amendment, which we have tabled in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because in this way we really want to protect the interest of 900 000 citizens and citizens. And once again, 900 000 citizens and citizens have entered the Mutual because they want to exercise their rights in the field of healthcare, not in order to earn their profits from it. Of course, they have the opportunity to decide, at the final stage, to transform into a share society, but then it is fair to tell people that, in order to get a few tolars in the form of one share in one pocket, in the coming years and decades from the second pocket they will be taken into tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars in the form of higher premiums that they will have to pay for supplementary health insurance. It is only fair to tell them and do the calculations so that they know what they will decide in the congregation. For this to happen, of course, appropriate discussions and information should also be carried out at the appropriate time. This is the only way to support the amendment that we have tabled in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Neither the open letters to the Prime Minister nor the obvious parliamentary questions asked by the colleague in order to ensure that the government does its job in time. I hope that at least with this amendment, we can prevent the damage to the insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u37	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Mr Minister. This issue that we are dealing with today is not a question of legality, but it is also a question of a moral, social sense, and perhaps a historical memory. Capitalism, of course, has not been the invention of the Republic of Slovenia since 1991, but we have had it in this territory before. I have to tell the story from my places, it worked there, at least two strong companies were working TPD, the Trboveljska Coal and the Dukić. Both of them, who employed a large number of people, were unable to protect the miners. They didn't want to, but they were building in Ljubljana, for example, Dukić's blocks, buying pictures that hang today at the government palace, and so on. Thus, people had to establish the Brotherly Composition themselves. This Brotherly Composition has built a hospital, the Trbovlje Hospital, which is still known today and we would like to privatize it in such a way. In general, everything that went through equity society never looked at any solidarity, but always and only profit. To the profit of those few owners and, of course, perhaps a little larger piece of residues for managers. In a way, it is a matter of which, of course, it can be very suffocating after corruption, when public funds are being shared, and when people are being misled and promised, I do not know what proportions, but, of course, with different mechanisms, lower prices and rob them in some way. This, of course, is also the ultimate goal, as we can see. All those who participate here, of course, are also bound not only to be dealt with by the Insurance Supervisory Commission but also by the Corruption Commission. But this is cancelled, first one part of the possibility of control and prevention is eliminated, and then, of course, it starts to spread in this mud, in this swamp called Mutual. I will support both the amendment and the law itself, although, of course, I have the feeling that things here are so quickly confused together that they may solve the matter for a while, but they will really need to be examined and clearly defined and not behaved ignorantly. But first of all, I'm going to do it for the marriage and for the amendment that the mutual will not only become "borrowing".
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u38	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I have been convinced by the discussions so far that we have a common and united purpose. Now I would be very disappointed if, with the continuation of the debate, as it began in the last part, we put a wedge in this unity. I don't think that was our intention. Our aim was to support the law, to support the amendment and to prevent, as far as possible, damage to insurance and insurance companies. All the possible escapades that we have heard so far, jumping from prime minister to minister, to coalition, to various parties and so on, it is now just a beautiful ornament and I would say that now we don't need beauty anymore. We should now decide, decide to support the law, support the amendment, and do what is best for the insured and the insured. That's why I'm asking you to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I would say that this time the government has responded very appropriately and decisively in a way of savage privatisation that would also happen to this Mutual. Thank God it's not 1991 anymore. Dear citizens and citizens, remember where and how many of those certificates you received by post from the Prime Minister himself at the time. The vast majority, of course, have nothing to do with it. Some individuals today are so rich that they can buy half of Slovenia whenever they want. In the case of the Mutual, created by some other interests created by the Department of Health Insurance, which has indeed been created to function as a mutual insurance company, in which we will also be provided to those slightly younger ones who today do not need and benefit from this policy of this insurance, and in such, under the same conditions, those who are now slightly older and need more from this police will also be insured. Those kids will come after those elders tomorrow, and we'll be on the same page. At that time, we would also like to have a younger generation behind us, which will help us resolve these health problems, which we will then face, but not have enough resources and private capital to afford this standard. I am also, like the vast majority of citizens and citizens, a member of this Mutual Insurance Company. There is also a trend in Europe - according to the data I have, and they are probably about correct - at least 30% of insurance companies operate in a so-called mutual insurance company. With us, we have, after all, inherited this and it will be for quite some time, I believe, the so-called Intergenerational Treaty applies and, of course, it would be totally unacceptable if we transformed into a mutual partnership under the Adriatic or Triglav system. As far as patients are concerned, I am deeply convinced that it is only an increase in premiums, since these three share companies would already agree on how to compete a little less, but still press on those who would pay the insurance and how the compulsory basket would be reduced. I am convinced that this would primarily harm citizens and citizens, so that I will support or do all that we can to protect the interests of citizens and citizens through this mutual insurance company.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members! I think that, as colleague Willi Rezman has previously found, this debate has started very well. All the parliamentary groups, except one, who in fact somehow rushed ahead and actually tried in some way, so we assess in New Slovenia, help with this planned action, said they support this proposal of the law, and we were all somehow united in the fact that the National Assembly must do and prevent this intention of the Mutual. But then we have our fellow Members, and here I would like to replicate to my fellow Lachovniks, who use this national assembly at every opportunity and every opportunity, and, if only so, they are attacking a financial minister, who is not even among us at this time; but, without defending him, but the finance minister is also the President of the New Slovenia and here the group of Members, so I must say that I regret and am concerned about such discussions. Even if, for example, our fellow Member at a time when we are discussing a code of ethics, here he gets rid of the words "some minister of the year" and so on. Dear Members! This is not the way serious colleagues would talk and that is not the way to talk. So if someone has earned a confession, let's admit it to him or not mention it, but not in that way, colleague Lachovnik. You do not do this service to your client, nor to yourself, nor to this Parliament, nor to the country in which we live. I'm sorry to tell you this, but it really bothers me. That's very disturbing. Otherwise, you may continue to do so and I think you will, but this is not an example of the Member's responsible behaviour. I'm sorry I told you that. As far as the agency's action is concerned. The Agency has not yet said the last word, it has not given its consent, and there is no need to prejudge anything that will happen. So, our joint project is to prevent what the Mutual has been committed. And if we're all for it, and the position and the opposition, then I believe we'll stop it, either way. Today, at some point here, the possibility of a constitutional law has also been indicated, and we will see. If this is not the way we are doing what we are doing now and this will continue, I believe that, with such agreement, Parliament will also find the opportunity to reach out at the final stage after what is being done at the meeting of the President of Parliament today does not seem to be the best solution, but at the final stage, if necessary, then, if the will is to be done, it will also have to be done. It's about protecting all those who joined this insurance company from what's coming. And if we understand - and the Slovenian public actually understands - what is at the heart of the problem at this point, then this also needs to be stopped by all the means that we, as a national assembly, as a legislative body, have. And I believe we're on our way and we're gonna do it. Of course, I suggest that you do not use or follow such a path, but in particular that we do not stumble upon those who are not here and cannot defend ourselves. Come on, use this matter when they're here between us and they'll have a chance to answer you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I'd like to ask you a favor. We are considering a bill and we are considering an amendment. I'm asking you nicely, it's good to stick to this darkness. Thank you very much. Can I get you a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u45	I owe the honourable Member [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u46	That's all I have to explain. Mr. Sok, you discussed it. The debate referred to what was mentioned, so I am giving a replica to Mr Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u47	Member of the Commission, in my debate, I have made it very clear that the interests of 900 000 citizens and citizens, 900 000 insurers and mutual insurers must be protected. I have made it very clear that I think it would be necessary and necessary for the Insurance Supervisory Agency to act differently than it is. She hasn't done anything yet. The Insurance Supervisory Agency belongs to the Department of Finance of Andre Bajuk. I have made it very clear that I think it would be necessary and necessary for him to be here today. I am sorry that he is not here today, on such an important issue for citizens and citizens. The fact that Mr. Minister of Finance is also the President of New Slovenia - I'm sorry, Mr. Sok, this is your problem, not mine. You chose him, not me, so I can't help you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, I can only find that Slovenian policy was aware long ago, there in 1992, of the fact that for many reasons, both because of the ageing of society and because of the whole type of new, better and more expensive medicines offered by the market, because of many technological improvements in the treatment itself, it has decided that it will not be possible to maintain the expected scope of rights only on public funds. And so, in turn, she consciously decided that, in addition to the great solidarity that we can achieve through basic health insurance or compulsory health insurance, we will also introduce an additional possibility of raising private funds on the principle of reciprocity. And I think that was a good decision. And something very different will not be able to be followed by the current policy, even by the current government, if I say so, if we mean it very seriously with economic social reforms. Therefore, it is simply essential that we remain in the extra collection of health care money and, of course, take care of health insurance. A fundamental mission or goal should be for all of us to achieve the lowest possible premium of this voluntary additional insurance, so that this issue must be given priority by tact and much, much of the Government's efforts to achieve it. This must be built in so that such gathering cannot be based on excessive profits and therefore a monopoly must be established or eliminated. That is why I welcomed the fact that the government decided there during the summer time to make more pretenses, some market power on the voluntary supplementary insurance market. And that's good. I was already a little disappointed at the fact that there were some precedents in the third reading of the law in article 62, when, at that time, the same actor who wanted to prevent the government from doing so in any way today, had introduced a weakness in this law of some kind before that of the basic proposer. That's why at least for me what the board of mutuals has been doing lately, I find it difficult to say everything mutual, there's a lot of footage that contradicts this procedure. What this administration is doing is, by my kind, pure gambling, which is socially harmful. And I think it's about time the government intervened, maybe even too late. However, it is my duty as a Member to support it here, not to dissect all these weaknesses for the society that it brings, but to simply prevent it. Therefore, I am sure that this must be achieved after all, because this gambling is already so much that I wonder on whose right a certain administration is using so much of the premium that insurers pay for such advertising for such costs of legal aid that they afford. Finally, if we are to achieve what our common objective must be, as many services and services as possible for the lowest premium that our citizens can still be able to achieve, this must be prevented. I mean, if this amendment wasn't enough, I'm sure that with the responsibility of the insurance agency, it's going to go here after all through what the government would have wanted to do. And if this is not feasible, the agency itself, as the guardian of this area, must prevent this for the benefit of all citizens and citizens, and I am sure it will. I will be very pleased to support this amendment, regardless of who proposes it, only to further contribute to the maintenance of the law's purpose and, if I am proud of anything, I am proud that the government has finally decided at this point, although late, that it is going to solve this or prevent this gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the LDS amendment. I would like to add that in recent years and especially in recent years we have heard a number of neoliberal ideologists who have nothing in common with liberal politics to understand each other. By mistake, it's only part of the name. Neoliberal ideologies that prevent us from the essence of all capitalism is just the market, competitiveness and ability to survive at the expense of others. Such a simplified view of how modern societies are organized does not resist criticism. The history of capitalism teaches us about the history of altruism, including the history of altruism and solidarity. And one of the forms of institutionalised altruism and solidarity is about what we have today in the Mutual. And if we have dedicated ourselves to something and we are very much in agreement today, it is primarily that we are opposed to changing in a wild way this image of solidarity-reciprocality, but not above the vast majority, because it has 900,000 members, the Mutual. By the way, I too am a proud owner of a certificate that says about such a number that I own 0.00342 - something similar - share of the Mutual. And I'm just wondering, the billmakers who aren't in today's treatment, how much money does that mean, to see how much money the Mutual wanted to win me over? In particular, I would like to say that, as some have warned, we today are in agreement with the ruling coalition group that we have a common goal. We only have it at the point that in this way we do not want to transform the Mutual into a shared society without any control and without the influence of the Members of the Mutual. But I'm not sure we have it. I don't know what the government's goal is in this area. She did not reveal it, and it is quite possible that there may be a transformation that would be more appropriate for her. If we look at what is happening in the economy, then we see how the Slovenian economy is being repoliticised. And not to prevent me, I'm not going to tell anyone anything, or I'm going to assume that there's no such thing as that in this case. In short, I am particularly disturbed by this fire-fighting nature of these actions. However, this matter has been ongoing for at least 2 months and we are discussing this today. I will certainly support both the amendment and the law, but at the same time let the government and the ruling coalition not think that they have my support for all the future things they intend to do. Each of their actions, the move will be very, at least me and the rest of my parliamentary group, closely monitored, evaluated and made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, mag. He's a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! I would not discuss in a broad way today’s issues that have arisen here, which are of much broader character and importance, such as the adoption of this complementary law or amendment. Of course, I could say something, especially that the transformation of the Mutual into a Shareholder Society does not really have anything to do with the introduction of privacy in primary health or secondary health care. These are at least two of them as separate matters. The mutual was simply established, as it was established, in the way it was established, and in this way it will eventually be transformed if the insurers, including the share company, are to do so. But as far as the amendment is concerned, I would like to support any amendment that will prevent the wildly owned institutions, and of course this amendment. I must say that the amendment prepared here by the LDS Parliamentary Group could lead to additional options to prevent such a change in the mutual shares society. However, I think that by the very adoption of the law we can achieve the same purpose in the form in which it is now written. This additional text, if not adopted in full, in due time, will then have no further meaning. We have proposed a special law to regulate this, at the same time without this amendment, the Assembly would not be able to adopt, at the time of adoption of our proposal, a transformation into a share society at its meeting on 1 February. That is how I think that if this helps to prevent this transition to a share society under conditions such as the Mutual Insurance Company now wants to regulate it, such an amendment would be supported. However, I am not sure that this amendment is actually helping to realize our intentions. I must say, however, that we have already had such a proposal in one of our proposals during the law-making phase. What Comrade Grimes used to say did not concern Parliament. It was about the government. At the time we were already in one of the articles, Article 10 had such a proposal, which was then withdrawn at the initiative of some lawyers. If I read it to you, this article reads as follows: "Before the implementation of the special law referred to in the preceding paragraph, the procedure for the transformation of a mutual insurance company established under the provisions of the law on amendments" and so on shall be "stopped into a share society". [[...]] However, at the request of the lawyers, we removed him from the proposal. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3 of the amended amendment. Please. Is that procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose a 10-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u56	Please, I'm not okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u57	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u58	Ten minutes. Okay. We're moving on. One moment, please. In accordance with the rules of procedure, we must continue our session by asking you, before deciding who wants to explain their vote. An explanation of the voice? Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm taking a 10-minute break. Meeting resumed at 13.36 p.m. Members and Members, as further consultations are still needed, I extend the period by 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u59	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We are in the voting phase on the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Does the motioner want to explain? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 32. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are done with the second reading of the bill. Since the President of the National Assembly has been given the initiative of the electorate and the electorate to apply for a preliminary legislative referendum on this bill, the State Assembly must not begin the third consideration of the bill at this time. That's why I'm putting an end to this point. Before concluding today's part of the meeting, only information and a proposal for a decision. In consultation with the heads of the parliamentary groups, it was found that it was necessary to obtain the opinion of the Insurance Supervisory Agency as regards its conduct in the event that was to take place on 1 February. In view of the exceptional situation that may arise on Monday, 23 January 2006, in the event of an additional referendum initiative being tabled, I propose that the National Assembly, in view of the linkage of matter, adopt the following decision: The National Assembly calls on the Insurance Supervisory Agency to forward its position by noon on Monday 23 January 2006 to the necessary authorisation for the transformation of the Mutual Society into a share company, in the light of the possibility that the transformation would jeopardise the interests of members or insurers. Does anyone want to discuss this procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Then I put this procedural proposal to the vote. So we call on the insurance agency to send us a position by Monday on the necessary transformation. Is there a question? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I just want to make it clear what I expect from the agency. I expect the Agency to be informed whether and how it can act and or what the consequences of its conduct are. And that's what I'd like to think is the content of this conclusion, which is written horribly in "kunšten" way, and I'm not representing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u62	I would also expect the Ministry of Finance to do so, to call on the Insurance Supervisory Agency or the Government to provide us with this, without the State Assembly now calling on a government agency, as if we do not have a government of the Republic of Slovenia in this country. However, in today's debate, I expect that the relevant minister, who is not here today, has also woken up. Why he's not here is another thing. I don't want to get into this anymore. But, as a Member, I expect the Insurance Supervisory Agency to act to make these measures clear, effective and from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take action to replace it. That's it. There are very clear relationships here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u63	Once again, I stress that our behaviour is also in the future, so next week, very much depending on what the insurance agency will do. Furthermore, the Rules of Procedure of Article 73 provide that, if it is necessary to obtain certain opinions for further treatment, such an opinion may also be required by the National Assembly. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u64	Mr President, I have a problem with this decision. What the Agency can do is evident from the legislation it has in its hands, as shown in the legislation and other documents governing it. That's not a problem. We know what he can do. However, I doubt that the agency can first tell us what it will do and then do. Even this could be bad in certain cases. So the agency, if it does, will probably take action with the decision. And I'm sure he can't continue to explain this decision to someone and then issue it. I think this joint's on its broken legs. I understand your good intentions that this is very important, I agree, but I'm afraid the agency can't and can't tell us what she'll do before she does. Of course, he can only work with decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u66	I have said my expectations, which can be in line with what Mr Gantar is saying, about one part of what can be asked of the Agency. Here were my explanations. I think it's accurate enough. What her powers are and what the effects of these powers are, not what she will do. With regard to what Mr Gantar said to us that we know, I would be terribly grateful if anyone could tell me what was going on on on the working body, I know what was going on at the national assembly today, and I know what was going on at the college's council, I know what the powers were. No one could say that clearly. Unfortunately. I expected the government to be able to say that. But we talked about constitutional issues to first find out what these explanations really are. Don't mind. I don't know them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Here you go, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I am also very surprised at the proposal for a decision, because as a legislative body here, we cannot possibly be directed and our decision depends on one agency's decision. We are making political decisions here, and we have a professional basis at our disposal, i.e. the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. And because of that, I don't want our decisions to be so conductive. But if someone else needs an apology for their actions and that's how responsibility is transferred to the agency, then I don't need to be here and I don't want to cooperate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. On the basis of the proposals, I propose that we redirect or refer such an invitation to the government. The government will be called as soon as we accept this. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Look, this whole story, I think it's spinning in a vicious circle right now. Let's do it one more time. For the first time, when we talk about the Agency, it is a law for an independent agency which does so, so it is said that it is not directly subordinated to any branch of authority, but acts in accordance with the law, in accordance with the powers it has received from the legislator. Secondly, if such a question were to be asked, then in this sense let it be said what individual rules set out, then it would probably be the address that our legal service, which I had previously wanted to raise with my own question, might not have been best formulated. But now that we ask the government what the powers of an agency are, this is what the legislation says, it is not necessary to ask governments. I believe, however, here I agree with these concerns that if they do not take any action before and then notify us of this measure, which is, of course, possible, then they will not be able to give us further notice of their decision, which they will issue only in the post-festum decision. That means we'll be back at the same point as we were today. That is why I have also suggested earlier that we take further steps and that we do not wait until Monday. Which is the only course that is legally undeniable, but I think I've been clear enough in the morning work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. In view of the debate, I note that there is no suitable consensus. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u72	I kind of feel like we're dealing with a thing that's not the kind of thing that the National Assembly does. The National Assembly is clearly defined what it can do and what institutions it can or cannot call upon. The National Assembly cannot even call on the government to do something, to submit something or to order it to do anything. He can suggest, he can, I don't know what. We are like many other situations now in a situation where we have a bill on the table and we have some open questions. It is expected, or I myself, that the Government, which is the drafter of the law, will obtain all the relevant arguments, papers and so on until the meeting is resumed and will serve us here with these conclusions, conclusions and so on. If we are to act in the event that someone is a bill-maker, and even if he is a Member, and he does not take care of all the necessary provisions of the law in order to really have an insight into the matter and also all the circumstances in order to be properly enlightened, then the proposer must ensure that this is done. And I think that the government has all the mechanisms, all the instruments to get this, what it wants to do through this conclusion, and to present it to us further. This seems to me to be the right and logical way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-20-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. In view of the debate, I am withdrawing this proposal and, in accordance with the agreement reached at the consultation of the parliamentary groups, I will obtain the opinions that have been proposed, both legislative and legal, as well as insurance control agencies. I am therefore withdrawing this proposal and this concludes the debate on the proposal. We're breaking up with that point. The third reading of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly when the legal and business conditions are met. I hereby adjourn the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed on Monday, 23.1.2006, at 4.00 p.m. Have a nice day.
