ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. Thank you very much. I begin the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Franz Kangler, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Jakob Presečnik, Bojan Starman, Janko Weber, Maria Possonec and Dara Lavtišar Bebler. I am informed that Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel will attend the meeting by 12 noon because a large group of Members or ministers with a prime minister and a large economic delegation to Russia leave this afternoon. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 23 May 2006. I have not received any proposals concerning the extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We're voting on the agenda. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 of whom voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the agenda, as proposed by the meeting, is set for the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - This is for the defence of the proposal for conclusions in response to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's response to plans for the construction of terminals for liquefied land gas in and in its coastal area. The draft conclusions were tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Paul Gantar. I give the floor to the representatives of the proposers to further explain the proposal. First of all, Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The construction of two gas terminals for liquefied natural gas in the Gulf of Markets and on the coast of Žavlje, which are planned in neighbouring Italy, is of course a serious cause for concern. The first look at the documentation obtained by the Italian authorities shows that it is a project that, if built in this size at the intended locations, will have significant cross-border environmental impacts that change the quality of life on the Slovenian side and completely degrade the whole range of development concepts on the Slovenian coast, on the sea and in the back. They will pose additional security risks and, of course, will affect the change in the North Adriatic navigation regime. It is necessary to know and acknowledge that Slovenia, as a country officially by the Italian authorities, has not been familiar with both projects that lie directly at the Slovenian border at sea and on land, although it is clear that both projects with their influences go beyond the border, but it is not necessary that Slovenia, informally or informally, or some officials, do not know about these plans. Both projects are characterised by the location in the area or in the sea of the Straža Bay by trying to minimize environmental and other impacts on the population and the environment on the Italian side, which, of course, brings them closer to the Slovenian territorial waters and to the Slovenian land borders in order to reduce, of course, the effects on the Italian side, thus, of course, increase on the Slovenian side. Once again, the rule, dear colleagues and colleagues, has been confirmed that objects and devices of a controversial nature sometimes try to locate them as far away from each other as possible and so on to push them into the arms of a neighbor. The Slovenian public and the government have learned of the planned projects from the media reports in February, and since then we have expected the Slovenian government to start applying the interests of the population and the economy affected by these projects. Unfortunately, we must find that the Slovenian government's response was silent and indecisive and also inadequate. Let me first explain why he was silent and undecided. Slovenia, as we know, is a member of the European Community, as is Italy. Both countries and all other Member States are subject to three directives, which I will not mention here, which discuss the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, not to mention, of course, other international conventions such as the EspO Convention, the Barcelona Convention, etc. In particular, these three Directives stipulate that when it comes to environmental impacts resulting from their cross-border impact, the EU Member State must inform the other Member State in which the impacts are concerned and include it in its wish to be included in the impact assessment. The provisions of these Directives are introduced into the Slovenian legal order in the Environmental Protection Act in Articles 44 and 45 and in some other articles. If I sum up, therefore, starting from the European acquis, Slovenia would, as soon as it learned about the project, require an assessment of the cross-border impacts on the environment and active participation in these procedures. This could be done on the basis of a well-founded assumption that it is one of the objects for which the environmental impact assessment is mandatory and that the terminals are undoubtedly, and that it is a location where cross-border environmental impacts can be expected, since there are, in fact, loving, cross-border impacts on the environment already immediately local impacts, since the proximity of the border is not so great. The government actually did that up to ten days ago. Minister Podobnik wrote a letter in March and asked for an official explanation. We have not seen the letters, the Minister has called for inclusion in the procedure, but it is not a clearly expressed diplomatic request. Yesterday we heard an expert say that in such cases governments communicate with each other with diplomatic mail and diplomatic notes. Minister Rupel held a few talks with Mr Illy, they all sounded understandable and friendly, similar to that of the Prime Minister, who, like the Foreign Minister, is trying to minimize the problem and ensure that the government is acting responsibly. If I merely point out to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša says that in the past months there has been a pre-election time in Italy that no one has taken this issue seriously in Rome, that there has not been a new government, that there is no practically relevant interlocutor to deal with certain things. Secondly, the problem is that there are no provinces in Slovenia and some procedures run at the provincial level. These are really excuses that can't handle any serious criticism. The elections in Italy were, in a pre-election and permissive time, the Italian administration was operating normally and normally as usual, the assessments and procedures relating to these two terminals are conducted independently of these elections. The reference to the fact that we have no regions in Slovenia and therefore we cannot react well is in itself inappropriate. Similarly, the foreign minister, who claims to say that, for example, he says, "As I am informed, I now speak domestically. There are quite a few obstacles on the way to making terminals a reality. In this "some obstacles" with the minister, I hope we can agree deeply. "I think that, above all, those at sea have no opportunity to make it happen because traffic is disrupting, etc. "In short, everyone minimizes in some way, puts the problem, as they say, into low fires and you will in itself happen that there will be no terminals. The terminals will be here if we don't react. The terminals will be if we react inappropriately. And the last time is for the Slovenian government to be aware of this and try to react as necessary. At the same time, we all had information that procedures, environmental impact assessments are taking place, but without any suspicion of cross-border environmental impacts. We therefore called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space on 18 April, but this was unfortunately a lost opportunity, since the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should require the Republic of Italy to stop the procedures with these terminals was not voted on. The government has set up an interdepartmental group that has prepared an expert assessment of the so-called "ex post" evaluation of this material received and the report of the Interdepartmental Group has revealed that there are important environmental, safety, traffic impacts that have been neglected and underestimated in the studies so far. It is only on the basis of this report that the government has formally identified, I stress - officially that these projects fall under these directives, which require a cross-border assessment of environmental impacts. We cannot refer to this as a silent and indecisive answer. By the way, the first diplomatic note sent by the Slovenian government was sent on the date of the extraordinary meeting; and the second time the government acted inappropriately. That environmental impact assessment procedures for both terminals are carried out, it is clear to everyone, even in the broadcast of the current commercial television POP TV, that is to say the Italian authorities replied that the procedures are under way. However, in response to the conclusions made by the initiators in the reference to this meeting, the government replied that the assessment procedure for the two gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets had not yet been initiated. At the request of clarification of the position on the Committee on Environment and Space, the Minister for Environment and Space said that this was their position, because Slovenia - beware" - since Slovenia is not yet included in the environmental impact assessment, the procedure is considered to have just begun. It's about, uh, dear colleagues and colleagues, as if I said, "Because I haven't gotten up yet this morning, it hasn't started for me yet." Procedures are under way and this is an extremely dangerous position. If Slovenia is not involved and environmental impact procedures are completed, we will be able to complain to the European Commission and then to the European Court of Justice and they will say, "Where have you been so far? You have not used your legal options," and we will, as it is called, be written off. That is why, clearly, the Committee on the Environment adopted two conclusions proposed by the opposition or the initiators who request or recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to require the Republic of Italy, on a diplomatic basis, to return the environmental impact procedures to the initial stage and to draw back the reports on the basis of assumptions on cross-border environmental impacts. The second conclusion is that, if this does not happen, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must initiate procedures with the Commission of the European Communities concerning the infringement of the Directives of the European Union with regard to the assessment of cross-border environmental impacts. If, in conclusion, I touch on the conclusions, as you know, we have proposed 11 conclusions, most of the conclusions have been rejected, the first three conclusions, which may be slightly more important than others, I can say in particular that the first decision has been rejected, which we regret that the two decisions have been adopted. We welcome this and hope that these two decisions, which are also included in the decisions adopted by the Committee, and we hope that, on the basis of these two decisions, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to respond appropriately and appropriately. Nevertheless, it is important to note that the government has not reacted as it should so far, so we have prepared an amendment to a certain decision and you will receive this amendment and we will be able to discuss it today. I'd like to remind you once again at the end, my respectable colleagues and colleagues. Italy has 8,000 kilometres of seashore, Slovenia has 46 kilometres of seashore. Of course, the feeling of the problem is quite different. If a country or a community, whoever it is, thinks that it can sacrifice a piece of a piece, say, a shore for some economic benefit, if it has 8 thousand, of course, Slovenia cannot think that way. If we accept these terminals in the way they are, the Slovenian coast has fallen only to our wishes. That is why, of course, I call on you today to adopt these conclusions, to also adopt the amendment and, of course, to give clear instructions to the government to act more decisively, more responsibly and more consistently in the exercise of vital Slovenian interests on the Slovenian coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u3	Thank you. As a second, Mr Aurelio Juri will speak on behalf of the applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u4	Dear colleagues, representatives of the government, have a nice day! Allow me to complete my colleague Gantar and further explain the reasons which led us to the convening of this meeting and the objectives we are pursuing. See, since the adoption of the resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia, we are all betting on the development opportunities offered by the sea, almost all, who more, who less. We are betting on Luka Koper, on her further business growth, on the interest expressed by the wider Central European environment in the use of its services and in increasing its capacity. We are betting on opening the so-called Adriatic motorways, betting on the further development of the General Navigation, as well as on nautical and other coastal tourism, on friendly health, as much as the natural environment, which is a prerequisite for any such ambition. We are trying to protect what remains from one of the important testimonies of cultural heritage and the cultural identity of this place. It's fishing. For all of this, the space, as we know, is metered. Any planning of interventions should therefore follow the principles of due diligence, prudence, prudence, rationality and functionality. There is also no room for sailing in abundance. We want to increase the amount of transshipment in the port and the profits from this title. Of course! But as much as possible with goods and goods that do not fight with the environment, nature and safety of people, and as little as possible - it is difficult to prevent them completely without risking even worse business damage - with those who are less friendly or more dangerous. We have probably already heard, if not before, at least these days, about the memorandum between Slovenia, Croatia and Italy on the separate shipping scheme adopted by the International Maritime Agency, which benefits from ensuring the safest and most current waterways. The profession and its presence by the competent state of administration remind us that the establishment and operation of a terminal at sea at the location envisaged would endanger and even prevent the implementation of this agreement and order, so that the safety of navigation provided today would deteriorate significantly. The new situation would require a change of waterways, resulting in increased traffic density in corridors that are already on the edge of capacity. The impact on marine habitats, on microclimate, on flora and fauna, on water currents, temperature, water quality, on the food chain, on fish stocks, on fishing activities, on tourism, they have said a lot more these days, which they can say better to others, so enough about this. We would rather go back to the basic question of our call: how much the government has done, how many all of us, in order to defend in time the dangers posed by the implementation of both projects. Were we effective and if we did not, what else should we do to be effective? Let's face it, despite the accelerated government activity that has been perceived in recent weeks, which is also evident in the attached government conclusions report, which you claim in the coalition: it is no longer possible to get rid of the feeling that Slovenia has been a little too hesitant about the scale and consequences of this story and in finding ways and ways to communicate its concerns and concerns to the Italian parties in a timely manner. It is difficult to get rid of the impression that it has only collapsed because of the increasingly concerned, reasoned, angry responses most affected the public and because of the activities of the opposition as well. This hesitation has certainly not contributed to the exercise of the authority that our country, as a member of the European Union and as a neighbour and as a partner in all relevant international conventions and arrangements, has in its reporting a respected and friendly neighbour that it has been obliged to take it seriously or as an equal interlocutor in the design, planning and possible implementation of projects. This is because it is two infrastructure monsters that are unique to cross-border nature due to the apparent cross-border environmental impacts that it does not know, as you know. And even more so because of the direct, physical intervention in the case of a platform at sea in the territorial sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. The safety belt, as you've read or heard, is entering the depth of a couple of miles into our waters around this facility. This situation itself justified and demanded an immediate formal protest response from the foreign ministry, which would have been of further benefit to the Italian side from the contracting authorities through project planners to all those responsible for their implementation, aware that it had to step up and invite Slovenia to join them or at least ask for permission to take part in its territory in the design of the plans. Unfortunately, all of this did not happen, and both projects continued uninterruptedly each way. The longest one came, as we have heard and know, a project or facility in Žavaje near Milja. They are now in such a stage that their return to the base is somewhat difficult. More money than we know is already invested in an object, the power of investors is greater. However, it is not impossible for our response to be more decisive and not more hesitant if our demanding legal and professional reasons are met, if our vision of the use and management of the North Adriatic is clear, consistent, long-term and feasible, and consistent with European guidelines and arrangements. I am certainly pleased that the government has finally found that the construction and operation of terminals would have significant, I repeat the government's assessment, significant cross-border impacts on the territory of Slovenia and that the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik, has called on the Italian colleague to meet as soon as possible or to conclude a protocol between governments on consultation on the cross-border impact of implementing plans and programmes on the environment. But the problem is not only traffic and environmental, it is also political. Therefore, the support given to the decisions will be very welcome, as it will certainly strengthen the mandate of the government. The hope that the government's more determined efforts will produce the desired fruits, or that the story of stopping or at least slowing down, or that we will do it differently, as we say, more coherently, partnerly and respectfully to the space and its inhabitants, to their concern for a healthy and secure future, is also understood from a variety of circumstances in the Italian neighbourhood itself, as the public is no less concerned than the Slovenian one. The chairman of the Committee of the Furlania-Julia Region, Mr Ricardo Illy, the biggest terminal advocate, after these were the only ones on the big bell, which, of course, he himself did not want, realized that a court-martial reunion with our foreign minister was not enough to appease passion. That it would not be possible to communicate and recommended to the Italian Government that the deadline for the intervention of the opinion of the affected Italian municipalities should be extended by a month, which is also beneficial to us, and that Slovenia should be adequately involved in the continuation of the procedures. He also responded to the three coastal Members, Pecanov, Pauli and my little ones, whom we had written and asked for admission at the end of March, in a soothing tone, without an invitation to the meeting, but with the accompanying extensive spatial landscape plan of Furlania-Julia, which he had sent last days, as I read, also to the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, and also responded with a willingness to provide further information. During this time, the affected Italian municipalities, I found out yesterday, except Trieste, that they had formulated a negative opinion to both terminals. So, build, market, miles, Devin, coastal. The environment that gives hope is even better if the Ministry of Environment and Space of the new Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi trusted Pecorar Scani, who is the leader of the Greens, a party who is a strong opponent in setting up two terminals in the neighbouring country. We can assume that our Slovenian "no" or our "go forward together" would be welcome when he has to shake this hot bone and make sure he doesn't burn with it. So let us not miss the opportunity this time when we already missed it a few weeks ago at the first meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space on the subject. Let us call on the Government to go beyond what has already been adopted to make it clear to Italy that the procedures for environmental impact assessment and the production of security assessments and risks should be returned to the initial stage, to warn it that, otherwise, it will be brought before the Commission of the European Communities for infringement of the European Union Directives on the assessment of cross-border impacts, only the Government will note that this has already happened and will also require the establishment of a mixed independent expert scientific commission for this assessment, and to invite it, together with Croatia, to continue the ongoing talks on the proclamation of the North Adriatic as an ecologically sensitive and protected area. In this context, it would also be useful to seek a path towards a common policy for the supply of space with gas and liquid fuels, in order to ensure that the delivery of natural gas and oil gas and other environmentally hazardous energy products follows the principles of real need, environmental and safety acceptability and not merely business interests. Instigators of today's session believe that there are safer and generally acceptable locations to build such platforms, if we need them. Here, when I ask this question, let us convey the warning of Italian naturalists, who were not denied that Furlania-Julian landscape does not yet have its own energy plan and that it is already fully supplied; therefore, it is only for business interest and not for the actual need of this country. It is true that solutions can be more expensive in safer locations, but the safety and health of space and people should not be priced. So, I urge you to agree to support the conclusions and the committees and also the motioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u5	Thank you. The draft conclusions were addressed by the Committee on the Environment and Space, which prepared a complementary proposal for conclusions. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Petan, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee met on the basis of the request of the Group of Members and Members for an extraordinary meeting on the envisaged terminals, gas terminals, in the Adriatic Sea with the first-signed Member, Dr Paul Gantar. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food also participated in the meeting on behalf of the proposer. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft conclusions and the report on the work of the Interdepartmental Commission was available. The representatives of the proposalr, Dr Pavel Gantar and Aurelio Juri, focused mainly on the proposed conclusions in the introductory presentation of the issue. They stressed that the objectives of the reference initiatives were mainly to encourage the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take more decisive action and to support the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in doing so with appropriate views. By this means, the Republic of Slovenia will send a clear message to the Republic of Italy that it does not agree with the existing procedures for planning the construction of two gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. The Minister for Environment and Space, Janez Podobnik, initially explained some basic views. The Adriatic Sea is the most endangered sea in the Mediterranean due to its geographical location, shallowness, land pollution and pressures due to rising traffic flows. Therefore, care for the effective protection of the Slovenian sea is one of our main priorities. Slovenia is a maritime country where economic and social activities related to the sea are a valuable added value and the value of our country as a whole. The Republic of Slovenia has therefore adopted a law declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone. Integrity is inevitable in the protection of ecosystems, which also have a cross-border impact. In doing so, we have also taken into account the emerging law of the European Union, which places great emphasis on the regional approach to addressing environmental issues. Regardless of the important European consequences of the energy crisis, the trend of a comprehensive approach to environmental issues remains. Since Slovenia is particularly sensitive to cross-border environmental impacts due to its predominantly transit geographical position, the Ministry will make every effort to implement the idea of an environmental regional approach, which will also be one of the priorities of the Ministry in setting up a joint programme for the Presidency of the European Union. Regardless of the basic origins and developments of international and environmental law, putting gas terminals into space has now become an interstate issue. In particular, the Minister stressed that in a letter sent to the Italian Minister on 18 April, he also submitted a proposal for an interstate cooperation procedure as a draft protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on consultations on cross-border impacts, implementation of plans, environmental programmes and others. Minister Podobnik also took note of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the meeting on 25.5.2006. Mr Kokalj also participated in the meeting, which stressed that the contacts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Slovenian diplomats in the BKP network were numerous and continuous, as is evident from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Ministry of Transport, Jadran Luin, Director General of Maritime Directorate, pointed out that the planned location of the "off shore" terminal in the Gulf of Tržaška significantly interferes with the tripartite agreement, which introduces a common navigation system and separate navigation scheme in the northern Adriatic, concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Croatia and Italy in 2002 in Ancona. There was a general debate. Taking into account the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for conclusions, the report on the work of the Interdepartmental Commission to establish views on the issue of gas terminals, the report on the findings of the cross-border impacts of the construction and operation of two gas terminals in the Gulf and its coastal area, and the discussions at the meeting of the Committee adopted seven decisions, of which three were adopted by the proposers, four were drawn up by the Committee and one was amended, so that these decisions were now submitted in the form and are part of the report of this Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u7	Thank you. With regard to the report of the home working body, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that qualified applicants can submit amendments or amendments to the supplementary draft decisions by the end of the general debate of Members and Members. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u8	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the Government's position on the content of the agenda item for which you have decided to address it at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and in the second part the Government's position will also be presented by the distinguished Foreign Minister, Dr Dimitrij Rupel. Slovenia is a maritime country where economic and social activities related to the sea are of its valuable value. We need to make effective use of sovereign rights in relation to the protection and preservation of the marine environment, so we have declared the ecological zone and also notified it to the United Nations in February. The effective protection of the Slovenian Sea is one of the main priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also of the Ministry of Environment and Space. But it can only come from the protection of the entire Adriatic Sea. This is also based on the evolving law and principles of the European Union, which emphasises a regional approach to environmental problems. Our legislation and policy is an upgrade to European policies in this area. All the options offered by national and various forms of international law and cooperation are used in the direction of sustainable development and the use of the valuable marine ecosystem and coastal area. We are also active under the Barcelona Convention. Since Slovenia is currently the chairman of the Barcelona Convention, allow me to provide only a few basic information on this matter, which is still related to today's agenda. Last November, at the 14th regular session of the Barcelona Convention in Portorož, we adopted a Mediterranean strategy for sustainable development, which imposes on coastal countries coordinated planning for the use of the marine ecosystem and coastal areas. Slovenia actively implements these principles in practice through technical projects, action plans for the prevention and management of pollution caused by accidents at sea. It is preparing a plan for the operation of ballast waters in the Adriatic and a management plan for the coastal area. All three projects were proposed by Slovenia, within the framework of the tripartite Commission for the Protection of the Adriatic Sea, also for the implementation of neighbouring countries as well as other Adriatic countries in the framework of the Adriatic Ionian Initiative. The projects were welcomed and supported and their preparation will continue between 4 and 7 June, i.e. next week in Portorož as part of the preparation of a strategy for sustainable development in the Adriatic, with the participation of various public organisations, i.e. NGOs and professional contributions. On 7 June, then, a workshop will be held to accelerate the preparation of a management plan for ballast waters on the Adriatic, which will also help to promote the Adriatic as a particularly sensitive area. The Ministry of Environment and Space is also working to establish a modern organisation, in cooperation with international organisations, for the management of the Adriatic marine resources, based on the references of the Republic of Slovenia in the preparation and implementation of the Sava Basin Framework Agreement. It is the implementation of the principles imposed by the European acquis, the Water Directive, the Maritime Directive, the Maritime Strategy in both regions shared by the Republic of Slovenia with neighbouring countries. Also in the spirit of the forthcoming Presidency of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia will include, as its programme priorities for the Presidency, the adoption or supplementation of European Union legislation in the field of the environment in that part relating to the participation of Member States in the planning of measures that reduce cross-border environmental impacts due to the transport of air pollution, cross-border movement of contaminated surface waters or the spread of pollution by sea. Slovenia is not only a transit country for the transport of goods and services, but is strongly influenced by the transit of pollution through air and water. Western winds in Slovenia bring pollutants, mainly ozone and dust particles in quantities that cause the quality standards to be exceeded to a good part of Slovenian territory. However, we share almost increasing surface water and the northern part of the Adriatic with the Member States of the European Union. During the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Union will also conclude the process of adopting two Directives on the quality of the external air and the marine environment, which gives the Republic of Slovenia the opportunity to put the relevant emphasis on the cooperation of neighbouring countries in achieving the environmental objectives set out by these Directives as co-chairs of the European Union. The question is gas terminals. The primary interstate issue is in our vicinity. A holistic approach and full interdepartmental coordination is a fundamental condition for a credible performance. We must properly use national experts, as well as the expertise of the European Union, the Commission of the European Union and other institutions. The important thing is that we are comprehensively well prepared. The enforcement of environmental interests within the European Union has not yet been addressed, either from a legal and technological point of view of the rich practice in this area or not. The fact that Italy has also been in an unenviable situation in the past in terms of meeting obligations under European law reminds us that we need to be more careful. And that's why we did it systematically and consistently. Immediately after the initial information, as Minister of Environment and Space, I requested an official explanation from the Italian Ambassador. Despite the official assurance that these projects are in the design phase, after consulting legal experts, I firmly believe that I have reacted in a credible and internationally accepted manner. On 16 March this year, I took advantage of the opportunity given to me by international law and European Union law and requested the inclusion in environmental impact assessment procedures under Article 45 of the Environmental Protection Act. Following the non-technical summaries obtained of one of the projects accompanied by the claim that the terminal is not subject to a cross-border assessment under the EspO Convention, I replied on 5 April with a letter to request, I stress, that we request that the procedure be included in the procedure that cross-border impacts are already evident from the dossiers submitted. On 6 April, the Government set up an Inter-Resort Working Group to formulate proposals for the positions of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area. On 18 April, I sent a letter to my current colleague, Mr Matteoli, protesting, as on 5 April, the incomplete documentation relating to the second Žavelin Terminal, while at the same time in the spirit of good-neighbourly relations, international law and European law in this area, proposing the conclusion of a special protocol to intervene, in particular with energy facilities, in a comprehensive and joint manner in the northern Adriatic area. This is a form of agreement provided for by the EEA Convention and provided for by Directive 2001 and Directive 85/337 of the European Economic Community. That's his official name. With a special letter from the Director-General for the Environment of our Ministry, on 26 April, we also set ourselves up until the one-month deadline set for us by the Director-General in a letter dated 3 April, namely a bilateral technical meeting, while at the same time our minimum, I stress the minimum period of 6 months in which, once the documentation has been completed, our cross-border environmental impact procedure could be completed. On 25 May, on congratulations to the new Minister of the Environment, I explained the entire situation and position of our Government, which, on the basis of the Inter-ministerial Working Group and the expert working group, stated that the Republic of Slovenia has a legitimate request for inclusion in the process, as there are significant cross-border impacts of the construction and operation of both terminals. So they exist. I have again pointed out that the most appropriate way to resolve this issue is to conclude the already proposed protocol, which will solve the situation in question in the most comprehensive and pertnerial manner. More information on these certain procedures, which have a particular international dimension, will be presented later by Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs. In addition to coordination between ministries and government services, the Interdepartmental Working Group also identified the tasks of specific expert groups of experts from some important Slovenian institutions; if listed: the National Institute of Biology, the Institute of Jožef Štefan, the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana and the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. From the technical documentation sent to us by the Ministry of Environment of the Italian Republic for the two terminals, the expert group identified the relevant cross-border impacts of the construction and operation of each of the two gas terminals by means of the individual content sets by European and international law. From an environmental point of view, due to adverse effects on the aquatic environment of the Strait of the market, the toxic cleaning agents used in terminal pipelines against treatment with marine organisms, the refrigerated water dispersion resulting from the use of marine water for liquefied natural gas and, in particular, the metallic compounds dispersion, and in particular the remobilised mercury, with the resuspension of sediments at the time of construction and operation of gas terminals in the market bay and its coastal area. The transboundary impact of a potential gas terminal at sea in the Gulf of Markets was demonstrated by the proposed gas terminal in its report, which shows that seawater, which is cooler than 0.1%, ranges more south than the territorial waters in Slovenian waters. In this regard, there is also a problem of chlorination of marine heating water to prevent the accumulation of marine organisms in heat exchangers, also mentioned by the applicant for the gas terminal. The main problem in the operation and construction of the gas terminal is the occurrence of sediment resuspension due to drainage and sediment, which contains elevated mercury concentrations. In this respect, mercury is reactivated and subsequently appears in a monomethyl mercury form. But it accumulates in marine organisms. It is therefore expected to increase the concentrations of this form of mercury in the water and consequently also in the fishes of the Straits Bay and also in the wider northern Adriatic. It is expected that the problem of mobility and the conversion of mercury will be particularly acute at the time of construction when the sediment is drained and decommissioned, as well as during the operation of the gas terminal. The following conclusion is made in view of the adverse effects on marine biodiversity of the whole of the North Adriatic due to the transfer of harmful and pathogenic organisms to this area by vessels with significantly increased maritime traffic and the failure of ballast waters to manoeuvre in the discharge of fossil gas vessels. Ships, it is known, are one of the most important vectors of the transmission of harmful aquatic organisms and pathogens around the world, the invasive species is called professionally. The negative effects are reflected in the natural environment and the economy, as well as in human health. Transfers of these invasive species today have a negative impact on global biodiversity change. Invasive species are transported by ships with ballast waters or as the growth of a ship's hull, or in various closed elements of the ship, or attached to ship's trailers, or on the ship itself. New links to ports outside the Mediterranean pose a direct threat to the introduction of invasive species. Even if we conclude that the ports of origin will only be within the Mediterranean, there is a risk of introduction as ports are already infected within the Mediterranean, especially the southern part. Any additional traffic with them thus increases the risk of harmful and, consequently, cross-border impacts. In the case of both terminals, traffic is treated cumulatively and therefore the transport relationship is even more critical. The third aspect is economic and social. Because of the negative effects of the changed view and the panorama for the further development of tourism, and also because of the negative effects of the changed ecological state of the sea on fisheries on the Slovenian coast. The impact on the landscape is clearly and unequivocally cross-border, as the intervention is planned closer to Slovenia than to the Italian coast. The impact on the landscape is undoubtedly greater on the Slovenian side than on the Italian side, at least for the following reasons: the proximity of the intervention is greater; the sensitivity of the panorama is greater due to the very important tourist area and coastal areas on our side and also due to the position of the sightseeing sites; the presence of areas of great importance, as the coast itself is a very limited value of national importance and geomorphological area, especially cliffs, and protected areas - especially here would mention the Strunjan landscape park or areas of cultural and urban heritage, which applies to all coastal cities -inclusion in the high-land integrity system, which is undoubtedly the Slovenian part of the coastline - the landscape qualities of the Slovenian coastal area are also the basis of today's coastal tourism. It is one of the most important tourist destinations in Slovenia. The landscape quality and importance of the area on the value scale is also indirectly reflected in the high demand and prices of real estate, which are the highest in the country in addition to Ljubljana. The terminal could have an impact both on the development of tourism and on the prices of real estate, mainly due to the pruning of people, as such facilities are linked to the negative consequences, if mentioned, landscape degradation and environmental pollution as well as potential accidents. The fourth aspect is traffic-safety due to the requirements of safe navigation to the terminal in the Gulf of Markets, which has a significant impact on the agreed and internationally approved maritime transport regime in this part of the Slovenian Sea. The establishment of a terminal in the Gulf of Markets would have a negative impact on the level of safety of navigation agreed with the bilateral international contract. Assuming a possible competent manoeuvre to the north side of the terminal, a vessel with liquefied natural gas should enter the separation zone which distinguishes the entry path to the Gulf of Markets from the exit, which is not in accordance with the rules. In the event of a terminal rounding, such as a counterclockwise landing, the manoeuvre would be longer, more difficult and therefore more dangerous also by obstructing traffic in the area. It is also envisaged that each such ship should receive a pilot in the area of separate navigation, in Slovenian territorial waters. As a result, it constitutes an amendment to the agreement on navigation in the Gulf of Markets between Italy and Slovenia. These findings were also the contents of a letter sent by the Minister of Transport of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to his new Italian colleague a few days ago. There is also another aspect, this is a general security aspect. Due to the risk for the Slovenian coast, due to the possibility of unforeseen or uncontrolled combustion of the steam cloud of the inhaled natural gas and heat radiation resulting therefrom. In the event of major discharges from such tanks or reservoirs on the terminal, its evaporation and explosion it is certain that the affected areas will also reach the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. There may also be cracks on the proposed very large reservoirs on the terminal. The transboundary effects of deserts through relatively small openings of diameters of one to five metres are possible, and at a distance of 1,000 metres, such openings have a significant effect on people and also on property. In general, therefore, the areas around the gas terminal can be divided into three dangerous zones. The first zone is up to 500 meters with great influences and dangers, the second is between 500 and 1600 meters medium impact and the third zone at 1600 meters - minor impacts. The evaluation of cross-border impacts mainly in terms of harmful environmental effects in the widest sense is a matter of follow-up. In any event, this first evaluation is crucial, since, on the one hand, our procedural legitimacy continues to be included in the process despite the first arguments made by the Italian side and, on the other hand, this is already the beginning of the procedure, in accordance with the environmental law, which requires that the cross-border impact be first identified, which can then be carried out in accordance with the relevant procedures. We have also obtained an analysis of some of the cases carried out under the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment on cross-border cases, and we also have in detail the following: in the period 1997/1999 Italy was included in four procedures, two as an affected country and two as an intervention country; Croatia in four procedures, Ukraine in three, Bulgaria in one process; and Sweden in nine; mostly as an affected country; Norway one; Finland six; Russia three; and most of all, the Netherlands in 30 cases. In those years, there was also one case, one case where the Parties did not agree on whether there was an important cross-border impact and also one case of disagreement with the procedures. All the procedures were therefore at the project level, as defined by the Convention as a minimum, and they were very different. As a result of our partnership or position, we have based the right of the Republic of Slovenia not to suffer direct and direct damage in its territory on the basis of professional origins, including on the latest achievements of science and on the consistent protection of our legal situation. Dear Members and Members! Our concern for national interests at sea and coast in the North Adriatic is shared, and when it comes to common interests, it is particularly important that we step together and that each of us do everything in our power to exercise this interest. I believe that the role of Parliament here is also important and that parliamentary contacts and efforts of each of you, honourable Members and Members, are also important in the mosaic of genuine and comprehensive partnership between countries even when it comes to important environmental issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u9	Thank you, Minister. Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Like many Slovenians, like most Primors, like Members, as well as other members of the government, I agree that the state border does not in itself protect and prevent bad influences, threats, accidents and worries. The concern for nature, in addition to the increasing number of modern influences and phenomena, does not know borders. This applies in particular to border areas and in particular to countries with small distances and narrow borders. On the other hand, this applies to all possible hazards, irrespective of their national or national origin, to Italian, to Austrian, to Croatian, to Slovenian industrial energy or to other devices at or near borders, although some of the impacts range very far. This also means that sometimes it is difficult to separate internal and external policies. This means that the whole range of so-called domestic activities has an external policy component, which is particularly and every day more obvious in view of our membership in the European Union. In some areas, we have one or the same common European policy, which is the result of agreements between representatives of all Member States. European meetings are known not only to be attended by foreign ministers, but also by financial, transport, agricultural and other ministers who are directly involved in the operation and design of European policies. The fact is that we have an influential European environmental transport policy, as well as other policies. Recent discussions on the common energy policy have been held in the European Union. In doing so, let me say that virtually no European country can solve its energy situation or crisis on its own, nor can Slovenia. Today's energy crisis is not Slovenian and Slovenia is too small to have an independent energy security policy. Our energy security is linked to integration into the common European energy policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe and Slovenia are becoming clean energy consumers. Europe imports 70% of its oil needs, the image applies to gas. European consumption is increasing faster than traditional suppliers can supply, so new capacities are needed. The situation in southern and south-eastern Europe, which is largely dependent on Russian energy, is particularly worrying. In short, we are in the middle of an energy competition and we need to secure them. Some strategic pipelines and pipelines are being or are being built around Slovenia. Both Slovenia and the European Union must develop a common and internal consistent energy security strategy. Slovenia must not be excluded, this seems to me an essential message, Slovenia must not be excluded from the European energy networks. European energy policy was recently discussed by the President of the European Commission, Barroso, on a visit to Ljubljana. We have also foreseen energy as one of the priorities for the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2008. Of course, it would be best if we had enough alternative, renewable, so-called green energy, but the share of such energy in Europe is between 5% and 7%. This percentage is likely not to exceed 25% or 30% in the near future. An important part of the Slovenian Prime Minister's recent talks with German Chancellor Merklovo concerned European and German plans for more efficient and cost-effective energy consumption. The discussion on energy security concerns alternative sources and alternative suppliers. Energy security in southern and south-eastern Europe will also depend on gas and gas pipelines linking the Caspian Energy to consumers in south-eastern and southern Europe. In late August, we will also have, with a view to our previous Presidency of the Organisation for Safe Cooperation in Europe and with a view to the future Presidency of the European Union in Bled, a major international conference entitled Caspian prospects, in the hope of 2008. Caspian energy is the key, it is led by many different, and is disputed by plans and networks. Slovenia, as it is said, must not remain isolated, but must soon decide where it will go. Energy security is one of the key themes for the future of the European Union. The establishment of a reliable energy security system is one of the key strategic tasks of the European Union. The competition for energy sources is intensifying and we need to find answers to the challenges in this area in the European Union. Due to the high energy dependence on a handful of suppliers and thus a strong vulnerability, the common concern for all European countries is to achieve sustainable, competitive and diversified energy supply, which is being addressed in March this year by a Green Paper on the development of a harmonised European energy policy. The current European energy situation is also due to more than a 20-year standstill in investment in such infrastructure. In this context, it is necessary to understand the emergence of a whole range of new initiatives, including Italian gas terminal construction initiatives. In this regard, I draw attention to the 2003 TEN-E Decision, European Parliament and Council Decision No 1229 setting out two gas terminals in the North Adriatic, in a general manner and without specific determination of the location of each terminal. Slovenia also supports the European Union's energy priorities, especially when it has become a member. We are interested in developing a common vision of energy security in a constructive inter-neighbourly dialogue, but we cannot agree with projects that would have a detrimental cross-border impact in Slovenia. I am therefore convinced that we owe no particular political and dramatic emphasis on negotiating or negotiating possible and acceptable locations for any energy facility in the northern Adriatic. Given the recent appointment of the new Italian government, I believe that the time has come for intensive negotiations and arrangements. This is a professional matter, and I am sure that we will find a good solution in the agreement with Italian colleagues. With regard to the responses of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the plans for the construction of two gas terminals for liquefied natural gas in the Gulf of Markets, I should first point out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has advocated, from the outset, that the responsible and strong representation of Slovenian interests is possible only on the basis of serious and professionally justified analyses. We have always stressed that we are responsible in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries and will co-decision on the planned Italian projects, but prior to this we need to obtain relevant information and documentation, conduct expert discussions and obtain any further clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation and evaluation procedures at the implementation level - the project level for both gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, i.e. the procedures in which Slovenia wants to participate, have not yet begun. Although the conference of services for the land terminal project started on 19 October 2005, the project on land investor has not yet completed the necessary administrative procedures and the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet started the environmental impact assessment process. The first meeting of the Maritime Terminal Conference took place on 19 April 2006. They did not make any decisions at the conference, but it was a technical presentation of the project. In this case, too, the environmental impact assessment process has not yet begun. As a result of the recent provision of Italian political representatives, the new Italian government will invite Slovenia to participate in the service conference when the environmental impact assessment is considered. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we have done a number of diplomatic activities ourselves so far. It is two meetings with the Prime Minister of the Furlania-Julia Region, the Italian ambassadors in Slovenia in March, before the initiative of the opposition members of the National Assembly. We have received from President Illy, regardless of what may be heard or read in the media, the first important information about the projects in the Gulf of Markets. Only on the basis of this data have we been able to take appropriate steps. Also active were my colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Slovenian diplomats in Rome and Trieste, who had many meetings with the authorities of Italy and Furlania-Julia, although there was a pre-electional mood at the top. Already in March, the MZZ drew attention to the excitement of Slovenian citizens and to the concern of the local population and NGOs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was initially focused on obtaining non-technical and technical documentation between 3 and 19 April. The acquisition of this documentation was crucial for the start of the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group to form the positions of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of the "gas terminal in the Gulf and its coastal area", i.e. the group set up by the Government on 4 April. I estimate that the working group, including the participation of a representative of our ministry, has done an important job. In the interests of credibility and its findings on cross-border impact, the fact is that it also included external independent experts from the National Institute of Biology, the Marine Biological Station in Piran, the Regional Development Agency in Cyprus, the Faculty of Maritime Affairs, the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy and the Institute of Joseph Štefan. Among the cross-border impacts identified by the Interdepartmental Working Group, I stress the congestion of traffic and the increased risk of accidents. He spoke about this a little while ago, colleague Podobnik. The fact is that the possible establishment of terminals would constitute a breach of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic for the introduction of a common navigation system and a separate navigation scheme in the northern part of the northern Adriatic, and would prevent safe navigation, I stress the impeding of safe navigation in the Gulf of Serbia. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! We now have a professionally substantiated analysis to prove the process legitimacy of Slovenia, and the right to participate in the assessment procedures is true. Let me stress that I intend to take part in the procedures already in the stage of the adoption of plans and programmes, we want to participate in the strategic-planned environmental impact assessment of all projects planned by the Italian side in the Gulf of Markets or in the northern Adriatic. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs therefore, by note of 22 May, called on the Italian side to conclude the procedure for the conclusion of the so-called protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic on consultations on the cross-border impact of the implementation of plans and programmes on the environment, in accordance with the initiative of the Minister of Environment and Space of 18 April. In the same diplomatic note, Slovenia reiterated its expectation that Slovenia, in accordance with international law and European Union law, will be involved in all procedures to identify possible cross-border impacts on the environment, that all issues related to potential interventions into sensitive areas in this part of the Adriatic Sea and Crassus and in the immediate vicinity of the state border will be resolved in a joint agreement at the inter-state level and when examining all possible environmental, economic and social and security consequences of any such interventions. In a diplomatic note dated 25 May, Slovenia requested that the Italian Republic provide additional documentation on the plans mentioned above. This note should contain a description, assessment and consideration of the cross-border impacts of gas terminals on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In this note, we have also pointed out the possible dispute over the planned location of the Marine Gas Terminal in the Gulf of Markets and have made a request for more detailed explanations and clarifications. We will continue to inform the European Commission of all the key steps taken by the Slovenian side and of our views on respect for or non-compliance with the European acquis. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided comprehensive technical and substantive support to the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economy in all its activities relating to gas terminals so far, both in their communication and in correspondence with the Italian side. This type of support of our ministry can continue to be relied on by colleagues in these departments. In the light of the fact that energy security will be one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, let me add that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is one of the initiators of the active planning approach to the future Slovenian energy policy. An official visit by the Slovenian Prime Minister to the Russian Federation, accompanied by the strongest and most numerous economic delegations, is now under way and will also be devoted to a discussion on the construction of gas pipelines that could provide Slovenia more effectively. The Russian gas pipeline from Hungary via Slovenia could be connected to the connection to the Italian gas system. A possible agreement on this could provide a realistic and timely alternative to planned gas terminal projects. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, let me ensure that the Government continues to work towards the full realization and protection of Slovenian interests in a way that will take the best possible account of the interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens and of the local population. As we have done so far, our actions will be based entirely on the conclusions adopted by this assembly. As before, we will continue to report our activities to the competent bodies of the national assembly and to the public. With regard to the initiative of the proposers of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to "certain the possible objective responsibility of individual public function holders and the appropriate measure", I must conclude that we cannot be held accountable for what is yet to happen, and even less for what is most likely to not happen. For the time being, the terminal issue is not a particularly burning foreign policy problem, but if we do not look at the strategic issues of energy security, the terminals can be seriously exacerbated at the external policy level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bajc will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u12	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished by the Minister with his fellow Members and co-workers! All together beautiful, especially productive and, I hope that at the end of today's session, I also want a substantive day! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we assess the right of colleagues and colleagues from both opposition parties and with the first-signed Dr. Paul Gantar and colleagues Aureli Yuri. We estimate that their proposals for conclusions follow their justification for convening an extraordinary meeting of this National Assembly on the information published in the two newspapers, as well as by the neighbouring countries themselves. This information, which was published in these newspapers in the first half of February on 17 February, occurred for three months. From the material provided to us by both the government and the individual ministries, it is possible to conclude that, on the basis of these two information, many things have happened both within individual ministries and within the government, either in private or in written communication between the individual ministries of our country and the ministries of the neighbouring country, as between individual representatives of the individual ministries of our country and the neighbouring country. We do not understand or understand that the proposals made by the first-signed Dr. Gantar and colleague Aurelio Yuri, when they submitted the request for an extraordinary meeting on 18 May, are not taken into account or not listed. If we read all eleven conclusions, especially the first, we can see that it did not actually happen in the middle. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we share, in the notes, joy. On Friday afternoon, when we considered the proposal and the proposals of the eleven conclusions, as well as the materials available to us and available to us today at this plenary session, we can see that both colleagues, on behalf of the parties presented to this Committee, have found that in a number of areas, particularly in the field of work and operation of the Ministry of Environment and Space, including the Ministry of Transport and, lastly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have done a number of things and that many of the proposals of the decisions transmitted by the proposers have also been consummated. Let me try, I do not want to repeat myself in view of the fact that the two ministers who presented the position of their ministries, including the governments, kept repeating, however. I would like to point out that, on the basis of this information in the media which appeared on 17 February of this year, the government or the Ministry of Environment and Space had already requested, on 16 March, an official information from the Ministry of State, that it had received a response that it had re-examined or sent a letter to the relevant Ministry of the Environment and Space on 5 April so that, as a result, it would resume its correspondence on 18 May and that the last correspondence by the Ministry of Environment and Space was on 26 April. I think that in his presentation, Minister Janez Podobnik has presented extensively all the chronology and all the legal provisions governing this area in one way or another with regard to the possible planned construction of two gas terminals, as well as all the international treaties that are likely to be in the future - I think that some of the European conventions that will be signed in the future have contributed to the final solution or final agreement on the construction of gas terminals. I would like to remind you of what both Ministers have not mentioned in their presentations, but I think that my colleague Juri mentioned that we, or our ministries as well as the government, have reacted, as the Italian interested public has reacted, that we have said directly to the affected municipalities beyond the border, and I think that, in recent days, my colleague Juri has also mentioned that the Greens have also responded from the neighbouring country. According to the information provided to us by the two candidates, colleague Yuri and Dr Gantar, at the end of April, the Greens from the neighbouring Furlania-Julia landscape were also included, and we are therefore assessing in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the government, as well as its departmental ministries, has responded in a timely, appropriate and substantive manner to developments related to the possible construction or acquisition of appropriate documentation for the construction of two gas terminals in the northern Adriatic. Next, what I would like to say on behalf of the parliamentary group, we agree with the thinking of colleague Aurelia Juri when he said that it is necessary to build on the professional requirements of the central institutions of the neighbouring country. I don't think you expected, colleagues from both opposition parties, that a single ministry will either react with a protest note or a dispatch or I don't know what terminology is used in diplomatic relations, based on a record in the market newspaper Il Piccolo. The government is in the initial phase, I have listed some dates, both ministers have also tried to reach the relevant professional documents in this correspondence, on the basis of which a comprehensive report could be prepared by the Government; on the basis of the findings of this report, I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also submitted an official note on 25 May, drawing attention to the issue of the inclusion or non-inclusion of our country or individual ministries in the establishment of eventual future terminals. For this reason, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposals for decisions adopted by the mother labour body together with the amendments, and we also assess in these proposals that the government and individual ministries have responded accordingly. In these proposals, we are sending the conclusions for further cooperation, which should contribute to finding an appropriate legal solution, which will also regulate what Minister Rupel has said that Europe or the bulk of it is energy hungry, but not to satisfy Europe with such arrangements, which will have on the other hand all those negative connotations or any negative solutions that may arise with such a future or such construction of gas terminals, and the consequences that our government has identified as inter-ministerial commission with representatives of individual ministries. As it is said, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposals for conclusions adopted by the Home Committee with a single aim to ensure that the trend or efforts of individual ministries, including the whole government, are involved in solving the issue of the construction of two gas terminals with as few environmental consequences as possible, not only our directly affected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but the entire Northern Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u14	Have a nice hello to you all. Both ministers said that it was important information to know what to do and that it was necessary to have information. It seems that our embassy in Rome has not been able to get the right data, nor has our COVA intelligence service, which, in fact, appears to be working very badly. That is why I would like to hand over what the Slovenian National Party has acquired. Here is the complete documentation, plans, drawings, calculations, everything about gas terminals. And this is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for the Minister for the Environment, there are data, including those that the Italians have not given to our government. The fact is that both gas terminals are being built as a whole. And if I limit myself to just a few generals, there will be a reduction in the sea temperature that will not only be 5 degrees, but it will continue, because when the sea temperature is less than 5 degrees, it will still have to cool those pipes or cause gas evaporation and the sea temperature will fall and fall and fall, so that it can fall to a constant temperature of 15 degrees Celsius, which means that the entire ecosystem will collapse. The olive tree will no longer be in Primorsk, the vine will grow poorly, and in short all the agroms will be more or less infertile. That's what's gonna happen. Total environmental disaster. That's another thing. The varekina used to clean these devices is intended to increase the concentration of the porcine in seawater to 2%. That's terrible, because a few miles ago killed all the micro-organisms, and I don't know what to kill in the Adriatic Sea. Come in. Terrorism. Remember the '70s when Black September burned down the terminals in Trieste that were burning. It's just lucky that the wind blew to the other side, that there were no worse victims. Today, an aerosol cloud is created by an explosion or by the ignition of one such terminal. This is already being done, the Americans know it, these projects are already done, and as we know, terrorists are not far behind them, and they can also read the internet, and it can happen that we lose both Venice and Trieste, Piran, Portorož and much of the coast. Oil spills from tankers that deliver everything. No one can imagine what this spill means. In this case, the end of Slovenian tourism is for the next 80 years. The possibility of other ships having collisions with tankers is greatly increased and, as a result, can lead to oil spills. Then contamination of this part of the Adriatic Sea with foreign organisms, terrifying. In addition, 10,000 tons, or some 10,000 tons, of mercury, which is now in the mud in this upper part of the Adriatic Sea, would rise. I've only listed a few dangers, I haven't talked about any economic damage, I haven't talked about ecology, and I don't know everything. It is important to be aware that the Italians are working, and we are staring at them. The fact is, the Italians already have a whole species or almost everything, most of the consensus to build terminals, and we speak as if we were at the beginning, and it is important to realize that Lachs have never kept their word in history and have never spoken the truth. We don't know what we're looking at here, like, I don't know, big friends, charity. Italians think only of their own benefit and nothing else. And so are the Spaniards. Why don't the Spanish build this Spanish company, why doesn't it build it somewhere on the Spanish coast or somewhere else? Not because of the economic benefits, the closest thing to central Europe is to blame the part where the Spanish are not affected. Tourism on the Italian side, in this above part, must be silent, because the fact is that the Italian authorities have silenced the Greens with threats to take away all their subsidies, all their subsidies and not get anything more to survive. The fishing population has been silenced by paying and providing compensation for all the lost ones, and they simply refuse to allow all the others to talk on the political line. The media, too, cannot talk about media freedom in Italy, because it is in this area that the media should not publish anything that would be detrimental to these projects. We on the Slovenian side, after all, may also think so. Their idea of the rapal border is still alive. But I wonder what other Slovenians are doing, political February, like the mayor of Kori, Mr Popovic, is actually quietly working with the Italians, saying nothing and counting on how he will benefit. Our MEPs, I don't know what they're doing in the European Parliament, why they don't get up, why they don't raise their voices, why, if anything, they don't write a banner. I know Borut Pahor would be hard to do because he's more or less in the gym, but at least the others could do it. Then what are our media doing? There's a hell of a lot about these terminals, when we should be writing on the front pages about the danger of everything. But our research journalists, they don't care. We prefer to see on the front page a photo of a new lavette with Polish flowers on its head. Sad and shameful for a country that is considered to be the first among the new members. That is why I think it makes sense that all of our Members, even in here, are in order to raise this issue in all international forums. I have already raised the issue of terminals at the meeting of the Defence Committee of the Assembly of the Western European Union, and I have requested that a report be written on these matters to be drawn up in all segments. Of course, the Italians jumped up and were against it, so the matter is not yet decided whether or not it will be, we will see. Otherwise, it must be borne in mind that Europe, the European community itself, is now working on a new fusion energy project, a fusion project, and that is what will bring about a future energy solution. Surely, however, there is no need to blame everything in the meantime. If the Lachs are winding up their land, let them "roll" it down, somewhere more south or on those sides in the Gulf of Geneva, not in the Slovenian work. And here's where we're gonna have to do more. Greenpeace may also need to be organized. Greenpeace is a very militant organization, and maybe they'll have to do something so that it won't be built anymore. I'm afraid that some private person is going to go after some of his actions and things, and they're also waking up in Croatia, and, as we know, there's a lot of them with that war syndrome, one of which would probably be easy to take away from one of the zoos that are full in Croatia, and "burn" against the gas terminal, then we'll solve what's yet to be solved. In short, it's scary, it's dangerous, and we can't take it with our left hand. We will, of course, support the proposals in the Slovenian National Party, but we consider them to be quite prime, and we should demand more, we are ultimately equal members in the family of European nations, I hope at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group supports the widest debate on the planned construction of a gas terminal in the Gulf of Tržaška, not far from the Slovenian coast and less than a mile from the sea border, since it is an absolute need to protect national and national interests. In doing so, it is not crucial for our party to refer to the meeting of the national assembly on this subject, but to the content to answer the question of how we will solve this problem in order to protect our interests in all directions, because otherwise we can suffer long-term damage and permanent danger. It is not possible to avoid the fact that the planned construction of a gas terminal at sea has been discussed for at least half a year, that the population on both sides of the border is upset that it is an intention that would, at least theoretically, in the long term threaten the safety of the Gulf and its navigation, that such an object undoubtedly has a negative environmental impact that may reach our part of the sea. We can also conclude that the Republic of Italy has only notified Slovenia of this intention, but not invited it to identify the possible negative consequences, although it is bound by international agreements or certain conventions. More. From the media, it has been possible to see and hear that Italy will realize this intention, with only the consent of Slovenia. In such an atmosphere, the DeSUS Group estimates that we can and must discuss the matter in Parliament as well. All facts must be highlighted, all information obtained and decisions taken to protect the interest of Slovenia must be taken. The interest of Slovenia is not only to participate in the decision, but to make a decisive contribution and, by all means, to achieve a decision not to build a gas terminal if it is found that this could harm us today and in the future. He's carrying enough weight inside of him just to be possible and not just a direct threat. In doing so, let this debate, of course, be a support to the government and not an obstacle to its efforts. In view of the delegation's statement, DeSUS expects today's debate to go in the direction of unifying positions in what the state has to do to protect legitimate interest, and less in the direction of backward perceptions that cannot decisively influence the future. In doing so, our Group estimates that ignorant behaviour can first be attributed to the Italian State, which has informed us quite late, regardless of the fact that we have already learned most of the information on this subject before, informally and from the media. We also believe that the Ministry of Environment and Space has reacted properly and in a timely manner. With its note, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supported the first ministry more than a month later, which we do not think is good. While we understand the mode of restraint, sober head and caution, a similar way of dealing with problems in relations, such as our minority, has always proved ineffective without serious and even less timely and decisive rejection of certain positions, views and statements of Italian politicians, which tend to reviving the feelings of the affected Slovenians and are constantly awaiting our silence and making their decisions and statements without question. In this context, our parliamentary group rejects the determination of the facts of the responsibility of anyone, for we must not leave the good will of our neighbours, who think primarily of themselves, but not only more or less of the deliberate actions of our foreign policy, which can and must be sharp, if not otherwise, and must use and propose the widest range of possible actions and solutions, as our neighbours do when defending their interest. Our Group welcomes the fact that the Committee on the Environment and Space at its meeting on 26 May has reached a relatively high level of agreement on the adoption of urgent decisions to guide and support the follow-up of our country or government in terms of defence and protection of state interests, which oblige the enforcement authority to implement them. We are confident that after this meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will do its utmost in a consistent and timely manner to ensure that the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets does not occur. In this context, our support can be expected in most of the decisions, in particular the decisions of the Committee, as well as others, whose content and deliberations and decisions we assess are proposed for the best purpose in favour of our country and of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This is a topic that has been on the agenda of the Committee on the Environment and Space of the National Assembly three times in the last month, twice in an emergency session and once in a regular session. This means that the members of the committee were able to get a good look at the subject. In the light of the current energy needs, gas terminals are an extremely grateful topic for all parties, both for countries wishing to supply as reliable energy supplies as possible, for investors who see an opportunity for plasma capital and also for energy exporting countries. I would just like to remind you of the winter complication between Russia and Ukraine in which the European Union participated as a collateral observer. On the energy market, supply simply cannot meet demand, especially when it comes to long-term energy supply. And experts have been saying quite directly lately that we are at a time when all resources will have to be used, not only alternative, but also classical. And the oil and gas fields, which so far have been uninterested for investors due to relatively high exploitation costs, have already become the subject of purely normal exploitation. In this particular case, Italy is known as a large gas user with an extremely diluted gas infrastructure, whether natural gas or liquid petroleum gas. It is connected to the so-called Russian pipeline and has a built pipeline also from Algeria across the Mediterranean Sea and Sicily to "skull". Italy is also known that the environmental issue does not have a very high priority impact on or on investment facilities. It is probably also necessary in this light of the environmental protection deficit to look for the reasons for plans to build gas terminals in the northern Adriatic. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we share environmental concerns, especially in actions that may have cross-border impacts, while we are aware that the rules of good neighbourly relations and the scope of diplomatic communication must be taken into account when reacting. Overheating reactions are not always good and can do more harm than good. Therefore, in the SDS, we cannot agree with the claims that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has missed its responses and that it should act more sharply or that it has acted too hard. As early as the 6th urgent meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space on 18 April, government representatives presented the Government's activities towards Italian interlocutors. It must be acknowledged that during that period Italy was in the midst of pre-election activities, but this cannot be any excuse. The Committee fully supported the government's activities at that time and gave a clear signal that it must require a comprehensive documentation from the Republic of Italy on both terminals, taking into account the Convention on Cross-border Impacts. In our further steps, we must take into account the comprehensive issue of the North Adriatic. This is a security aspect in the fact that there has been an oil terminal in Trieste for several years, which supplies a refinery in German Ingolstat with a capacity of several million tonnes. The slightest accident could have catastrophic consequences. In addition, at the bottom of the North Adriatic there are several thousand tons of mercury, according to some serious data, about 30,000 tons. These are facts that are more than worrying and must be taken into account in the possible envisaged investment, especially at the so-called "offshore" terminal, that is that terminal at sea. However, what is particularly interesting is the development of reflections on the envisaged construction on the Italian side. Obviously, the planned construction was a carefully protected secret, because otherwise we cannot and do not know explain in the SDS the fact that directly affected municipalities on the Italian side were informed of the envisaged construction very late, namely, for the so-called offshore terminal only on 5 April 2006 and for the Earth Terminal, unfortunately not until 21 April 2006. Such an opinion applies irrespective of the fact that, on the Italian side, they have a different hierarchy of construction processes than ours, and perhaps we do not understand it at all. However, there is a fact that already on 11 March, more than a month before the Italian municipalities were even aware, the Minister of Environment and Space wrote to the Italian Minister on this issue, and again on 5 April, and on 18 March, the Minister of Environment and Space proposed to the Italian counterpart the conclusion of a special intergovernmental protocol which would define a way of modality and a time-frame for a common strategic assessment of the impacts of proposed and possible projects in the northern Adriatic and take a regional approach recommended and encouraged by the European Commission. On 28 March, the Foreign Minister met with the Governor of Furlania-Julia, Mr Illy, long before they were informed in the Italian municipalities. As reported in the market for Il Piccolo, there were quite a few negative reactions on the Italian side. Besides, Illy's supposed to calm down the Slovenian side. What does that mean, the participants themselves know? But surely our foreign minister represented the views of the Republic of Slovenia, because otherwise we could not have been displeased on the other hand. All of this and other activities took place before the Italian municipalities were even aware of the construction. So the government carried out procedures before they knew what was ahead of them directly. The decisions adopted by the Committee on Environment and Space will be supported in the SDS because we believe that our government representatives can be supported in negotiations with the Republic of Italy. From this point of view, such a meeting may also be a positive one. However, we cannot agree with the indications that the responses were late, slow or milky. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u19	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u20	Dear Mr. President. Honourable representatives of the government, citizens and citizens, representatives of civil society, fellow Members and colleagues. One of the key advantages and characteristics of Slovenia is its strong geographical position, complemented by landscape diversity and, above all, biodiversity. Moreover, Slovenia is behaving with one of the highest levels of biodiversity in the world, while the European Union and the world community are increasingly committed to preserving many endangered species and plants, as a major challenge to us, the question of increasing the diversity of energy supply and of major interventions in sensitive North Adriatic areas is being asked. In the last 20 years, the concept of sustainable social development has gained and consolidated the reputation of the most appropriate response to the need for the conservation and sound management of natural resources, for example, the Convention on Biological Diversity requires States Parties to incorporate all their programmes and plans into the principle of sustainable management of biodiversity. The sea, so to speak, is of particular importance to all of us, the origin of the first life on earth, if it is small and is already affected by the past, poor and unsustainable industrial activities and other human interventions. The Slovenian Sea, which is part of a particularly sensitive North Adriatic swimming pool, is one of the fundamental national interests and must become one of our common and coordinated efforts for the sustainable development of the entire region. The sea is primarily an integral part of nature and it is simply our moral duty to treat it with much respect and discretion, and we owe our craftsmen careful and responsible treatment of it. Therefore, and especially out of fear that the Slovenian government will not protect the interests of Slovenia, its environment and its inhabitants in due time in relation to the planned terminals for liquefied natural gas in the Gulf and its coastal area, we decided to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at the LDS. The government's actions so far, especially its slow response to the spilling of various information and many sources, have unfortunately not convinced us so far. It seems that the weakest member in the chain of responsible government authorities is the foreign ministry, where apparently they still feel there is nothing missing. The MLC continues to argue that the procedures in which Slovenia has the right and the possibility to be incorporated in accordance with international conventions and the European Union's common environmental acquis have not yet been initiated. Meanwhile, on the Italian side, criticisms and calls from potentially affected local communities have led to an extension of the time-limits, which have been running for some time and are intended to collect comments on the proposed plans for the construction of two terminals, one at sea, the Gulf of Markets and one at the mainland, in Žavlje, near Milj. That our previous fears and, above all, the warnings and calls that have been made by the LDS Club to the government have been devoted to everything since the media first reported the planned terminals, justified, witnessed the government's past meddle and unconvincing moves. For example, the Foreign Ministry sent the first official note verbale to Rome only a few days ago, on May 22nd, after we, together with the Social Democrats, made a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Let us recall that the first statements made by the Foreign Minister, as well as by the Prime Minister, have mainly tried to reassure the Slovenian public in the style that the terminal may not be built or, as Prime Minister Janez Janša has said, that the government has not recently had adequate interlocutors in Italy and that there have been parliamentary elections there. In the meantime, proceedings on the Italian side were under way, and the Slovenian government did not sufficiently protest at the time when it turned out that it did not have all the required and comprehensive documentation on both terminals. Moreover, the Prime Minister has already argued in early May that we have received all relevant information and information, which has proved to be unrealistic. Italy has not so far provided us with official comprehensive documentation on both planned interventions, which should be expected from the outset to have cross-border environmental impacts. In our view, the government has responded too late and unclearly to Italy's obvious attempts to leave Slovenia only partially informed for as long as possible, thus preventing its active and equivalent involvement in the procedures for assessing cross-border environmental impacts. For example, the Slovenian ambassador to Italy more than a month after the first terminal facts were detected, visited the Italian Ministry of Industry and for the first time officially inquired about the planned interventions in our immediate neighbourhood. How is that possible? Such irresponsibility is incomprehensible. How can it also be that the whole matter has not yet been met with the Italian Foreign Minister, but has been agreed to the talks at regional level? This is not a regional problem, but it is an important matter between the two sovereigns of the countries, which are also equal members of the EU, and therefore they are committed to respect for the common environmental acquis. However, if the Italian environmental legislation may be inconsistent with the Directives on the assessment of cross-border environmental impacts, the external ministry and its relevant services should, on the basis of clear and prescribed procedures, draw the attention of the European Commission and its competent institutions. The government has reduced Slovenia's ability to succeed, even this year's President of the Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Sea and Coastal Areas of the Mediterranean, with past indecisive measures that have nothing to do with good neighbourly relations, which our foreign minister is so fond of. The government's actions so far have in no way contributed to efforts to strengthen the multilateral cooperation of the North Adriatic countries, to help with the sustainable development of coastal areas, to protect the sea, to preserve biodiversity, to prevent accidents at sea and to improve maritime transport safety and to preserve the quality of living in the region in general. The marine and land-based liquefied natural gas terminal is not a simple and non-hazardous facility such as buildings or roads, but a large-scale facility capable of causing significant cross-border impacts. For the sea, we now know that if we built it, it would become the world's largest terminal of this kind. Slovenian Italian experts for the Italian study sent to Slovenia note that some of the data on which risk and risk assessments are based are obsolete, even to the wrong ones and that the third is even unreasonably omitted from the study. How, then, should we know what cross-border influences are at all? How should we believe such predictions if the Italian study states that the land terminal in Žavaje should not have dangerous effects at all? All of this is also about the credibility of the actors involved and the right of the public to information. In the LDS, we have never claimed that the terminal should not be built, as multidisciplinary and independent studies on cross-border environmental impacts have not yet been prepared. We also do not deny Italy the entirely legitimate right to develop its national energy supply on the network. We also believe that it is a sensible recommendation from the international energy agency that the EU increase the diversity of energy resources and reduce its dependence on individual energy exporters. However, the case of both terminals is in fact more than just a matter of intervention into space. It is a challenge to reach a broad transnational consensus on priority areas for development in the North Adriatic region. It is an opportunity for all of us to respond together to some fundamental developmental questions that mark the life of future generations at this time. Do we want to preserve the environment and natural resources? Do we want to develop the sustainability of economic activity? Do we see in tourism the way to more sustainable forms of development? Will we allow the narrow interests of capital to subordinate public interest? We will allow the Government's indecisive representation of Slovenia's interests of the natural environment and the sustainability plan to leave to the interests of multinationals, who are essentially following only economic interests. All of this must be answered together, so let us take advantage of today's opportunity and hold a substantive and thorough debate. We simply owe this to the sea, to the people around it, and above all to future generations, so that they can enjoy the gifts and beauties of our Adriatic. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u21	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Good afternoon, fellow Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! We have already warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the initial information on the planned construction of terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, which appeared in the Italian and later Slovenian media, that immediate action is needed to prevent irreparable damage in the natural environment, and in addition to this, the potential for very tragic consequences for the safety and life of residents and property in Slovenia due to possible accidents or terrorist attacks, as well as the direct damage that such a giant facility would have caused to the tourist economy, fisheries and maritime traffic in Slovenia. We are particularly aware of this fact, which is what we have also stated in our conclusions at the municipal councils of all three municipalities, and I stress all three municipalities. It is not true that any of the municipalities neglected the safety and environmental protection of their populations. It is with great satisfaction, however, that the intense pressure of the Slovenian civil movement of the public, the media and individual parties, in particular the opposition, has led to movements in the Slovenian government, so that it finally took the most urgent steps on the road to achieving our common goal, the safe and environmentally stable Slovenian Adriatic on Thursday. The fact is that only a month after the first information and the increasing pressure on the public has been addressed by letter to the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Italy. In the meantime, the most-called Foreign Ministry with mixed reactions and contacts at an entirely inappropriate level, such as the Foreign Minister's meeting with the President of the country of Furlania-Julia, has created the impression that our country is not aware of its rights in cases where our most fundamental rights have been violated in relation to the neighbouring country, and in particular that the most important members of our government do not know or want to properly assess the seriousness of the situation and are therefore reacting in an unacceptablely easy manner. This was also demonstrated at the first of the two extraordinary meetings of the Committee on the Environment and Space devoted to planning the construction of both terminals, when a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed that diplomacy had not yet been delayed, while saying that the procedure for the approval of land terminal documentation was much longer than for the maritime terminal. It is not unusual for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to know both terminals at the same time, and obtaining documentation for land is already so far away that the affected municipalities on the Italian side give opinions about it. I would like to say here that these are official opinions given by the municipalities in the process of obtaining consent to the prepared professional documentation, which I have little doubt that, for example, the Ministry of Environment and Space would ask the municipality or the municipalities for an opinion on certain spatial documentation, without having previously carried out an environmental impact assessment. I am sure that the municipalities of Milje, Trieste, Gradež, Tržič had the opportunity to see and review this documentation and also to see what the results of the prior environmental impact assessment are. Thus, we have no alternative but to question the claim that the environmental impact assessment process has not yet been initiated. The Group of Social Democrats believes that, despite the fact that the government has indeed reacted since 22 May, I am talking about the first government meeting at which it addressed this issue at all and has adopted individual conclusions which finally open the way for us to prevent the construction of both terminals, because we are convinced that both of them are directly threatening our security and, in particular, we can say that the economic development of the entire sub-region should be taken, however, by the first decision, which we have proposed to call an extraordinary meeting on the issue that the response of the Government was extremely late and, in the first steps, with the exception of the work done by the Ministry of Environment and Space, also very slow and underestimating in view of the problems or threats that could have been caused by the construction of these two terminals. We support the remaining three conclusions of the Committee, which summarise the necessary steps to be taken by the Slovenian Government and at the same time reflect the determination of our country to defend its right to a safe and clean environment, both for people and for all living beings in it, by means of arguments and confidence. I would also like to say that the first letter, which was written to Ricardo Illy on behalf of the work of the Primorski Members Club, which we have been elected in Slovenia itself, came at the end of March and that the civil initiative from Italy, Green Italy, WWF, as it is called, is called the World Wild Life Foundation, that we worked with us as soon as we attended the conference organised by the Koper Municipal Assembly after this letter. The fact is that it is not fair to say that the civil society movement, that the Green Italy or the Italian municipalities were waiting for us to react, on the contrary, they encouraged us and together we collected data because we were able, with at least some of the reasons, to tell us what is actually threatening us with such investments. And one more thing. Once again, I would like to stress what my colleague, Aurelio Juri, has said. In 1993, Slovenia planned to build a similar gas terminal for natural gas as in the Fat Rtič area. And Slovenia has not decided to do so because we have made clear to the inhabitants of this area that such a terminal is dangerous for this area and that it is harmful not only to us but also to our immediate neighbours. For this reason, I believe that we have so much more right to demand from our neighbours, namely, official authorities at national level, not at the country or municipality level, that they deviate from these plans and that they do not put profits ahead of security and environmental stability, which, of course, the European Green Paper on Energy does not only talk about providing alternative sources of gas and oil from other countries such as Russia, but mainly about reducing the amount of energy consumed per unit of product, on the household and so on, also on the market. It is said that we must first take those steps that reduce energy consumption and only then look for where we will drive gas to Europe and, of course, give the possibility to multinationals, we know what origins, or what they earn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to ministers with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. For today's meeting of the Extraordinary National Assembly, the Group of Members and Members proposed to address the point of response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the plan for the construction of liquefied natural gas terminals in the Gulf and its coastal area. On the Committee on the Environment and Space, we have encountered this subject three times. We have been very familiar with this matter at the meetings, both by the proposers, civil society, naturalists, local communities and representatives of the ministries of environment and space, the economy, foreign affairs and the Ministry of Transport. In particular, by the Ministry of the Environment and Space, we have been very thoroughly and thoroughly familiar with the entire chronology, including the dates of all the matters taken up by the Ministry. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that this is an important issue because it is about the construction of two gas terminals, one in the area of the Gulf of Tržaža and the other in Žavaje on the coast. There is an ever-increasing trend in the world and in Europe towards the construction of liquefied natural gas terminals, which is evaporated and suitable for transport through the pipeline network and commercially useful. The idea of building such terminals in the Adriatic Sea dates back decades. In the northern Adriatic Sea, ideas were developed at this time on projects for at least four such terminals. All these ideas or projects have appeared on numerous occasions mainly in the face of unstable energy conditions in the world and in Europe. Following this pattern and legality, the terminals under consideration also appeared. I will use a few words for those who are supposed to be standing in the middle of the Gulf of Markets in the immediate vicinity of the Slovenian territorial waters. No doubt it's a very large terminal. They're supposed to pump about 8 billion cubic metres of gas every year. The tankers, cooled to minus 162 degrees Fahrenheit [162 ° C], were to drive it to a terminal where it would be heated with seawater and then transported after 20 kilometres of underwater pipeline to the Italian pipeline. It is therefore not surprising that naturalists point to the high risk of pollution, both due to possible accidents, the dispersion of cleaning agents, the cooling of seawater as a possible introduction of alien organisms due to the transport of ships. Such an intervention would certainly greatly change the living conditions of the Gulf of Markets. Slovenia wants to develop high-level Friday tourism along its coast. With the possible construction of a gas terminal, we can forget about such plans. At the Ministry of Transport, experts found that ship transport would increase in the Gulf of Markets due to gas terminals so that the safety and flow of normal navigation would be compromised. This would significantly increase the risk of possible accidents. In this area, there is a memorandum on a separate navigation scheme which would make such a method of navigation very difficult by constructing a terminal. And last but not least, by building a gas terminal, we'd get an object that's ideal for possible terrorist attacks. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the northern Adriatic area needs to be defined as an area with special status, for which it is also necessary to define an acceptable comprehensive environmental burden due to energy activities in it. In Novi Slovenija we even believe that Slovenia should reach a special bilateral agreement with Italy on bilateral cooperation in the planning of interventions in the Gulf of Markets and its hinterland. Slovenia must cooperate in the process of strategic environmental impact assessment. The request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly states, inter alia, that the signatories of the call, as a wide-ranging interested public, are convinced that Janez Janša, Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Dr Dimitrij Rupel, should respond more decisively and in a timely manner and protect the interests of the inhabitants and the potentially affected environment in the region. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in their belief, has also not responded clearly enough and decisively to the obvious attempts of the Republic of Italy to leave Slovenia only partially informed for as long as possible and thereby prevent its active involvement in the process of assessing cross-border environmental impacts. In New Slovenia we are convinced that this is not the case. This finding is also confirmed in the reply or in the opinion of the Government, which it sent in response to the request for references to the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It is clear from the report on the work of the Interdepartmental Commission to establish views on the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf and its coastal area that individual ministries have consistently responded and taken appropriate measures regarding the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. However, we do not deny the possibility that an extraordinary meeting of the Environment and Space Committee has also contributed to an even greater government response. We also received a report on the findings of the cross-border impacts of the construction and operation of two gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area in the Friday session of the Environment and Space Committee. The report makes it clear that the cross-border impact of the projects envisaged exists. It can also be concluded from the expert analyses based on the methodology prepared by the investor himself, that these are projects of a nature such as European and international law specifically regulates them, both at the project level and at the project level. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that a number of uncertainties regarding the work of the government and individual ministries in the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška have been clarified and that it has been found that things have not gone as badly as proposed for today's meeting. We are convinced that the government or the ministry has been very successful in view of the fact that elections have taken place in Italy during this period, since our Government and ministers can only be interviewed by the Italian government and their ministers. Members and Members of New Slovenia support all the conclusions adopted at Friday's meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space. Most importantly, it seems to us that the National Assembly is proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to use all possible diplomatic and legal channels on the basis of which the Republic of Slovenia will be equally involved in the full assessment of environmental impacts due to the installation of gas terminals in the northern Adriatic area as part of the European natural gas distribution network. The Republic of Slovenia will endeavour to ensure that European energy policy on the introduction of liquefied natural gas into the European energy market is implemented in such a way as to ensure that the environmental interests of the Union are fully protected, especially those of the countries exposed to negative environmental impacts from neighbouring countries due to their geographical position. In the New Slovenia Group, we are really pleased that, as far as the main issues are concerned, the National Assembly is working together today. We are all aware of the great consequences such gas terminals can have. We differ today only in the assessment of what the government was doing in this case. Therefore, Members and Members of New Slovenia will support all the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft conclusions. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u26	Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Members! I wanted to react a little earlier, and I didn't think of anything special. I just wanted to point out that the material we received in the government, either after the intervention of the Foreign Ministry or after the direct links of the Environment Ministry, the Transport Ministry and so on, is significantly more than what we received or offered to assist Mr Jelinčič. So colleagues recognized some of the materials that we already know from Mr Jelinčič's discussion in a short time. In order to bring all the materials we have in the government to the National Assembly, we would need a heavier truck, since this material is huge. And, of course, in this case, it would be an impression, or to say an impression on Members, Members, the public would be even more effective. I therefore propose that we return to the debate on the arguments, the problems that arise and for which, as I find out from this debate, we are all equally sensitive, all equally sensitive to the environment and the problem of good relations with the neighbouring country or, if you wish, with the countries in this region. I think that today's debate will actually push these relations to a higher level and that we will be successful in the intentions that have been explained here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Podobnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much. In just a few segments, I'd like to complement Dr. Ruple. The vast majority of this documentation, which he offered to help, as Member Jelinčič said, is essentially technical documentation for both terminals and is also translated in accordance with the law on access to information of a public nature, which is available on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space. As stated, all documentation is essential to more than five files. Allow me just two more explanations. The first relates to the assessment made by Mrs Pecanova that it was not until 22 May that the government had made a substantive response to a number of issues related to the plans for the construction of two terminals. This information is also incorrect from the material received by Members. On 6 April this year, the government, when it addressed this issue and also established an interdepartmental working group and gave clear tasks, took note of a letter I forwarded to my then colleague Matteoli, in which I also made clear that this was a cross-border environmental impact, and that is why I set up this interdepartmental working group. The first government meeting on this subject was held on 6 April. There is also the issue of taking on the protection of the Mediterranean and of the fact that we are the Presidents of the Barcelona Conventions. Mr Slavinac, if I have understood it correctly, expressed his position in his statement on behalf of the LDS Group of Members that the Government's position does not contribute to the efforts of the contents of the Mediterranean protection of the sea or of the Barcelona Convention itself. It really doesn't hold. I've got some paperwork in front of me that says the opposite. Slovenia, as the President of the Barcelona Convention, has taken this project very seriously, which I have also proposed to the Prime Minister as a matter of fact, in order to make this area a particularly sensitive area of the northern Adriatic. I also have before me the first project to talk about the protection of the coastal area and there are also various workshops that have already been carried out with this project, and we also have a very important meeting between 4 and 6, as I said in the introduction, where we will talk about the sustainable approach and the active attitude of Slovenia in the protection of the North Adriatic as a very sensitive area of this environmentally sensitive part of the Mediterranean Sea. This commitment to the Barcelona Convention also speaks of the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and Space working very seriously and consistently towards the sustainable development of the Mediterranean Sea and, in particular, the Northern Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u30	Here you go. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Therefore, the reasons and reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting referred to by the proponents do not, in my view, have any real weight. To say that the government is late and has responded to the attempt to put gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets is, in my opinion, simply unfair, unfair in this sense because we are at Friday's meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space when presented to us by the ministries in essence all the chronology of what has been going on from the beginning to the present day with these terminals. I would not like to repeat the ministers who discussed it, so I will say that in my opinion the government has responsibly, professionally, followed the rules of diplomacy, and the government has tried to enforce or enforce the partnership approach and exploits the legal possibilities it has. It is so possible to begin by immediately dispeling the concerns that the government has not responded adequately to my view that it is an unacceptable project to place terminals in our immediate vicinity. I absolutely agree with the study of the Interdepartmental Commission led by the Mag. Starman, that the influential area of these terminals extends to our territorial waters, our territory and the task of the government is to insist on equal cooperation in dealing with cross-border environmental impacts. The findings are also clear from the communication or from the summary of the documentation received by the Ministry of Environment and Space regarding gas terminals. There are cross-border impacts due to traffic congestion, risk of accidents, the dispersion of cleaning agents, cold and so on, the introduction of foreign organisms, the transport of ships' effects on the microeconomics of fisheries and tourism and so on. Slovenia must become an equal partner and return the procedures for addressing cross-border environmental impacts to the beginning; to the beginning, where we can participate equally in the discussions themselves. We have already received assurances on the Committee on the Environment that the Government is driving these procedures through an international procedure and will use all legal possibilities to get the project back on track. And I believe them completely. The last measure, i.e. the note in which we call on the Government of the Republic of Italy to complete the procedure for the conclusion of a protocol between governments on consultation on cross-border impacts as soon as possible, is, in general, a genuine concern for national interests at sea and on the coast. I think today is a real time for us to step together, because I think there is no one among me, and even in Slovenia there are very few who would think differently, and we are trying to exercise our common interest. I fully trust the Government and I think that it has already proved itself to be active in this mandate in terms of protecting national interests, so I will support the Committee's conclusions, which are aimed at continuing the work on equal cooperation in addressing cross-border environmental impacts and, of course, also in the direction of protecting national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The reference to an extraordinary session, I believe, is unfounded in view of what we have read, what we have heard, what we have learned from government documents. But it can also be a well-intentioned move by the opposition and an additional concern for this issue, which is very difficult and important. Slovenia's demands are clear and firm, but to its partners, to neighbours who have to comply with Slovenia, who must take into account international treaties, agreements, and, last but not least, Slovenia is an EU member, we are an equal partner. We are also one of those who must be respected by these same neighbours in their international affairs, as regards this kind of story that we are talking about today. Good neighbourly relations are certainly necessary and necessary, we must preserve them, nurture them, because in the end it is an important topic which can be very controversial for the environment, very controversial for the population there, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and certainly for the Primors so much more than for those who are few inside. We know that the Slovenian sea is very small and that care for it must be so much more important, because these few kilometres of coast that we have, we must preserve as the most important thing. And this, I think, has been sufficiently said in three meetings of the Environment Committee in one way or another and that this last committee has also reached a very important consensus on both the position and the opposition on Friday. The fruit of these conclusions, as suggested by the mother's working body, is somehow the fruit of both and others, and I think that an important message also to the government is that this problem is being addressed even more seriously, even more responsibly, and that it is trying with all the experts involved in this story by lawyers, maritime experts, etc. I think that this Slovenian knowledge is very much and it is good, and this is what the government is serving, which I think is very good, and that it will nevertheless come to some reasonable decision of the Slovenian government, as well as of colleagues of the neighbouring country, at this important and sensitive moment for Slovenia. I am convinced that this extraordinary meeting today will also contribute in part to the further steps of the Slovenian government, the competent ministries and that all those decisions that the government has already adopted and which it supports will continue and actively contribute to further activities in the sense of this work, which the government has put forward. I hope that today, through the debate, we will get such additional positive ones and that together as a parliament - irrespective of the position - the opposition - tries to do what this Slovenia needs to do: equality, common ground to the government and the government, that it has additional support in Parliament for its steps forward for the good of the sea, for the well-being of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, for what you are also in the European Union of Slovenia, a truly young member, but nevertheless an equal member, deserves and belongs to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u33	Thank you. The word has magic. Franz Žnidaršič or excuse me, Saša Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u34	Respectable present. In his three-minute performance, in front of me, the speaker said that the opposition's move after the meeting was convened was premature. Within the next minute, he said what would be the contribution of this meeting. I fear that this will be a way of thinking, a way of thinking that changes from minute to minute, also a way of thinking of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially if we take into account the past and, above all, the past promises we have received from the promised country called the European Union. If we all remember together, during the period of Slovenia's accession to the European Union, it took place under two nominees. For the first time, it will be easier to resolve disputes, inter-neighbourly disputes or possible disputes. Because suddenly this will no longer be our conflicts, but the common problems will be the so-called European Union and the institutions of the European Union. Secondly, that no decision will be taken in relation to the injury to another country, therefore in this case the Republic of Slovenia. During this period, when we approached or believed such promises, it would not matter which governments or current or previous governments. But it is sad that today's government cannot take advantage of its full membership within the European Union. First grief. The second regret, according to my own assessment, is the lack of self-initiativeism of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You would expect that regardless of where the government of the Republic of Slovenia gets its information, whether the daily newspaper of the Italian media or the newspaper comes through any foreign, let's say secret channels. And definitely information goes through so-called secret channels. Through these channels, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has obtained information from the National Party today, which, according to our assessment, is much or is information of much greater weight than those with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has operated to date. In doing so, I would like to remind both ministers, or at this point only the competent Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik, that, of course, there are not five copies or five copies in front of you, because it has already turned out as if you were sharing at least your folder. It's actually a sequence of data from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. And if you want to get the whole picture, you have to study all five of them, one person, or one group, and you don't divide them. In short, it's not about copies. I would like to talk about the so-called lack of ownership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. One would expect, especially as a member of the National Assembly, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will come to the national assembly with such a very important question, but not because it would seek consensus on its decisions forward, but mainly because, not only to the domestic public, which I think is of course united, but especially to the international and foreign policy, it would prove that there are no contradictions or frictions within Slovenian politics and that we are united. Uniform in pursuing that goal - so we do not want to have a certain moment or an element that is, of course, called a terminal in a given situation, placed somewhere where it threatens or potentially threatens Slovenia on several levels. It is not only an environmental aspect, it is not only economic, it is not just economic, it is not important, it is transport, it is not tourism. The fact is that Slovenia, with its 40s and several kilometres of coastline, depends entirely on the sea. In a lot of ways. Therefore, this type of approach or the use of elements to solve this is, after our assessment, an oversteer. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should use more responsible responses to such a unilateral decision, and should accept it as an excuse as a government itself, i.e. that it is media news, or, on the other hand, that it is a so-called private lobby within the Italian State. So in other words, as they call it, an entrepreneurial initiative. I think it is the duty of Slovenian policy, both enforceable and legislative branches of government, to respond to the imminent danger. And this danger, hand to heart, was discussed by the motioners for an extraordinary meeting, as well as by both ministers in their basic implementations. It is therefore right to give this a weight, and more importantly today it would be important to determine how rescue and response are to the Italian State. According to our assessment, of course, Slovenia should make the most of its membership within the European Union, unfortunately not taking advantage of it, has not used it, at least according to our information and information provided by both ministers, so it has used its options from those basic principles of the European Union. Accordingly, the National Party will also not give an explanation, because I know that this is a particular time during today's debate, the amendment puts forward a complementary proposal for conclusions, where the Government should try to basically organise the matter with European Members and Members, in a transparent way, to show and exercise the rights of its work and the right under full membership within the European Union also within the framework of the European institutions. Today we have heard many times about both terminals, or the problem of the location of these terminals, especially the problem concerning the Republic of Slovenia, but very little has been heard about the answers, the responses of our country to this unilateral decision, and I will say, the countries of Italy. According to our assessment, Slovenia has witnessed too much blackmail by its neighbour Italy, both during the period of adaptation or accession to the European Union. As we know, at that time, we have repeatedly gone blind to our own public, that is, to our own citizens and citizens, that once we are full-fledged members, it will be totally different that we are vulnerable when Slovenia is not yet a full-fledged member. But in fact, we see that today, when we are in the moment of full membership, we are still as vulnerable as we used to be, that the reaction of the Slovenian government to this issue has been slow; that the response according to one information from the Slovenian government, the primary response, is only based on a reference to this extraordinary meeting. But when we are talking about a very large potential problem, such as the establishment of both terminals, Slovenia should also use those options that are at least as difficult as the Italian state's decision on this. At least think about the possible and if I can say, in a parable, putting a nuclear power plant on the Italian border - we all know how the story went when one of the Austrian politicians called about a nuclear power plant in Krk, how it suddenly became a problem for European institutions, because the environmental issue of nuclear power exceeded the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. And what was the response of the Slovenian government? Or if I'm exaggerating when I say in the nuke, if I were to at least store radioactive waste or, if I'm exaggerating here, at least store hazardous waste directly near Trieste. What would be the response of the Slovenian government then? According to the National Party, the Slovenian Government and the Slovenian policy would immediately give way to aspirations, threats and warnings by Italy. And that is why in the National Party we estimate that the answer, the right one, is what the intention deserves, or on the basis of the documentation we gave you and it is stored in red files, more than intention, at the moment it stopped. So, we are convinced that in this situation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should give you the unity expressed by Members and Members as legislative branches of government, the courage you should have in your own right, i.e. government representatives and, above all, more decisively, take a firmer stand against such intentions. In the National Party, as has been said, we will support the proposed conclusions, and we also assess that it would make sense for Members and Members of the National Assembly to also support the amendment to the complementary draft decision tabled by the National Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to the remaining Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The issue of terminals and government responses seems to me personally one of Slovenia's most important strategic issues, as well as an environmental issue. As far as environmental issues are concerned, I am particularly sensitive to this, for I estimate that a clean and healthy environment is one of those heritage that will be the only and certainly remain to our children and grandchildren. If, of course, we are discussing the response and the government's response, the government's response was, but it could be faster, it could be even more decisive. We Italians have never, and we have never told the Italians firmly. Not that we want to discuss and debate terminals, our message must be clear and loud: We do not talk about terminals in the Gulf of Markets because it is absolutely unacceptable for us and for our shores. You'll probably find it funny if I repeat that famous winged thing from some other time: "We can't, we can't give the Trieste." Why was Trieste so important to Slovenians in history? And with the determination that we have been defending this area at that time, or even more so, we must defend it today, because if we pollute it once and there will be no silence in the sailing sea, then there is no return, we must defend it decisively and also argumentatively out of respect for all 30,000 Slovenes and the Slovenians who have supported it and signed a petition against the construction of terminals. Why? Because they will be life-threatening, and because all their properties, which they have put together with hard work, will be valued at least half and more at the moment. That is why we expect from today's government and today's authorities that it is at least there, that it is at least there. Today, while I was driving and waiting in a colony in Šiška, I have heard that Russia and I do not have unresolved political issues and that today the minister seems to be more important in Russia, Moscow, than between us in this meeting, I find it simply unacceptable. He's taking another plane to Moscow today, and there's going to be an extensive delegation in Moscow and more than a minister in Moscow, and somewhere else after exotics, we'd need him today, this moment in this Parliament. Of course, the issue of the terminal is primarily an ecological issue, and I will not repeat all the things that my colleagues have already said before me, but the construction of the terminal means the end of Slovenian coastal fisheries and means the end of the shellfish activity in Slovenia. Something with which much of the Slovenians survived through the centuries or millenniums will end at the moment, for the very personality of mercury, if not already old, will be in these articles, which are simply too large, things are inappropriate and not useful for human consumption. I am not talking about what this means for the development of the Slovenian coast and tourism. Therefore, as far as neighbourly relations are concerned, I will only say simply and briefly, succinctly. A good neighbor doesn't do toilets on that part of the garden where he smells more like neighbors than he does. This is the key question, the Italians, if they put economic interest in the environment, they have their own sea and their shores much more so that they don't mess with us in our window and in front of our doors. Of course, I am also worried about that, but I support all those Primors and the coastal mayors who have detected and strongly resisted this danger, and I strongly oppose that lobby which is strong in Slovenia, but who would like to buy the population with some rent and some compensation. Simply put, I will say, rents, compensations and money - this is not a cure for diseases, against a devalued environment, against devalued damages, this is simply not the right way. There are things that are unacceptable. Today's session on this site is intended to say that we do not want to talk about the terminals, both of us, and such a unified response from the Slovenian Parliament should come out of this meeting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. With regard to the apparent fact that the Minister should be here, rather than traveling to Moscow, it is because I myself have called for today's meeting of the National Assembly. I must say here, too, about the further debate, that it will be perfectly clear. I wanted to call on her for Thursday because I knew that today a large delegation was sent to Moscow, an economic delegation. Mr Vizjak, as Minister of Economy, went to Moscow two days ago or two days ago, and I wanted to sign or set a date for Thursday. I asked the first person to sign the request, Mr Gantar, and he agreed, and then I received from the LDS Group a request that there should be a meeting today. And for that, Mr Saiovic, it is not the minister's fault that he cannot be present, but the circumstances are that there is a meeting today. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I welcome the convening of this meeting, because the problem of gas terminals is large and not only this thing in Italy, but it is a matter of both neighbouring countries. However, I cannot agree and support the arguments cited. And that is why I am afraid if we have any valid arguments, and there are also some of these quite "hair-attracted" things, that there will be a whole session or any government intervention, that they will be unserious or that they will lose quite a bit of focus. First of all, it would be for the implementation of Minister Rupl, who spoke about energy security or energy security. We all know what happened this year in Ukraine when the unreliable supply of Russian gas caused cold winter, economic stagnation and so on. And this is precisely why, due to improved energy supply, individual Member States of the European Union decide to seek energy supplies elsewhere in the world and thereby increase their reliability and will no longer depend on daily flies or daily policies in each country. This is the normal policy of every good master. They also supply raw materials, material and energy in factories, usually from several suppliers, if possible. Therefore, it is also good to think about connecting the system being built in Italy to the Russian gas pipeline. Of course, we cannot agree with the current projected situation of both terminals, because these two terminals are interfering with the agreements already concluded; perhaps the most important transport agreement in the Gulf is. I would also mention that the government's responses are quite appropriate, because in Italy they had elections and any diplomatic activity against the previous government would have sounded empty because they were in electoral work and if they had promised anything, they could have forgotten that. And I think that by electing a new government in Italy, we have got a new, more credible interlocutor in this pressing issue. So any very determined action is difficult to take. We don't have an aircraft carrier to send her there. Bavčar has also left and is more likely to be in the airport museum, if he can't swim, at least try to fly and so on. And more than a diplomatic note is really out of the question. I'm a little distracted by those arguments. For example, how the micro-organisms are described on the tanker, since any ship that comes into the bay will also bring or will not bring these organisms. And to be exactly the tanker that would bring gas is a little more infected than other ships - I don't believe it. Let's say it's the same dangerous tanker that's supposed to bring -- I hope it doesn't -- gas into the terminal, because it's just as dangerous to be infected with a variety of bacteria as, let's say, some ship that brings Korean cars to Koper. Then there was talk of a large quantity of mercury, which we can assume was evenly distributed in the mud at the bottom of the whole bay. Construction measures are expected to take place at a very small part of the bay, so if this mercury is actually activated, limited quantities would come. The question is whether it is mercury in elementary form or in some oxidative form. And if it's in the elementary room, it's much less dangerous than if it's in some oxidation state, then it can really create methyl mercury and similar dangerous organic substances that poison organisms and probably also threaten shellfish and so on. [[...]] I also want to know what the situation is in the starting ports, where tanker traffic is much more massive, we can estimate a few times more intense. Is there a dead sea out there, or is it there, I don't know what kind of chemicals they're cleaning systems with? These data are missing and we'd need them to compare. The technological solution itself is very questionable in this part. We know that about ten terminals are envisaged, and these two are just two of the many that the Italians intend to build, or Spanish owners and suppliers. These are all questions that I think the government and the relevant ministries will still be looking for answers and with diplomatic notes, because I think we are only now in the first phase of this problem and that the matter will begin to unfold more intensively in the coming months, when we really need to put forward strong arguments. And one of these is certainly a traffic policy in the Gulf. When it speaks of a safety zone about 3 kilometers, it already interferes with the Slovenian sea or interferes with the agreed transport policy when it interferes with the corridor through which empty ships return from the port of Cyprus and the port of commerce. So there's a whole bunch of open things, a whole bunch of these agreements that are threatened and violated, and so I think that if the government continues the procedures that it has already started, it will be able to get the right answers from the Italian side and I think there will still be a satisfactory agreement, or perhaps for other economic reasons, they will do it elsewhere, but they won't do it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Allow me a brief comment after Mr. Ziherl's performance. Here I could say very clearly, this process very important element, which is called the identification of cross-border environmental impacts, is crucial and therefore we should have a quality expert study prepared by this expert group in these three weeks. And on the basis of this section, we justifiably claim that these impacts are cross-border, and it is your performance that speaks of another essential specificity. Location in the Gulf of Markets, which is a semi-closed bay; why it is so sensitive and why in my opinion we will not succeed and we have already succeeded in declaring this part of the northern Adriatic "particularly sensitive area" that it is truly very, very sensitive - because it is very shallow and is not in the open. And one of the major differences from some other destinations is that this sea would be significantly deeper and that it would be a much more open sea. And if that were to happen, some influences would probably be different. And you also found, I can only comment on vectors, carriers of certain ships, and here is an important frequency of these. If the possibility of the introduction of foreign hazardous micro-organisms was greater, and the exit port, the starting port from which such a ship would come would be very important. And the fact is, in this case, there would be quite a few new ports of origin, which so far have very little use in communication with the Gulf of Markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u42	Thank you, President. I would first respond to some claims in the debate so far. Those who claim that the meeting was not justified but, at the same time, find that the Committee has adopted relatively good conclusions and found some consensus that was not before are, of course, demeaning themselves. Finally, the expectation that today's meeting will strengthen some of the decisions that will strengthen the government's mandate will also be acknowledged, and this is all in favour of the conclusion of today's meeting still being justified. Other information, I have to correct my colleague Bajc, czech, to say that we, Slovenia, have reacted as the Greens themselves in Italy. No, the Greens are among the first to react, but now they have their president, who has become the Minister of the Environment and will be the spokesperson for our Mr. Podobnik. This is a new situation to take advantage of. Among the first to react were the Italian side Greens, fishermen, mayors, and now the formal municipal councils gave their assessment - because of their knowledge of the facts. Look, I don't agree with those who don't object to the terminal, trying to avoid some kind of hatred for Italy. You know, when these terms are used, they're Lachs and so on -- you know, it doesn't lead anywhere. Italy is our partner, and it is not our enemy, and we need to find an agreement with our partner, with a member of the European Union. Of course, the offense goes to those circles that have disregarded our role and our partnership until now. But things, I hope, are being slowly repaired and if we are more determined, not with aircraft carriers, but with the appropriate notes - invitations sent or called to the Minister of the Environment to come to a meeting to sign a protocol on mutual information and consultation are steps in the right direction. I expected earlier a note protesting, due to the apparent interference of the project in its security area in our territorial waters, what has already been done, not only from the media, but from the first documentation is evident, and here we have acted lightly and cunningly, according to my assessment. Why we have this story of two terminals, it's clear. The European Union wants new resources, new suppliers, new routes, supplies of natural gas and to somehow address the excessive pressure of the Russian market. And we agree to that, but we must work together with Italy, with Croatia and we to find the safest locations for such supply. We're not gonna solve this with terminals; otherwise, we're gonna get things complicated. I am pleased, of course, with the professional evaluation that has already been given. Here I ask and ask the government how we can understand the recent visit to us by the President of Russian Lukoil, who is also reportedly engaged in the supply of oil and gas and who, in addition to investments in Nafto Lendava and in addition to working with Petrol, wants to create some logistics in Luka Koper. I call on the government not to be too hasty with promises, including the current ministers who are going to Moscow and who will certainly talk about economic cooperation, and not to be impressed by such an invitation. You know, we have ourselves found, Koper, Slovenian coast, Slovenian sea, also the Luka Koper area are areas, environmentally extremely sensitive, which do not tolerate more than the new unpleasant and unpleasant infrastructure, so we need to be very careful here. You know that the third pier, the minister of environment and space knows this well, the third pier, which has already been planned for 20 years and which is planned for the trans-shipment and handling of the clean transshipment, that is, the container terminal, creates a lot of tension in Cyprus in particular in Ankara, including on this issue. Where only to build new installations to import or extract gas or oil in Cyprus! I hope that my concerns are too much, and I will be happy if someone from the government who has been in talks with the Russian Motive has not settled that interest in some logistics in Luka Koper by Lukoil is not put in this direction, that some infrastructure that would mean the arrival of new tankers, either with oil or with gas to us, because it would be really questionable and inconsistent with what we are doing here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the government representatives, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. As we have already seen in the committees and commissions, and on the basis of newspaper articles and opinions, according to the system of'saids', we are also witnessing today in this National Assembly a panic reaction by some for something that is supposed to happen in that country, something that is not quite debated. Interestingly, though, such fears always come from the same angle, from the same circles. They accuse the government and the minister of not defending Slovenia against the will of a European country where democracy has significantly more traditions than we have, where the institution of civil society is significantly more developed, where the interests of fishermen have been defended in the past by weapons, where entrepreneurship is much stronger and better organised in both tourism and infrastructure activities than we have. I cite this comparison because I am sure that everyone listed would have resisted the objective of building terminals themselves if they had seen as much fear as we have heard, and of course without the possibility of looking into projects without some professional basis and discussions by experts from both sides of the border. The next thing I want to stress is the fact that Italy was before the elections. They had a government that wanted to continue the mandate and did not want to open up new issues, on the other hand, a very strong opposition that had recently taken over. It is only logical that the government did not have an accomplice to answer our questions with credibility and, in other words, our fears. I wonder who in this room or in front of cameras is willing to give up energy in everyday life, whether it's nuclear or gas, if it's already using it, and if it knows that the day-to-day needs are greater. Modern technology is still able to solve seemingly insurmountable problems today, so I am sure that they will also be in case, so that neither nature nor man will be endangered, nor the construction of a terminal is necessarily necessary. In the light of the reports of the governments and ministers and in the light of the above facts, I am convinced that everything has been done in a given situation and can be done at a time. The new Italian government, however, has in fact given the conditions for a sober and constructive agreement between the two neighbouring and, last but not least, the two countries that are both members of the European Union. And in the end. However, I am sure that bathing tourism will not have to be restructured into a slide, as we have already heard some indications today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u45	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u47	I'm sorry, I missed you. Ma'am has a replica. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u48	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u49	Mrs. Shirca, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We can have a replica of everyone present in this room because Mr Veršnik wondered who in this room is willing to give up electricity or energy, so I think I am entitled to a replica. Clearly, the answer is clear, and in this Chamber today we must ask ourselves something else who is willing to give up a potentially destroyed environment in the northern Adriatic, that is to say our national interests. And I would like to echo one more statement, Mr Veršnik, that this is an unserious initiative in a request based on newspaper articles and on the principle of'showing'. But wasn't this government aware of terminal building activities based on newspaper articles and of the credibility of the government that intervenes on such important two projects in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u51	Mrs Shirca, I think this is a debate and that the rules of procedure are not a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u52	I'll finish. What about the credibility of a government that learns from the newspaper articles what it should find out on its own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I was happy to wait for the replica. I am pleased that this National Assembly is united at least in such a debate. So we're all afraid of an ecological disaster that can happen in the northern part of the Adriatic if terminals are set up. However, I am concerned about some of the statements I have heard during the debate. And if I may first turn to you, Mr. Secretary, when you have looked at these five files, you have said, all of this together is technical documentation, most of which we find on the Ministry of Environment and Space's website. While your colleague, Mr. Foreign Minister, said that it was just an ideal phase, that terminals were only in an ideal phase. You're talking about technical documentation and he's talking about an ideal phase. Let's get some alignment on the statements. I took so much time myself to look at how many sites the MOP devotes to terminals on its website, and I have to tell you that I counted 188; in one folder goes about twice 500, says 1,000 shirts, 1,000 pages, sheets. It is said that you now have about 5,000 data, 5,000 pages of A4 terminal data. So talking about finding this on the ILO websites is a little bit unrealistic. However, I have to say or commend you, the ILO devotes 188 pages to terminals, while the MZZ totals 9, and this is worrying. The Ministry of Environment and Space - indeed, we can find some of the data that are also in these folders, they are really much more accurate here if you look at them, I believe that you have failed them so far. But thank you to the Ministry of Environment and Space. While the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is committed to this, I will now say exactly 9 pages, of which some written statements are made to the public by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that's worrying. All those who say how it is necessary to protect the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia - I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was the one who emphasized this in particular - I am a little afraid. In particular, when it was necessary to protect these national interests in another neighbouring country, called Austria, all remained on some notes and friendly relations, for which I do not hope or think about what kind of relations, I will say that we have friendly relations with this country, given that this country pushes us almost unforgivingly every single one of us or our Slovenes living across the border. Elections. Today I have heard several times from various speakers, the elections were those that were supposed to discourage or prevent Slovenia from making any more clear about the opposition to the construction of gas terminals and the possible ecological disaster. We didn't have an accomplice in Italy. The election time, the election campaign plus the election plus the announcement of the official results plus the formation of the government are some status quo in which the neighbouring country or anyone else can cause anything they want, because on the other hand we have no interlocutor. Such statements are mere meddlesome. Someone even said that this call for an extraordinary meeting took place because it created a kind of panic in Slovenia, what will happen to us with the construction of these terminals. I'm going to quote a macrobiologist who says, "Approximately three billion viruses are found in a liter of seawater. In one cubic metre of air moisture, three hundred times the number of these viruses. The sea will cool down by about five degrees Celsius, so I won't overdo it at a certain time. So not only do viruses have a global impact on the management of marine populations or ecosystems, but they also have an impact on time. Don't we have enough influences in our sea already? The one who says that nothing will happen in the Gulf of Markets or in our northern Adriatic is being carried away. Finally, if these terminals are built, we can say goodbye to tourism, goodbye to fishing, goodbye to biology, adieu to ecology and, last but not least, adieu to intelligence. It is therefore healthy, useful and in line with the protection of all our national interests, to prevent the construction of these terminals at all costs. When you speak, Slovenia has responded. She responded with a diplomatic letter — a request, a courtesy letter. Imagine, and I believe that now that I say this, Italy will respond, and it won't need to hear from the media. Let's get our radioactive waste from Krka to the border with Italy. Do you think they'll be waiting as long for a diplomatic note as we are, or a courtesy letter? I don't think so. I don't think anyone believes that they'll wait that long. Let's get to the technical documentation and put our radioactive waste on the Italian border. We'll see their response time. I think the response time will be significantly shorter than our response time. I don't think they're gonna find out from the media, but they're gonna find out today. Not like our government, which needs to get some information from the media. It's a disaster. I will be happy to support the proposed conclusions and oppose all my capacity to build terminals in the Gulf of Markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u55	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u57	Excuse me, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Secretary would like to answer, so I'm giving him my word in front of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. I would briefly answer Mr Zagorec. Maybe I was a little unclear in my previous performance. As you yourself have found on quite extensive pages, on our website is a summary of these materials. However, in accordance with the law on access to information of a public nature, the entire documentation is available in our ministry only to those who will be legitimised here so that they can be made aware of it. Our experts have reviewed your documentation and also based on these introductory numbers we estimate that we have been familiar with this documentation, that there is nothing new for us, but we will examine it in its entirety, so that we do not accidentally overlook any of this. With regard to the status of the documentation, I would like to remind you of page 3, where the government comments on the demands of the signatories of today's extraordinary meeting and says that the Government's efforts on this issue have so far been focused on the activities of obtaining technical and non-technical documentation, and now that we have the report of the Inter-ministerial Working Group, there is a professional basis or substantive analysis to prove the process legitimacy of the authorities to participate in the process, this is a very important issue of the process itself. I would like to tell you how our expert, expert group faced the material it had. The issue of the cross-border element was a key issue, and this was a lack of material, because it did not contain it, and so our experts, when preparing this expertise, came from, I would say, the procedure they themselves received in this material, and we adjusted the material and we extracted some of the elements exactly from this material, as we had been able to, so we used the concept of the material as we had been able to, and we have clearly identified some of the shortcomings of this material, and in another letter to the Foreign Minister, we have also warned again about these shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u59	Mr. Zagorac, do you have a replica? Please, don't argue and tell me where Mr. Secretary misunderstood you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. He misunderstood me at that stage when I said I doubt that the Ministry of Environment and Space experts were able to review 4846 pages of documentation, and I doubt that now. However, I believe that you have responded with a number of units in the Ministry to the Foreign Minister, which, of course, I regret to say, your warnings and your concerns do not only share in maintaining good neighbourly relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u61	Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u62	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, of course, we are talking about how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responded to plans to build terminals for liquefied natural gas in the Gulf of Markets, and not as much as this project, of course, is dangerous to the environment. This is certainly very clear to all of us. Of course, for Slovenia, it is even more dangerous that the government has seen the problem so carefree and perhaps even underestimated. Of course, I do not believe that the case began this February. At that time, it was so much done on the Italian side that it would certainly be possible to know what they were preparing, probably last year. Of course, it is not only the question of how the government responded, but also the question of what our diplomatic and other services in Italy are doing that we have learned so late and again from the media. What's actually going on? On the other hand, we listen to Minister Janez Podobnik, how much has been done at the Ministry of the Environment, and of course there is no reason not to believe what they have done, after all, things are documented, on the other hand, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is all in half, without any obligation to Italy, without charge to tell a little here, a little bit there, as if they were reading something from under the guest pen. So it's a little bit of everything and no consequences at all. The history of bilateral and multilateral relations is as much a teacher as any history at all, and it is quite unusual that in such cases Slovenia still behaves as if nothing has ever happened. There's a lot of questions in the back. Whose is this capital that wants to handle all this? How could he have kept so much time in the dark that he didn't know about it? Where were all our people working with the Italians, actually, that they didn't see it? Of course, we have some more questions, but whatever anyone I listened to here this morning, regardless of whether the government was protecting or not protecting it, it seemed that the government, especially the foreign ministry, had not reacted as it should, especially not in time and not intense enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u63	Mr Secretary of State Dr Cerar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much. As far as MZZ is concerned. Once again, I would like to say that as soon as this information was received, this was in February of this year when we were informed by our consulate in Trieste immediately responded with all seriousness and concern. There was no waiting, no delay, no even underestimation. In the series of interviews in Rome, Trieste and Ljubljana, including Trieste, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] place is an important factor in these matters. [[...]] In these interviews, we did check the information first. I admit, this information came not from the Italian side, but from our consulate in Trieste. So first we checked the information and then we tried to get an official position and then all the relevant documentation. In this context, when we bear the concerns of our side, our people have been clearly asked not only for information, but also for inclusion in the relevant procedures when it comes to the cross-border impacts of one or another project, and we have clearly, resolutely referred to international conventions, to European law. We did this orally in interviews as well as with notes. Once again, the Italian side has clearly learned that we will not allow the implementation of projects that would circumvent international regulations that would be harmful to our country or that would circumvent our interests. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received information, but we have not published it on the websites, but this documentation, which has already been mentioned several times today, has indeed been huge, we have immediately delivered to both relevant departments and the Interdepartmental Working Group for study and analysis. I think we can find that I am probably not the only one that the Interdepartmental Working Group has done a great deal of quality work with the participation of these external colleagues in record time. We all agree on a huge documentation, a relatively short period of time, but it seems to me that it has taken effort, because only such a study of this material has enabled the government to take further action. I repeat, the foreign ministry acted decisively, in cooperation with other authorities, with arguments, we did not act on the basis of analyses, and we tried to find answers and agreements on the basis of dialogue with the Italian side, in the spirit of good neighbourliness, which is a value that must probably be respected when protecting our interests and also when we are in the EU. Once again, it has been made clear that we will use all the means that international law makes available to us, diplomatic remedies. We hope that, now that the Italian Government has been formed, a solution is agreed, it is said to be of mutual benefit that there will be no need to interfere with some of the measures mentioned today within the EU, the Commission or even the European Court of Justice. We face the problem of energy both at our home and at the border. We share the northern Adriatic with the Italians and Croats. And to his protection, to the environment, people are to be held accountable. I think that these goals will be the easiest to achieve in agreement, and in this sense, I think we should also look for solutions in advance, i.e. by common means to reach solutions, to locations that will be acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u65	Mr. Aurelio Yuri, did you report for replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u66	If you'll excuse me for just a few minutes. My impression of our diplomacy is that it has been too long, three months since the information obtained through the media, through the network to the first note, verbal and later written, which predicts interest after the signing of the protocol. During that time, things were running smoothly in Italy. That is why I cautioned when we learned when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs found out that this was a project, not because of the publication in the newspapers, but when the documentation had already been obtained, which in its security area reaches our waters, we should react a little more decisively. I was talking about the protest note. Look, if my neighbor is building and installing a tanker on his lot and he's predicting an import route through my parcel and he doesn't ask me and I'll know how, I'll protest next door right now and I'll ask him to stop all preparations for this. And we'll figure out if he'll use my parcel to import gas into his tank. This is what's happening to this terminal. It has been a long time, I think, because if we react immediately, it is my assessment that we would get the same response immediately from the Italian side as we are getting right now. But I said earlier in the introduction, there's more money invested in this project, their power is greater. So the more time runs, the harder it is to stop it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u67	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The Italians say, "Piove, maledetto, gover!" Now that one of my colleagues accuses me of hostile or impatient speech, I will not literally translate everything, but I will simply say, "It rains what one government does." Somehow they do not hold a separate debate in this National Assembly. To some extent, it is possible to understand the opposition colleagues who want to charge this government with what has been done in previous mandates. To some extent, they can also be understood that they want to attribute responsibility to this government for what is not affected. It is completely incomprehensible and ridiculous to try to attribute responsibility to this government for something that has not yet happened and the question of whether it will ever happen. So much for the introduction, because at the convening of this extraordinary meeting, I thought that the opposition had a serious intention and a serious interest that we would all say together in the National Assembly at these events that Slovenia would take a firm and clear stand on the position that has been taken by individual ministers and the government as a whole so that it would not allow the influence of its interests without our consent. I think that we are all united in that this is a project that has cross-border impacts in all directions, through all documents. And if we are honest, and if we have not already read all of what we have received in the works today, but we have only listened carefully to what has been said and documented with individual dates, we will also be united in the fact that the actions of the government and ministries so far have been appropriate, sharp enough and appropriate. And that what is expected from today's debate in this national assembly is not politics, but a serious attitude towards a serious subject is the support that has been adopted so far. I must say that on this occasion I went to look at the magnetogram of the 9th session, when we discussed the law on the proclamation of the environmental protection zone and the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Slovenia, where not only do we find a decisive objection to this law but also to the debate which, according to my assessment, is beyond those interests that you have now signed as the main proponents of this extraordinary session. My colleague Yuri is already holding his hand up, not only I'm thinking about him, but there have been a number of such cases where I think there's been a strange relationship in dealing with individual issues. And if some thought that by adopting such a law we would not protect our interests any more, then I must tell you that even with such a meeting as you intended to do today, we would not be doing anything more to protect our interests. I am pleased that the Committee on the Environment and the Space of this National Assembly has taken these issues seriously and has adopted conclusions that, if they are also confirmed in the National Assembly, which is probably what we all want to be, will have an appropriate weight in supporting the Government's efforts to properly address this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u69	Mr. Gantar, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u70	Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u71	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u72	I wanted to talk to you about what has been said now, because I think things seem to have deteriorated ideologically and sharpened that it was right to try to figure out what the government has done, what it has not done, and I am still not quite clear what it has done today. I must say that I think that her action was inappropriate, I will talk about it later, probably during today's debate, but let's say that these are really projects that started at the formal level in the years when the previous government was gone. So you really can't accuse the previous government and I don't know why they would accuse us and what the point is in calling the meetings, because we haven't done anything about it in the previous term. I think that such arguments do not seem to hurt you that now that you are in power, when you have a coalition, when you rule, you must take responsibility for all good and also for all bad things, that you will have to take responsibility for some wrong move that may even appear to be good today, and tomorrow will be bad or vice versa. To request a meeting to influence something that the Slovenian government has no influence on, on the contrary, colleagues and colleagues, the Slovenian government has an influence here. If Slovenia, I have repeatedly stressed this, would not be a member of the European Union, it should rely solely on international conventions, these are mainly the Barcelona Convention and the Espoo Convention, and cases would take place in the final instance before the Court of Justice in The Hague and so on. Slovenia and Italy share in these matters the same legal framework, aquis communitair, in the environmental field, this is indeed a uniform environmental acquis and is directly and directly implemented by Slovenia if it is not implicit. Slovenia has an impact if it wants to have it, so it must be made clear that it wants to have an impact in the way it does, and that is why, at the professional, political and diplomatic level, I am stressing the diplomatic level, because I think it is neglected, it must do everything that is necessary! And our conviction for this meeting stems from the fact that Slovenia has to use these instruments and that we are charging it with responsibility for something that has not yet happened. Not just for something that hasn't happened yet, I hope for something that won't happen. But it will not happen if we, the real Slovenia, if the Italian public, the affected municipalities, the population, fishermen, the tourist industry around Gradez, react and say that such facilities as they are located, with such scope, are inappropriate and will use their legal and other legal means to either completely cancel or relocate or reduce environmental impacts or whatever. However, if we believe that we do not need to act on this until it happens, then of course it is clear that this extraordinary session too, everything we have done has been too much, let us wait for the terminals to happen and then we will act. It's probably not in our best interest. By stressing once again that the opposition has at present a number of other, more interesting ones that could cause problems to the government or alert or present other views, we are also doing so. This is actually about something else. This is something else; it is a matter of some truly vital interests of the environment and the people of Slovenia, to which we need to unify ourselves to a large extent. And I think that a partial step towards unification has been taken in the decision of the Committee on Environment and Space. However, it will be very difficult for all of you to convince me together that the claim that the environmental impact assessment in Italy has not yet started. That this process of legitimacy is appropriate and that, in fact, the environmental impact assessment has not started because we are not involved. Once again, I ask the government to reconsider this position. And that attitude is inappropriate, and we are likely to be able to say more about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u73	Mr. Aurelio Yuri, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u74	It's a replica of a colleague of Blacks. Look, I'm among those who voted not only against the declaration of the ecological zone, but also the fishing zones. What I said at the time and warned that it was instrumental for [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u75	[[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The text is given by the proposer, not by the SD, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u76	As a motioner, presidents. The announcement of that zone, I didn't want to associate the story with today's session, was instrumental. Evidence in Croatia that we are in control of some area in the northern Adriatic that we do not actually control because the border is not yet established with Croatia, and I am still waiting to be informed that our fishing or ecological inspector is sailing into that zone. And today we would also convene a meeting if we didn't have an ecological zone, it doesn't matter, because Italy has so far violated European directives and international conventions. And if we were to have an ecological zone or not, the terminal that would be built there should be worrying about us, and we should react. Thus, it is all unjustifiable to link this story to the then proclamation. Otherwise, in Italian, it's called a "piercing the governor's ladre", which means "the rain, the government is a thief", that we know exactly what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u78	Thank you for this explanation, but when I'm in position, I didn't dare tell myself directly that I won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u79	Accused of speaking hatefully or impatiently in this National Assembly. But I wanted to say this about Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u80	A replica of what?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u81	To Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u82	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u83	I wanted to say that I was just talking about what he said, but I was coming from the conclusions you proposed. You're the one who suggested [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u84	Excuse me, Mr. Chernach. I'm interrupting. Please, if you'll excuse me, I'm in charge of the session. Mr Gantar spoke on behalf of the applicants, Mr Chernač has a replica and has responded. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. So that's what I've been talking about, and this is what I've been drawing from the conclusions that you've proposed, and in these conclusions, the main intensities, the main emphasis on how the government has not reacted properly so far or has reacted too late, individual ministries have not responded well enough, which is not true. That's not true. We are hearing today that this response was in line with the standards that apply at this level, and my view is that today's session is not intended to talk about these things, but to adopt conclusions that will help all that has been done so far. If we're just going to sit here and do something on someone's initiative, not with the goal of building terminals in other frameworks, then that was not the right purpose, and I was talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u86	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! As a signatory to the request for today's meeting, I am pleased that we will be discussing this content, because by joining the European Union, we have become an integral part of the 25th and thus have taken on the responsibility to create and implement certain policies. I agree that in the field of energy policies, in the past period, very important substantive and specific matters have been happening with the European Union and solutions are being sought, in which Slovenia is certainly involved. That is why I think it is very important when we talk about these issues that the government actually has the principle of supporting all political structures or the widest Slovenian public for their conduct. Today it was heard in the explanation of two ministers by the government, in fact, two complementary content. First, I would like to comment on the content presented by the Foreign Minister Dr. Rupel, who actually confirms my introduction. It is therefore a matter of energy policy planning within the framework of the European Union and Slovenia to play an active role in this, it wants to play it, and it cannot stand by. At the same time, I would like to say that the Minister is also talking about the fact that European documents have been talking since 2003 about certain energy facilities being built in the northern Adriatic, that is, two gas terminals in the northern Adriatic. I think that this behaviour is enough in itself that the government should pay extreme attention to this issue, because the northern Adriatic is in the broadest sense a territory that is extremely important for Slovenia. And why was the text submitted by the opposition to convene this meeting? For a simple reason, because the media and the opposition have actually dictated the pace of the government's behaviour towards, in my opinion, friendly neighbours, a partner in the search for common solutions, this is from the Republic of Italy, in finding a solution to the location of the two gas terminals, of which today is also a word. The type of events has been happening somehow in the last two months, and the government has also been kind of dosing the pace in these activities, although I think it is not fast enough, because today it has also been said that the government is reacting properly and in a timely manner. Here I would like to point out that the media announcements were transmitted on 17 February, with our Embassy in Italy having a discussion with the Ministry of Production only on 16 March. And that the letters of the Minister of Environment and Space are happening and that the establishment of the Interdepartmental Commission is not until April 6th. These are the time dimensions, at least on some of the points that we are talking about today when we are discussing the government's response times. Of course, there is no way we can agree with what Dr. Rupel - I regret that he is not here today - in an interview with TV Slovenia - where he said it seemed kind of weird to talk about what was supposed to happen. And that the government can't be held responsible for what's supposed to happen, but that's weird twice. Of course, I cannot agree with this at all, so once again I am in favour of this debate today, where we need to highlight all the positive and negative elements surrounding the planning of the two gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. I certainly do not share here the opinion of both the foreign ministry and some of the debaters in front of me that it is a matter of creating some kind of panic. It is a matter of debate that in the North Adriatic it is possible to speak in the future or realistically expect two gas terminals to be built there. The debate in Parliament to highlight from a variety of perspectives whether the government follows the economic development strategy of Slovenia, where, in fact, it has a fundamental principle of sustainable development, which deals in an equivalent manner with 3 segments; economic, social and environmental protection. Of course, this is a very important question here, because there is no way I can accept the issue today when some Members tell us that we do not want to have adequate energy supplies. We all want to, but the question is, do we want to sacrifice one good at the expense of another? I think we need to look for the best solutions here and, of course, the best solutions are those that have the widest possible consensus, are backed by expert opinions and are partnered between different countries on the basis of international experience as well. Of course, there is no way that I can accept all the arguments on the Italian side in the pre-election period, and allowing time is actually a dead time, as far as the talks are concerned. On the one hand we hear this as one argument, on the other hand we hear another argument that Dr. Rupel is talking to the President of the Furlania-Julia Region, and this is another problem, because Slovenia has no provinces and here we are not interlocutors. Here we create dilemmas, or the government knows more than it wants to say. For if there is an energy problem in the European Union, energy supply is clear. Since 2003, has not the data been kept in mind that we are talking about the northern Adriatic as the one we are going to talk about in the future? Does the government want to take these procedures transparently, I think it is urgent and crucial? If we are characterized to prejudgment this in a strange way, it becomes even more justified for me, not oddly, but twice as justified. When I read all these documents, there are an enormous number of them, of course, I have also tried to find international comparisons for the objects we represent here, and we are talking about, on a global scale, exceptional environmental interventions, because the capacities themselves speak about them. The executions of the terminals themselves speak of this and add to this all the warnings made by the Interdepartmental Commission with experts in very short time, which they recognise and which Minister Podobnik also pointed out. It is also important to ask what is the interest on the other hand. And this interest, which raises the environmental issue as one of great importance, must also be put in the light of the economic interest behind it. The leadership of this province has only some economic contribution in companies that also have some economic interest here to ensure the implementation of this gas terminal. This should be borne in mind. However, when we are talking about environmental impact assessments, it is necessary to know that the Slovenian side has analysed this on the basis of documents it has received from the Italian side in the context of non-technical or technical documentation. Minister Podobnik warned that we are not satisfied with this data, so we are talking about things that we lack data on. We'd like to get more reliable data. We want to get reliable data for both terminals, both for the gas in the Gulf of Markets at sea, so-called "offshore" and the one on land, the "inshore" terminal. I'm afraid, also by Minister Ruple's statements, I'm going to read again his statement from the Odessa, which speaks of a terminal at sea. Here the question is whether the terminal at sea is placed in a different light at the time of Slovenian treatment as a terminal on land. I think we're talking equally about both types of terminals, or this one in the sea, or this one on land. When we talk about analysing cross-border impacts on the environment, I am pleased, Dr. similar, that you are defending them today, although it was possible to keep an eye on Members, that there are many open issues here that are not relevant. I think it is important to say that we are talking about the semi-closed Gulf of Markets, that we are talking about the very floating sea, that we are talking about an area which, with all its development in this area, is very burdensome. When we are looking for answers for cross-border environmental impact assessments, it is necessary to have a partnership here with the neighbouring Republic of Italy. It must not be presented to the Slovenian public here to cover up certain data. I am pleased that you insist that we obtain additional information on the basis of which we will make a relevant assessment. Because this study clearly says that the flaw is great, that some problems are not touched at all. However, if they touch certain cases, they are actually touched in very small form. Nowhere is there a pessimistic variant, nowhere is there a combination of effects, so nowhere is there a chain of events that could happen. And here are many questions concerning this particular area, the issue of mud, that is, the exploitation of water, the chlorination of the remaining chlorine, I would not list all of them, given that much has been warned here today. I'd like to draw attention to another element that I haven't tracked anywhere. We're talking liquefied natural gas, 90% and more it's methane. I'm also talking about if there are releases, if we're not talking about a fire or an explosion as the madness of this release, we're talking about it in combination with the Kyoto protocol. Slovenia has made a commitment to reduce its burden by 8% by 2012 according to the reference year. We are here in the opposite direction now and, Minister, you have a very intensive job to do when you have to make a strategy here, how we will meet this criterion. And here I would remind you that methane is from the point of view of the greenhouse gas balance compared to CO2 24 times with higher potential, i.e. 24 times. But when we talk about the quantities of this gas, we should point out that we're talking about 8 billion cubic meters and we're talking about 8 million tons. Now you are setting a parallel in the context of the emissions of Šostjanj and the entire consumption of petroleum derivatives and you can calculate the relationship between these two parameters. I have not observed this debate anywhere, I am only here exposing it as perhaps one of the important aspects that will also have to be taken into account. I'm not talking about the other elements that are here, I wouldn't underestimate the absorbed heavy metals on the mud at the bottom. We have been doing a series of analyses on the Drava River, because on Drava we observe the effect of sneezing all the side sleeves, what effect these muds will have on life in the Drava River, and we are very surprised when we talk about the absorption capabilities of these muds and when we talk not only about mercury, because when we talk about mercury, we know that there is even lead, karma, that we are not talking about other heavy metals that are not here, but there are not. Of course, I would like to see in this debate that the Italian side, which is assessing in its origin that there are no cross-border impacts on the environment, is not. And if we have such a partnership at the beginning, I don't think it's the right starting point. And this will have to be addressed intensively by the state of Slovenia and this is neither prestige nor deception nor anything else. But we are talking about if this construction takes place, of course, Slovenia will be able to have irreparable consequences here as part of its development strategy, that we are talking about our vital development potentials being severely affected. And that, of course, we want to work together here to form a partnership of environmental impacts, which already, due to proximity, says that they are cross-border. For it is very difficult to expect that this enormous flow of seawater will work in such a way that if it rises from the seabed, it will not reach beyond the sea boundary. Once again, I would like to point out that the measures need to address both terminals equally. So I would not like to have the feeling that if we reject the gas terminal in the sea, that somehow the route to the gas terminal on land could be that path that is already in advance in agreement with the views of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, it seems to me that today, when we discuss these issues in the National Assembly, the right way to find consensus in the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will have strong political support in its actions, is to respond to what, according to our assessment and in my personal opinion, has not been done in the last period, that the Republic of Slovenia will seek common solutions to energy issues within the European Union, to its energy issues, and that in doing so it will follow sustainable development as a fundamental concept of development in the Republic of Slovenia and that we will be together here, without feeling guilty from one another, who is trying to create panic, or someone sees in this regard the reasons that the debate is in itself unnecessary, so it seems to me that we will also need to adopt conclusions in support of future behaviour that we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u88	Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I would like to answer some questions from Members, Mr Germić, or to find that, in fact, everything you have proposed, the government has done or I have a specific question whether anyone here in the Chamber can tell me which process under the EspO Convention the Government has not implemented. Do you have any concrete suggestions? Over the weekend, we have studied all the procedures in force under the EspO Convention that are under way, and I can only conclude with you that we have applied all the procedures under the agreed procedure. If you have any suggestions, I am speaking for the EspO Convention, then I ask you to propose, even in your conclusions you have not proposed any additional solutions, no additional proposal. I would like to say another very important experience that we have gained when we have studied examples of good practices. When we analyzed and compared the projects of April terminals and looked at whether any case where the procedure, as you say, could have stopped the procedure. And then we found the following - that most of the time the Parties have always tried to agree on a significant cross-border impact and to carry out procedures. That's a key question. We have found that where environmentally-aware societies were concerned, there has always been an initiative in informing the country which planned an intervention; Italy has not informed us. The government is not responsible if the neighbouring country does not inform you. There was probably also talk about that weirdness that you were responsible for what someone else had to do. So if someone doesn't let you know, you're not responsible. However, there are also instances where, pursuant to Article 3 of this Convention, it may require this information from a Party to which there has been a significant impact. And we did that, too. And now I'd say the following. It was a question of how we acted in communication with the competent ministers. As an interesting thing to say - but this is not crucial because we said it was not prestige - all the proposed 14 decisions adopted by the government at the last meeting were proposed on the proposal of the Interdepartmental Group and then on my formal proposal a few days before the request for an extraordinary meeting was made. This means that the government had its own dynamics regardless of legitimate pressure from the opposition. And that means that she acted in a very responsible, consistent, knowledgeable manner and procedure within the framework of conventions and other international procedures. I also have here a letter following the last meeting of the government to the new Minister for the Environment. The letter is relatively long, is very well prepared and has a very important application in the process itself. The letter reads in one of the paragraphs: "I would like to ask the Italian side once again to send us complete and complete documentation on the basis of which Slovenia will be fully involved in all environmental impact assessment procedures in accordance with international and European law, in order to avoid unloved complications, in particular in respect of the deadlines for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the impact assessment procedures." So this has happened for the third time in this process. Now it's just a question of how we have implemented European procedures or how we have entered into this process when we are a member of the European Union. Maybe this is a misunderstanding and let me explain. European law obliges Member States to legislate common environmental standards into their legal order. These include, for example, regional planning. The Member State shall therefore be responsible to the Commission and to the other Member States of the European Union. However, when it comes to cross-border cooperation, and also under European Union law, the principles of international cooperation still apply. All that's needed and possible is a deal. That is why we have also proposed formally, in writing, the creation of a special protocol in order to reach such an agreement. And one more thing, the European Commission is watching to meet standards. And when it was said that we did not use the fact that we are members of the European Union, that is not true. It is also clear from chronology, for the first time, that we have already informed the European Commission that I have also sent a letter to my Italian colleague for information to the Commissioner responsible. Last but not least, we have also used some of the other connections and contacts we have in our mission in Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u90	Mr Gantar has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Podobnik asked whether someone should tell him, by reference to the EspO Convention, of the cross-border assessment of environmental impacts, in which procedures, in fact, have been abandoned or not done under this Convention. Or we can tell them something about it, if we're counting. Very simply, Mr Minister, in my best opinion, you have not initiated any proceedings against the Convention yet, and it is also impossible to judge whether you have done anything right or not. You have not mobilised the instruments of the Convention at all. For example, the Convention lays down in Article 7, paragraph 3, 'if the potentially affected State has not been informed of the intervention and considers that it could be a negative cross-border impact and cannot be agreed on, etc., 'it may be requested to specifically investigate the opinion of the Commission on the likelihood of harmful cross-border impacts on the environment'. So it's true, we can't tell you that you've used something wrong simply because you haven't applied the Espoo Conventions at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u92	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Your Honor! See, within the framework of the EspO Convention and within the framework of European law governing this area, there are several instruments that can follow each other. One of the tasks, including the inter-ministerial working groups, was to examine the procedural situation in which we are located and on the basis of the procedural situation in which we are proposing conclusions to the government. In the meantime, the Interdepartmental Working Group was not set up to work instead of ministries and the competent ministers have already acted on their own, irrespective of the conclusions of the Interdepartmental Group. The letter of the Minister of Environment and Space from 5 April already clearly serves the instruments of the EspO Convention in the light of the right afforded by this Convention to keep you informed for the first time. Secondly, the ESA Convention instrument shall be used, to the extent that the EspO Convention is summarised in both Directives, which regulate both the strategic assessment of environmental impacts and the project assessment of environmental impacts, because I explicitly anticipate - an agreement on how a country collectively assesss cross-border environmental impacts. Secondly, the next step, which was also proposed to the Government and the Government, by its conclusions at its previous meeting, also put it into effect and this is a warning, in accordance with diplomatic practice, that the Republic of Slovenia considers that it has not been informed in a timely and appropriate manner under the EspO Convention, by directives and by other documents, as we have already said today, both with regard to the safety of navigation and with regard to the SEVESO Directive or other documents relating to the safety of facilities. In short, all steps have been taken in combination with the EspO Convention and the Directive. As we all know, both the EspO Convention and both Directives form together an acquis. And the EspO Convention is broader, it also has its members outside the circle of European countries, while the Directive more strictly implements or standardises certain issues in this regard. However, when it comes to procedural cooperation, cross-border cooperation is mostly referred to as the EspO Convention. So that all steps so far to secure our position have been taken on the basis of these provisions of the legal order. Of course, as far as an agreement is possible, we have a certain practice that the Minister has already discussed, when, under what conditions is it considered that an agreement cannot be reached, how do you find the parties not to do so, and so on. Now, with the last letter, we have clearly recaptured the entire chronology of communications so far. Each of these documents has its own procedural weight and, on the basis of this, based on the response we will undoubtedly get, we can act on this response. In short, all roads are open, we have not missed any opportunities under international law, and there is no reason for us to initiate the process of appointing a commission at this stage because of the dispute in this regard. Since the government has already taken a step further in accordance with the rules of this law by finding that it has not been properly informed and properly informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u94	Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I do not intend to go into the controversy about the content of today's issue that has just taken place, but I would like to say a few words about the meaning of today's extraordinary session, and not least about these conclusions that we have before us. I must say that, at the announcement of today's extraordinary meeting, I was a little skeptical, especially because I was a little afraid that a session that was so important was actually talking about such an important matter that such a meeting could become its own purpose, so that it could, after all, be born into a cheap collection of political points. But I must say that when I listen to this debate today, in fact, this fear is superfluous. I can tell you that today's extraordinary session is going in the right direction. I am most pleased, however, that we have before us conclusions that are very important and I will be happy to confirm them. Finally, the fact that many of the opposition's proposals in these conclusions are also of the utmost importance by the proponents and, in fact, that is what is most important in solving this problem. The government's findings may be that it has not done enough to solve this problem to respond quickly enough to the planned construction of terminals in the Gulf of Markets. Personally, I do not agree with this, but I say that the government has reacted mainly in all these procedures, in a wise, not inadvertent way. I had previously heard from one of the speakers on the proposal that Italy and I should establish a partnership and partnership in dealing with this problem, which is not small - because we know that the planned construction of the gas terminal will certainly, as the profession has also found, have a cross-border impact - and that we will achieve some consensus in doing so. And I think we're on our way. Consensus, as wide as possible a consensus among all political parties who will be subject to expert opinions. I therefore appeal to all Members on this occasion that we, however, take these decisions and let us know that the National Assembly has been actively involved in this controversy, that we do not care, Members, what will happen to the planned construction of gas terminals, and as has already been said today, that we will not achieve anything today if we go and take matters in this direction in order to exercise some ideological focus here and perhaps even look for a culprit. The culprit is not here because the terminals in the Gulf of Markets are not yet there, and I think that at this point we still have everything in our hands, that the government still has everything in its hands, that it has very good control over this situation, and I am sure that, not least, that the government will do everything and protect Slovenia's interests in this area. Last but not least, it also protected Slovenia from influences that could be very dangerous to build this terminal for our Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u96	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that in these previous discussions, terminals are not in the Gulf. Of course they are not, and it is right that they are not, and this Parliament meeting should also be held to this end: that these terminals would not be here in our immediate vicinity. Unfortunately, the history of this place teaches us that it is the hardest thing to do with your neighbors, but it is very difficult to choose them, is a kind of tribute, so the call for cooperation and cooperation alone is also essential in the form of partnership with neighbours, as has already been mentioned here. As I have already said, I do not view this meeting as a criticism of the work of the current government, but I also consider its activity to be inadequate, too slow and too slow. Here the excuses, that the time of the elections is inappropriate, do not stand for some serious judgment, because this is a reaction that is the result of the action on the Italian side. At the same time, it is true that foreign policy is often changed by changing governments, including ministers, of course, as opposed to our own country of Slovenia, when government parties are changing and the foreign minister is usually the same. It is also not about what has been deliberately or unwittingly transmitted to our address, and it is our intention that our neighbours or anyone else should be threatened, but about the aircraft carrier and the fact that we do not have it. Yes, we do, but we had a train marked with a logo of one of the customers days ago, and it wouldn't be weird if the plane had been rented and painted. Security in the hierarchy - Mr Jerovšek, please, if you turn off for a moment - also with this I agree that it is almost all the time on "off" - security is in the hierarchy of values very high, if not at the very top. Warning against the threat of terrorism is also not entirely superfluous. Colleagues and colleagues introduced me to experiences, perhaps in 1973, when oil terminals burned in the valley near Trieste and could observe this story or this event, and it was not easy then, and it would be even less easy if this would happen again in the future, and the chances of this are certainly there. The importance of ecology in relation to tourism. The experience of the Shale Valley, where I come from, is that it is very difficult when people first get information that the individual environment is ecologically threatened, that it is degraded, then also by measures that have contributed to the fact that it is no longer so, very difficult to convince the public, it is very difficult for you to convince potential tourists to decide to visit this place. Otherwise, they like to return to this place later, but this information that the environment is suitable for tourism - tourism is also becoming one of the most important economic industries in Slovenia - it takes a lot of resources, effort and it is right to resist our space being marked as ecologically questionable due to the effects of this area, so where these terminals could stand. They also say that this should not be a national problem, that there should not be a credible parliament in Italy to deal with it, but of course there is a significant difference. A few thousand kilometres of coastline are Italians, we have a few ten kilometres, and for us this is certainly of national importance, and this debate also deserves its place in the National Assembly. Speaking of conclusions, let me say that I will support all conclusions, except for the first one which, with distinction, assesses the functioning of the government so far. But at the first, I have serious reservations. I am confident that this meeting will be worth all the efforts to preserve the ecologically undeniable area where this intervention would actually restrict it. Let me say that we have all, possibly Members and Members, including the government, the ministries, received a statement from the civil initiative Kras and their request that the Republic of Slovenia itself initiate procedures to strategically assess the future use of the North Adriatic, in which various development visions, including this construction of gas terminals, will be faced, while inviting the Republic of Italy and Croatia to draw up an assessment. It is right that we are on the move, and it is right to do everything we can to prevent this construction from taking place.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u98	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. I can agree with the reference to an extraordinary meeting, and I share the concerns of most speakers about the issue of gas terminals before me, and I can also agree that the issue is so important that an emergency meeting is required. However, I certainly do not agree with the arguments behind the convening of the extraordinary meeting, which is the inadequate and untimely response of the government in this case, because the reason for the appeal can only be a problem as such. There have also been many of these concerns on the Committee which have been drawn up by the citing parties, in fact, rejected and taken many conclusions in the large consensus, which also demonstrate this coordination of the Committee. I think that one hundred of these conclusions will be summed up for the conclusions that the National Assembly will take, I hope, yes. I do not think that there is a speech about the timing and inappropriateness of the government's response, which is also detracting from the report presented on the Committee and where all the correspondence that has been going on on this topic is visible. I can also be surprised by certain speakers from the proponents who have been talking for some time about Slovenia as a member of the EU being the one to use the EU legal framework and all its conventions, and I think the government has also reacted correctly. On the other hand, it speaks of the need to respond to newspaper articles and thus create a procedure that is certainly not in the spirit of the EU acquis. It is my opinion that the government has so far adequately protected our interests and that, in accordance with the conventions and the framework prescribed by the EU in such cases, it will also be able to protect them further.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u100	The word is from Dr. Matthew Lachovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dear Members. Today, on the one hand, I am glad that we all oppose the construction of gas terminals, they are undoubtedly very harmful, especially for such closed seas as the Adriatic Sea. But today we are also talking about the government's response to the problems we are facing. Some of you have said that this extraordinary meeting is irrelevant, but when we look at what the actual situation is, we see that at the Ministry of the Environment and Space they ask a little about the Italian Embassy and they tell them that this is all still in the stage of the entrepreneurial idea, says Minister Dimitrij Rupel, who, by the way, is this Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is the eternal minister, says somehow, "As far as I know, I think that this project in connection with gas terminals, especially those at sea, will hardly be realized." What kind of sentence is that, I ask you, is it going to be or not? And what exactly is the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs? The Minister for Foreign Affairs talks, not with the Italian Federal Government, talks with Ricardo Illy, the Prime Minister of the State, who is also 10% of the investor in a mixed Italian-Spanish company that is supposed to build a maritime terminal. Today, Minister Rupl is not here, he has gone to Russia, which, by the way, is the world's largest exporter of natural gas, and in short it is quite clear what his priorities are. So speaking here about this extraordinary meeting being unnecessary is particularly unserious and frivolous. As far as some other statements are concerned. Let's see what Mr. Foreign Minister for TV Slovenia has said. You can't even believe it. "It may even happen that it will not be this project, but some other project that will not be at sea, but it will be somewhere on land, and we will be surprised after all that there was a lot of noise for nothing." From this it is concluded that he obviously knows much more than he is willing to explain to the Slovenian public. Is this because he talks to someone who is at the same time a 10% investor in a mixed company that builds these maritime terminals instead of negotiating with a competent person on the other hand with a government in Rome, with a federal government that must be a partner in such talks and not a country government? Who is the right interlocutor now and who speaks the false or the half-truth or deceives the Slovenian public? To talk about the fact that it is only a business project, which is still in the stage of some reflection, is equally unrealistic, equally unrealistic, if we see that it is already clear that it is not a business idea at all, but a completely tangible project that is in the process of reaching consensus since October 2005. Today we are May 2006 - more than half a year has passed and some still say that it is some entrepreneurial projects and I do not know what. You know, it's very easy to perform like this. Then the enforcement policy applies and once these terminals are built, it will be too late. Only that sea terminal is worth 200 billion tolars. Once such a project begins to be built, the studies themselves are expensive, it is impossible to stop it. It is equally clear what an analysis of the costs and benefits of such a project is here. The benefits go to Italy and the costs and risks of Slovenia in particular. These terminals are literally located at our border, and in some neighbourly relations it is quite clear that you do not expect a neighbor to place a well at your border and enjoy all the negative effects of such projects. We can also expect the partner country in the European Union to take into account the basic rules of coexistence in the common space we call the European Union. This is simply not the case, and the Slovenian government, rather than react decisively, also appeals to the federal government with the relevant instruments available, is talking to the country government, which, as I said, is by chance also 10% of the investor in this project, which will bring great benefits to Italy, and only to us, as I said, great negative effects. There have been a lot of talk about these negative effects today, and I don't want to repeat them all, but the fact that tankers will sail, so many more tankers have sailed into Slovenian-Italian waters and have leaked ballast water here, all environmentalists know that these are very big negative effects. I do not see how anyone intends to develop a strategy for the development of the tourist destination of our coast, our Primorje, coastal regions, if such ecologically harmful experiments take place. This also means the introduction of foreign micro-organisms into our waters, and I don't know, that famous tourist password "Slovenia revives" will have completely new dimensions: "Come to the Slovenian Sea and you can also find some micro-organisms that you can't find anywhere else in European waters." In short, I mean, things are too serious to be dealt with just like that. These gas terminals, honourable Members and Members, will also have a very negative impact on the development of the Slovenian economy, Slovenian tourism. According to different estimates, if you take the method of satellite calculations, it brings between 9% and 11% of Slovenian gross domestic product and we all know what it means to build such gas terminals for Slovenian tourism and what the damage is. It will be very interesting to see these specific calculations. And to say in the language of the largest government party, so that everyone understands, these gas terminals will also have a negative impact on playing golf in Lipica. Thus, it is certainly worth using all diplomatic instruments and notes here in a timely manner. And I really advise Minister Rupl to turn to the right interlocutors not to negotiate with those who will also benefit from this project, but to start representing Slovenian national interests once and for all, as is necessary. But if he knows more, as he said about TV Slovenia, let him tell the entire Slovenian public and have him come to this national assembly and say so here, not that he is not here again today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u102	Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'd like to answer Mr. Lakhovnik and Dr. Gantar. In fact, as far as Slovenia wants to have an influence in the proceedings, I think we have been more than clear. Not only do we want to have the influence that we want to be involved, and we have done so both in the federal government in Rome and in Trieste. We did it diplomatically, with notes - by the way, about the note verbale, written note, because today I noticed some misunderstandings here - as with the letters of Minister Dr. Sponik. Therefore, it is difficult to understand the claim that we have not done so. As far as contact with the country government is concerned. The Land Government is an important factor in such matters and you will probably agree that such contacts are not excessive. But it is true that they have prevailed - and here I absolutely agree with the need and my answer is, contacts with representatives of the federal government, either in Rome or with representatives of the Italian state in Ljubljana. It was also said in previous discussions that we were hiding something. We're not hiding anything. All we somehow got from the Italian side - I admit, we didn't get at once, we needed more intervention, more intervention at different addresses, but what we got, what we claim is what they have, it's accessible and the summaries are also on the websites. However, we have made it clear to the Italian side what is missing, what is required or what we insist on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Mr. Jerovšek, you want a replica? How can you get a replica if you haven't discussed it? Let's stick to the rules of procedure! Once again, I have explained several times before, I think we will slowly learn what a replica is and when it can be approved: "Every debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate. [[replica]] ‘as far as this debate relates to its debate, if it considers that its debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted’. I can't give you a replica. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, we've been gathered here for quite a few hours by everyone with the same mind: the gas terminal - no! Obviously, there is only one issue between us: how much and who has done something for this "no". So I'm happy to explain this content, so how much it is and how much it hasn't done and how much it's done. You know, Slovenia decided to join the European Union in 90 percent, and you all know that. Since that day two years ago, you've all forgotten that there is also this country, whose component is both us and the Italians. Today it is established and it is well established that a national debate is under way; national debates linking Slovenians to Europe are taking place in the National Assembly. From here on, the National Assembly has no powers both bilaterally and multilaterally towards Europe. That's what we're talking about today. We are today, and we will express our national position: "No!" From now on, however, the government will have to make two levels of this decision, for the first time bilaterally with Italy, and for the second time, to convince me that it is not true at the European level. There was a meeting in Vienna, some not only going on a trip, but representatives of parliaments, where the main substantive theme was - let's just ask how many of them know, not only in Parliament, but also in the government - subsidiarity. I'm not gonna explain what this means. Everyone between us should know. Where Europe is above the country, we have talked about it. In small Reefs, because of the 2m coastal zone, Europe is above the country, the European law has been in force since 1.1.2007. Don't tell me the government doesn't know that the gas terminal can't stop unless the European Union, whose law is above all, says yes or says no. And what we have done to say to Europe, gentlemen, is you decide, you say yes or no. Because you're on top of us and they're on top of us. We can stand up here, Europe is above us, that's the first truth. On the other hand, if we are already in Europe, I propose that we start to wonder, on the one hand and on the other hand, how to live, work and what subsidiarity is and what laws apply. And secondly, most sadly, I personally called Luca Koper; it would have been the answer that as the largest company in the coastal and karst region, as the leading port and logistics representative of the system in the Adriatic, Luka Koper would have been invited to participate in the drafting of an opinion on the impact of terminal construction. But unfortunately, that's the official answer, that's not what happened. No one's contacted Luca Koper. Why would we have to? Because this country does not have a concessionaire who cleans pigs from the Slovenian sea. By the authority of this country, they're doing all the dirty work of Luke Koper, czech, because it's your fault that it is, and it's not true. This terminal has nothing to do with Luca, and when it's a mess, Luke's the only one who's qualified to clean it. No one talked to them, no one asked them for an opinion. I have a written certificate here. Port Koper estimates that without its cooperation and in the event of pollution related to gas terminals, the State of the Republic of Slovenia will literally burn down. Those are their words. And they themselves realize that it is sad that they have not been asked for an opinion, and they themselves say that the care for a clean environment is, however it is spoken of, always in the first place and we must keep our sea for the generations that come after us, although we are neglecting great interests.Thank you very much for listening to the two truths that no one has spoken about today, nice or ugly. [[...]] And Europe is the one who will say yes, and we can talk here for three more days.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u106	Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u107	Thank you, President. So, all the debate after these five hours shows the eligibility of the convening of this extraordinary meeting. I think that there is no one between us who has never realized this before, although the beginning has been, I must say, very strange, for me to be surprisingly diverse, this illustrated by some statements by, above all, coalition Members who obviously went very uncoordinated in this debate today. For example, Mr Janc spoke about the groundlessness of calling this meeting; unlike him, Mr Ziherl found that the meeting was necessary and, of course, also applied for the adoption of the conclusions. It was interesting, however, to discuss Mr Veršnik, who was talking about the opposition's panic reaction, with the evidence that we do not know and understand that in Italy, of course, democracy was far ahead and that it is much more quality and different than ours. In doing so, he probably meant Berlusconi's democracy, which the government would probably prefer to attract, but of course we are in a different form of democracy, and as long as so, of course, the extraordinary sessions will be a form of work in which the opposition will actually try to enforce, in the government to achieve what is thus the task of the opposition. Interestingly, he referred to Italy, one of the most obvious violators of environmental regulations. Speaking of these matters on a European scale, it is Italy, in addition to Spain, that seems to me to be the most obvious violator, and this in itself is a big enough signal that all that is currently going on in the Italian space should be aware of both in the coalition and in the opposition. I am not saying that in the beginning both ministers did not in some appropriate way constitute a move or a procedure that they both had to get to know well at this time since this was happening. In doing so, I attach to Mr Podobnik that he has, of course, been very professional in citing and describing all the procedures that are necessary in order to make an investment in this environment. At least, at my discretion, Minister Rupl, it seemed to me that he wanted to shed some light on the interpretations of those that do not fall under the topic that we are dealing with today. In some ways, he wanted to enlighten us by how energy shortages in Europe are one of the key areas in which the EU meets that Italy is, of course, one of those who has to solve its energy supply in this way. I am concerned that it does not speak of us, that we, of course, have to worry about our own energy policy, that we, in addition to classical energy sources, which are, in fact, dictated and conditioned by those countries that have enough energy, must also take care of alternative energy sources, that these alternative sources are also renewable resources. For illustration, only for information that this government has reduced by a renewable resource of 500 million tolls for subsidies in this budget. This shows that it is not aware of some moves in the energy field, and Minister Rupel is using this when he has to justify the reasons before us to calm down with unnecessary panic over this situation around terminals. With everything we're listening to today, I don't have to avoid the impression, but even though he wants to minimize these terms in the last two or three months. So, the fact is and this information exists that around these terminals began to speak in October last year in the Slovenian space and from October until, in fact, February, when the opposition, together with the civil initiative, began to question louder, publicly these matters, and the government just stepped in together and then began to grind with its mills, which should have been triggered by diplomacy in particular. I don't know where this diplomacy was, where this machine was, which has to monitor what's going on in a space where, of course, Slovenia also has its own diplomatic representations, where it has various sources of information. So whether she was using it for herself or she was blinding herself, whether she was blurring her will or not, we'll never know. The fact is, this information was too late. In fact, with the latest measures, these measures are those notes that were given literally on the date of the Committee's call or the meeting of the Committee on the Environment and three days before the meeting of the National Assembly, I think, somehow before the public, this delay in the proceedings that have taken place. Here there is an impression, at least he thinks diplomacy is primarily one that has not played its part, unlike the environment ministry, which I think is a slightly different approach. Here is our statement to Minister Rupl, the eternal foreign minister, that tourism diplomacy is preferable instead of dealing with serious life, vital issues that are destined for Primorsko, for Slovenia. Sometimes it feels like the minister is making bills with his travels, but he doesn't know, or he doesn't want to put bills to the Slovenians when he should be. In this case, when diplomacy is done this way, Slovenia shows that it is not a self-reliant member of the EU, but a smooth, smooth, milky type, how to get out of such a situation is unpleasant or how it would be possible to ignore the Slovenian public as much as possible and to get out of such a situation as it is in this case. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been given a mandate to replace staff to intervene in the economy, to write nice laws, to control the media. No, no, no. The government has been given a mandate to protect the interests of the people of Slovenia, in the case of what we are dealing with today, especially the inhabitants of Primorska, as well as other parts of Slovenia. For this reason, I repeat, the debate was necessary, the conclusions, such as they are well-intentioned, and therefore I think that any observation to the coalition that it is using for its political promotion does not hold, but is using these procedures to enforce what every government must care about, the interests of Slovenia to the visas of neighbours who sometimes do not behave according to these democratic rules of the game today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u108	Here you go, please. What would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u109	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u110	You didn't discuss it, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u111	He mentioned me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u112	He mentioned you. Will you discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u113	A replica of his performance, please. Mr Petek would like to thank you for this thorough analysis of today's debaters at an extraordinary session, because for all his expertise, I thank him for his views. But thank God that Members of the Coalition can think each one of us with their own head, even though we are in a coalition. You don't have that anymore? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but your forearm crossed out your name, and you discussed it before. The replica was justified. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow me to respond to my predecessor with his unheard-of challenge that visiting the Slovenian Foreign Minister in the Russian Federation is a tourist diplomacy. I'm sorry, anyone who doesn't know the meaning of the Russian Federation in the modern world doesn't know the meaning. Whoever doesn't know how strong Slovenia's economic cooperation with the Russian Federation is, how strongly Europe is dependent on the energy potentials of the Russian Federation, he has no idea; unfortunately, I have to say this. In fact, I find it tragic, but it shows a great indication of the party from which it comes that such a person is a party running for mayor of the second largest Slovenian city. Let me ask you something else. In the same direction, in the same tone, it was previously stated by a colleague of Lachovnik that Rupel would also go to talk with Russian energy representatives and "we all know what his priorities are". If someone claims that the energy supply of Slovenia should not be a priority and that it is not one of the first priorities of this country, of course it is also quite childish. And I don't blame my fellow Lachovnik. Even though he was an economic minister, although he did not know it, even though he was in his department, he is still very young, he is in the milk maturity stage and will mature. Now I am going to what we are actually discussing today. In fact, I must say that the initiative is legitimate and the opposition has not noticed that there has already been a discussion on these issues on two committees, the Environment Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee. If they were still in position today, what they claimed when they adopted the Rules of Procedure, that the committees were key, that everything else was irrelevant, then they would not have made such a reference. However, I say, the debate is already under way and it is right that it has been running, and it would also be on these committees and also in the National Assembly. I am of the opinion that such important matters concerning Primorske and the whole of Slovenia should also be discussed on the plenary. Of course, there is another reason why you triggered this matter at the convention. The main cause is the search for soft tissue on the government's body, how you might really get to some weak point of government. And all of this shows that it is the treatment of wounds due to the inefficiency of the opposition, which is facing complete loss in the area of the programme and political orientation. And for that reason, I also understand all your intentions and aspirations and experiments. And this complete loss is also reflected in the proposal for conclusions. See, this huge inflation in the proposal for conclusions, eleven of them wrote, happened to them that the two conclusions were essentially identical, four and nine, this was expanded by the fact that more inflation was this and they proposed two identical conclusions, "The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the National Assembly of all the activities of the Minister for Foreign Affairs" etc. This is exactly the same in both conclusions and all of it, out of all, there is one picture of this loss of the opposition. Now, seriously about these things. Yeah, it was a response to your frivolous attempts. Look, of course, with all the responsibility you have to do what's practically intertwined at the sea border itself. I am aware of the skills of Italian diplomacy and of the Italian authorities, who have always been extremely skilled in history, and it is no wonder that on their soil came the "Il principles", Maciavelly's "Government", which advises exactly as the previous Italian government has probably done, and of course the Italian government will work in the interest of Italy, and ours is correctly responding in the interest of Slovenia. I understand the concern that, on the basis of the indecisiveness of the previous government, you are also concerned about the future steps of the Slovenian government. I note that the government has reacted in a timely manner on this matter, the fact is that it has not been aware of certain intentions as it should have been, and it is also a fact that since it has learned of these intentions that it has gone into all proceedings. See, there is no doubt that such a project has cross-border environmental and other impacts. And not only will it have these influences, which are already known by the Gulf of Commerce, change and damage the tourist attractions of this area. And now, when I mention the Gulf of Markets, I am actually calling or pleading that no one else on the Slovenian side would make up anything like this primitive name of the Bay of Pirania was invented by the Croatian parties so that they would not start to mention the Gulf of Markets as the Bay of Koper. I think it's better if we just stick to it. And now, with regard to what this means and how we should negotiate, behave in this country, I agree with many speakers that the Italian side has not become sufficiently correct here, and I agree, and I am also pleased, in fact, with the statement by Mr Yuri or his statement that Italy has violated directives and international conventions relating to cross-border pollution. Why is that important? Mr Juri, who is an Italian national, is, as I understand it, often more benevolent to Italian decisions. He often defended what could not be defended, this time he made it clear that it was a breach of international obligations. There will certainly be further activities of the Slovenian Government in this regard and, in fact, there is a need to be decisive in this area and this includes today's meeting. The government will be stronger based on the conclusions I will support. It will have a wider backdrop, and I think this is a good effect today, because there are always forces, policies in Italy that continue to deny sovereign Slovenia in some way. I also allow the possibility that even at lower levels, even some experts, officials, when preparing this project, did not realize that they intended to build it on the very borders of the independent state of Slovenia. If they thought Yugoslavia had thousands of miles of coastline, she'd already take it. And when I mention these forces, I remember that former Foreign Minister De Michelis is and continues to stress or declares that recognition was a mistake. Also, a representative of the current government, Mr Fassino, said in the election campaign in Trieste that the funds of the fiduciary Luxembourg account would need to be sat down and agreed on how to use these funds. I mean, it should be stressed that for Slovenia, respect for these international conventions is 'peata-sunt servanda', as is for those conclusions that Italy has signed with us and with the European Union since it became a member of the EU. This must be respected, and this is now the task of the Slovenian government to represent the state interest as closely as possible. I'm sure she'll make it. If I did not believe that we could prevent the construction of a gas terminal at this location, right at the border, then of course I would suggest that Slovenia start preparing a project for its gas terminal immediately at the same distance, because if it is jammed, then let us also have economic benefits. And I believe that this will not happen and that, in fact, with today's session in some way, both Slovenian and Italian public, which has also been upset in this work, and actually opposes that we are sending a message that we do not agree with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u116	Mr. Milan Friday, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u117	Yes, I have to replicate to my colleague Jerovsk because he doesn't normally listen and only says what only he caught between the lines. I did not report to Minister Rupl leaving for Moscow today, although I also think that I could go a little later for the delegation, but I was talking, Mr Jerovšek, about his tourism diplomacy. So it is generally for a period of one and a half years, which is run by the foreign ministry in this new government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u118	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, everyone in this room. I myself support this meeting and the concern of all Slovenians that we somehow defend these terminals in our immediate neighbourhood. However, I think the government has reacted in time to react quickly enough. Of course, the government cannot react to something that is not happening and that is not happening. And the stock protests are usually not useful. Therefore, it is necessary to negotiate, negotiate, sometimes even protest, write notes, and not write war forecasts. Such an intervention as the Italian company, owned by a Spanish multinational, is violence against nature and is certainly an abuse of the people around Trieste, the Gulf of Markets and all of us here in Slovenia who oppose it. In a way, I'm surprised at the considerable amount of the Italian response; I don't know why there are more reasons; they might be accepting these gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets; perhaps the environmental awareness of the inhabitants of the region has died and the capital of multinationals has prevailed over people's interests, the care of nature or here in Slovenia we don't have enough information about their protests, about their responses. In Slovenia, we have witnessed an interesting paradox in recent years, talking about the fact that the country of Slovenia has good neighbourly relations, and we quietly find that we have relatively bad neighbours. With Croats, we have always some practice around the border in the Gulf of Piran. The Italians have not yet brought into the life of a protected minority law; we now have problems with gas terminals. The neighbouring Austria has been ignoring certain articles of the Austrian State Treaty for half a century and we are constantly dealing with the country's country chief Joerg Haider's policy. So we are witnessing good neighbourly relations and, on the other hand, the bad manners of our neighbours. I don't know, maybe this new paradigm of Mr Janez Drnovšk, his new life's maxim, which says, if we're good to others, is very likely that others will be good to us. Maybe. These days, I have heard about these gas terminals a technocratic cynic that says that we are more likely to fall and die in an air crash than is the probability of some ecological disaster due to these planned gas terminals. It may even hold, but the matter is not comparable. We get on the plane completely voluntarily, and these gas terminals, at least to the Slovenes, are being forced. Therefore, as I have already said, it is a great joy that the Slovenian government has reacted in a timely, smart way, that it does not agree with this game of multinationals, dictatorships of large countries and that there is no cow trade under the table. In the case of the former ruling elite, we can reach even at the time of the Communist Party, which is in communism, and in Slovenia we have dealt with the exclusive cow trade, that is, the sale of Slovenian national interest, the damage to the masses of people and the threat of the ecosystem. I'm thinking of building a hydroelectric Golica Cor Alps. It is a power plant located on the Austrian state territory of Koroška, Labod, and it has a large dam, which is 90 meters high, on the border itself with Slovenia. Some 20 million cubic feet [20 million cu m] of water is collected behind this anger. This is a power plant where there is an exclusive danger on the side of Slovenia and the majority benefit on the side of Austria. This is a power plant co-financed by Slovenia with 20% and the investment was worth about half a second billion shillings. However, although Slovenia has co-invested this investment, it has no ownership at this power plant. Slovenia has the right to purchase electricity from the Austrian power plant Kelag. This is the power plant that halved the Bistrica River’s watercourse and has an eccentric impact on the ecosystem in this river. This is a power plant where the Kelag power plant from Celovac has been consciously violating the agreed minimum of this river for a number of years and therefore causing significant environmental damage. At the expense of the breach of this flow, the Slovenian government claimed compensation of 20 million shillings years ago, after which they agreed on about 8 million shillings. This is the power plant where the sirens are placed on our Slovenian side, which would cover up when the flood wave is at risk. Sometimes the mermaids rolled for three days and people ran to the hills. This is a power plant, a colleague and a colleague, for whom a flood wave simulation showed that people under this anger, the first neighbors, have exactly 5 minutes of time to move away from the flood wave. The entire flood wave in the Drava River would be up in 14 minutes. The simulation showed that some 730 families and some 2,200 residents were at risk. This is the power plant voted against by the people of Muta, I think the first ecological referendum in Slovenia alone. Of course, the local referendum did not have international implications and the turbines on the Austrian side began to operate. I am pleased that Mr Bricelj is here, with whom we have discussed the power plant several times. He probably disagrees with some of my theories, but he's in government service. Why was I talking about this hydro power plant for a long time? Because it has to be a lesson for all the other projects that are going to be undertaken and that we are going to do on this side or that side. At these gas terminals, the situation may be even worse. If we have the 20% that Slovenia has invested in the Golica hydroelectric power plant, at least some little benefit here on the Slovenian side, then in the case of these gas terminals we would not have any benefit. We'd have nothing but damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u120	Mr. Geza Juban, you have the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Transposition and pronunciation are not decent things, nor in politics. The fact is, and this is an undeniable fact that the media were the first to inform and inform the Slovenian public and the Slovenian authorities of what will be done and done. And everything was calm and quiet at that moment. Nothing happened. Until the opposition reacted in this national assembly with parliamentary questions before. And then the government woke up and the government reacted, but in my opinion we all reacted wrongly because we did it, the real construction of these terminals, as our internal political issue, instead of all going to one side of these trenches and, like all of you do today, defending our national interests. This is also seen today in this debate when most, except for the rare exceptions of the coalition, act as the pianists of the government. I'm going to count the three flowers that were eloquent today, and they don't speak for what I said before. To say that we are discussing something that is not yet there or something that may not at all be said by our foreign minister also reminds me more of a TV show - Take it or leave it. Or another flower that the meeting is unjustifiable because when the opposition raises the issue in this national assembly, we sow some intolerance and unwarranted fears. Third, who even hopes to talk and discuss the construction of energy facilities in view of the energy crisis, etc., which exists in Europe. These are really cheap demagogue moves, which only excuse that today's meeting was, of course, convened in some way at the right time in the right place, and I think the government is, the ministries have prepared well for this meeting today. The Minister of the Environment himself said that the last three weeks had been intensively studying documents, professional materials, etc. That is why I am also asked one question from today's debate: Is Slovenia, the Slovenian authorities, the government for terminals or is it against the construction of terminals? The issue of coalition members does not convince me to do so or in an awkward way, as I said earlier, as pioneers you advocate the government that it has done everything possible to date. But you're all talking more about this non-contrary construction of these terminals. It is therefore my opinion that at this point Slovenia must say decisively and initiate procedures within the European Commission, especially because the Ministry of the Environment has only determined and ordered an expert opinion that it has not been carried out and that the cross-border impact has not been evaluated. So, one of the basic things that I think should be done with this sort of thing. In my view, it is in some way a conflict between capital and environmental issues which, in my view, must remain at the forefront and ahead of investment capital of such a nature. That's why I'm saying it should be our position at this point in time. It may be possible to help in the end, because both the government has problems and diplomacy, but it can only be used because we have seen that it has a great effect, that the government will also encourage the Skof Conference for Justice and Peace to give its opinion and position, as it has done on gambling and Hit, also on the construction of these terminals. Or maybe diplomacy could use Cardinal Rodet, who has good connections with capital owners in Italy, to at least temporarily "restraint" this investment until we agree within the European Commission and institutions, we agree on this intervention in nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u122	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! In my introduction, when I presented the position of the Slovenian People's Party, I stated that the legitimate right of the signatories to the initiative was to convene this extraordinary meeting, first the working body, and then the assembly. However, I would try, as all the debaters have done today, little genetics, what the government has done, which it has not done, from the first information in early February to today. And I'd like to remind my opposition colleagues a little bit about the first ideas and articles in the newspapers, once in April of the month, about a problem called gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. You will recall the headlines in the newspapers that an interpretation is being prepared against Minister Rupl and against Minister Podobnik. She had this idea, I don't know why, after a few days, the actual proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In listening to today's debate, Comrade Kumer, I would not say that we are on different shores. I hope that all the debaters - I think that we have been around 35 so far - are not the three that have discussed slightly differently, but we have mostly found that the government or individual ministries are one more, the other less, what they have done at this time, and I do not think that most of us have said that this meeting is unproductive or that it will not ultimately achieve that effect or effect or most of the effect that you expected the co-signants to convene this extraordinary session. Personally, I think that it is also possible to think in the opposition, which was expressed a long time ago, that something has to be done, that the reaction of individual ministries, and not least the government, may have been possible. And there's nothing wrong with that. I am sure, but here I am convinced that today's debate and after this debate will also adopt conclusions that the mother labour body has considered and accepted that there will be additional assistance or additional stimulus to the government or individual ministries to continue their efforts to protect the interests of the Slovenian country and also of Slovenian citizens. Whether it's a terminal or not, I don't think you or I can't say at this point. I expect, however, that the government will do its utmost to be, as a government, as a single ministry, an equal partner, taking into account all the treaties in force in this area. And if, in the end, this equality contributes to being somewhere in the northern Adriatic -- I think I've noticed somewhere in the report that something was once prescribed, in 2003, to build two terminals somewhere in the northern Adriatic -- that they might be somewhere. But I am sure, at the same time as so far as the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Transport and, last but not least, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been working to prevent terminals from being adversely affected for all the reasons that the report has also identified, and probably in all those "buklas" submitted by counterpart Jelinčič, and on the websites where all these projects are presented, particularly on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Therefore, at the end of this discussion, I will also support these proposals for conclusions and further stimulate the work of both ministries and governments in their efforts to protect the interests of this country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u124	Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. I am one of those who do not advocate such a way of resolving or fulfilling the wishes of some who, more or less from opposition tendencies, try to restore a topic because in my opinion, the government and the relevant ministries have acted properly and have also responded appropriately. Now only some can talk or talk about what we think we should do differently. The culprit is sought who is least responsible for this actual problem of placement in space, both environmental and transport, of such a large facility for such nature of activity. The opposition gentlemen are mainly trying to attack the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which is only a diplomatic aspect of regulating matters and seeking a path to assert the interests of the State of Slovenia. In fact, this is about the interest of two aspects, both the environment and the traffic. And in this sense, the government and the ministers responded perfectly. For me, this debate today is just a search for media presence and a waste of time. The fact that the ministries have prepared themselves well means that they have not done any other, even important, work at this time. That's one big loss. Some even call and try to get us into postwar times: The cane is ours, we go into attack. I would rather have heard if there was already such a debate that could have been properly carried out both in the media and in other forms of debate and probably also much more professional if it were to be said that the energy problem would have to be resolved, that it would sooner or later be necessary also through Slovenia or from the Croatian direction or from the eastern direction, and such environmental interventions and procedures for environmental interventions are taking place, to build substantially larger or increase pipeline capacity or to build new ones. The Italians could use these terminals to get closer to where there's a higher consumption, to the falling delta, for example. Why did they choose such a small "peanut" in such a narrow area of the sea, I don't know. There were reactions on the Italian side by environmentalists, even links to the Slovenian side. But the media's response isn't that sharp. Nor can a serious country take advantage of any form that is not normal. Why the National Assembly has to take some decisions on what this government is about, this ministry and ministers have already responded with their notes. Why do we decide that it should be the start of the placement procedure if such a note and such an invitation were given to the Italian side? This may show that even some of our weaknesses and a serious state do not work in this way. That's what I think. There's no comparison, but there's going to be a lot of problems like this. Similar, but really not comparable, the story or the complication was after the reactions, but it is not comparable, but I cite it because colleague Miro Friday also cited Golica. Much more problematic was the placement or purpose of some to force Slovenia to decommission a nuclear power plant in Krk. It's not comparable, or even comparable. I think that Italy's desire to address energy needs has many more alternatives. In the end, a comprehensive process of putting into space and all other impacts must be respected. It's not just traffic, it's environmental, it's still kind of. They have a significant impact on the overall management of the sea, as it interferes with its environment in such a serious way that the Italian Government or the Italian economy can also suggest other solutions that are probably more appropriate. Increase the capacity of gas pipelines across Italian territory, whose capacity could also benefit Slovenia, in order to supply energy from several alternative areas. After all, to mix the debate in this National Assembly, if diplomatic representatives of Italy listen, and to compare this impact of this terminal on the growth of grass on the golf course in Lipica, while forgetting that these comrades or gentlemen also played tennis and also tennis are likely to have some influence, this is beyond any level of discussion in this National Assembly. That's why I don't think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u126	Mr. Davorin Targeton, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! All the complications related to the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška or Žavaje are, in my opinion, another of the long range of slides or foreign political fiascos of the guest pen. Of course, it is right to warn and ask ourselves about certain facts that are absorbing and clear. I ask in the first place why the Slovenian Ambassador to Rome did not take the first step towards the Italian authorities until a month after information on the construction of gas terminals was published in the newspaper. I further wonder why it had to be three months before the foreign ministry gave a diplomatic note, better said it gave two, one from May 22nd one on May 25th. And that after the opposition, which first warned, woke up, of course, for the media, and when the story began to get complicated, in fact, to wake up in some way. My assessment is that this is happening to us mainly because our foreign policy is somehow too flying, it has jumped too high. Citizens, after all, and we Members, too, as opposition Members, expect diplomacy to put us in place, put us in a significant position in the association we belong to, the European Union, and primarily build on good-neighbourly relations and regulate good-neighbourly relations with neighbours. Of course, somewhere else, it will also be an important entity, a factor in international policy. But I have a feeling that this foreign policy is quite the opposite. Some are talking about diplomatic tourism, and I wonder why it is more important for our foreign minister to go to Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan to visit Atana, Tashkent, Bishkek, Dushambe to talk to his colleague Nursalton Nazarbayev, this is the President of Kazakhstan, and to talk to Ismail Karimov, let's say in Uzbekistan, that we have problems all over the house. I know he had obligations regarding Ovs, but citizens expect to solve the problems that are closest to us, because in the end what comes to Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, we do not know whether it is worse or better. And that's how it happens. Minister Rupel once, when he was hearing, he, you know, gave more customers through, I think he was still with us, and when he was hearing, I asked him about minority issues, he somehow answered me so that of course there were also minorities, I think it was Slovenian in Italy and Italian in us, but you know, foreign policy, these are continents, these are oceans. And that's a reflection of our policy. They're continents, they're oceans, they're Kyrgyzstans, and we're running out of homes. And that's it. And what is it? I say that this is mainly because this diplomacy has become sublime, arrogant and in some ways we are also carrying egotistical patterns. And that's not just about diplomacy. It'd be good to get down on the ground a little bit. I could even compare it, if I could compare it, given that we are now discussing some problem that is in the Gulf of Markets and comes from that environment, with market policy. Because of his historical relations, this remains closed to the village, to the back of the pride and insensitive. That is why we have much better cooperation there at the border than with Trieste itself, with all the surrounding municipalities of Western and Eastern Crassus, the Italian estate, Gorica and other municipalities in the Furlania-Julia landscape. And I have to say that this cooperation is quite something, and I'm surprised that the country is not following it and is dripping. And just as this marketplace has somehow remained closed to itself for historical reasons, let us hope that it will open up and that we will cooperate better, so for other reasons, this superiority, egoism Slovenian diplomacy and foreign policy have forgotten its citizens. And the problems at our borders are multiplying, we are talking about a gas terminal in Italy, an unrealised law for Slovenians in Italy, this is also a result of market policy, because the law is adopted and valid and in local communities that have an important role, it has come true, of course it is not in Trieste, because it is very symptomatic. Of course, Minister Rupel also reacts with regard to bilingual tables in Koroška, so that minorities are forced into some kind of internationalisation in Brussels. And we in Primorsk also have a very strong feeling that we are left out, that this policy deals too much with heights and that it is not in the function of people as it should be. But I said she's egotistical, too. And that's exactly what it proves because it doesn't hear the voice of people who have specific problems at the border themselves. Our diplomacy, our country is 15 years old, Italian is much older, much more crafty, much more woven. I'm afraid she'll just bring us around if we're not decent for more than 15 years. I wonder what's wrong with this policy of ours. Or we can do nothing more than watch on television how Joras falls into Dragonjoy, how some politicians come to help him by falling over the fence. Is that all we can do? Of course, they call the press first to record, and they put themselves in the role of the victim. Old tricks, I'd say. And false politics isn't as reckless as I'm going to tell you another case. I am reading Primorske novice, 11.5.2006, Minister Podobnik and Bozič were at the presentation of future highway routes between Trieste and River to shorten. And the most important emphasis was, the neighbors have no influence. The most important thing to say is that we will take into account the professional basis, the interest of the state of Slovenia and the local communities, and that neither Croatian nor Italians will have any of this and that their interest is of no importance to us. Look, that sounds good, we could even share an opinion, but it's not blue. If you want Italy to take us into account now, you'd say what you're running, otherwise the cases aren't the same, we know that, but how you're acting, it's not wise, it's true for 15 years or even less. I'd say otherwise. I would say, we will take into account the professional basis, we will take into account the national interest, we will take into account the local communities and we will also take into account the neighbours with whom we connect, while we expect neighbours to take our interests into account as well. That seems a lot wiser and a lot more mature. And given that we are in a joint association, we will achieve more in this way. This is also expected in the case of these gas terminals. I don't think it's necessary to say that the first media were, that there was a second opposition, and that the government, because of what reasons, had indisputably fallen asleep and had a late reaction. We all share the interest in protecting the interests of the State of Slovenia, especially the Primorske and the population, so that this terminal can be placed elsewhere - we have heard how many Italians have space - and above all not under our noses. We'll support that, too. And the second time I ask you, be not a little bit, much more skilled, because this time you certainly weren't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u128	Mr Secretary of State Dr Cerar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word, two about, as was said, the external political fiasco of the guest pen or the state of our diplomacy. I think these claims are absolutely unacceptable. I've already pointed out twice today that our reaction was instantaneous, there was no waiting. And these notes came from a series of interviews, not only with representatives of the Foreign Ministry of Italy, the Ministry of Production, the Ministry of Environment, but also from the moment - you can say, after it was clear that there would be an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I argue that the note came at a time when we had the first, indeed preliminary, report from the Interdepartmental Working Group when it was clear that some of our oral efforts did not bring complete documentation. And at that moment, we arrived the day with these diplomatic notes. As for diplomatic tourism, you know, diplomacy also implies travel, including meetings not only at home, but also abroad. Various stops were mentioned. Thanks to our engagement in Kyrgyzstan, Kyrgyzstan, Eastern Europe, Ukraine, our last year's presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation has been seen as a success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u130	Please, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I would just like to respond briefly to Mr Terchoon's performance, as an example of misbehaviour, when he also cited the search or state-level road map between Postojno - Divaca and Jelshanami. What's the difference? The difference is that, of course, this project does not have any cross-border environmental impacts in itself. Of course, coordination is sought when it comes to the question of corridors, road corridors. This is a completely different level than the level we're talking about here today. The point of the problem is that the neighbouring country is planning to build a facility in its territory, which has de facto, also on the basis of the current expertise, I would say, finding a cross-border impact on the environment. This procedure protects conventions and European directives that, when so, the State has a duty to inform you and you have the right to be involved in such procedures. There's that difference. I wouldn't trade that way, and we'll get in touch with you here. Matters relating to corridors have a completely different status in international terms as well as the JE process itself, which is linked to cross-border environmental impacts. I would like to take advantage of my performance so that I may also answer the very clear question put by Mr Kumer earlier. If you allow it, the question was, what is the government's attitude towards these projects? I have to be very clear here, of course. The decision adopted by the Government reads: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the construction and operation of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area would have significant cross-border impacts in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia." And then he lists them. First, it points out that it would have an impact on the international contract for the approval of the maritime transport regime, then notes that from a general safety point of view it would be a risk to the Slovenian coast. It then notes that, from an environmental point of view, the adverse effects on the aquatic environment of the market Gulf, toxic cleaning agents dispersion, etc. It shall then identify the adverse effects on biodiversity and also at the conclusion from an economic special point of view as a result of the negative effects both on the development of tourism and also on fisheries; and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] on the Slovenian coast. [[...]] From this conclusion, the government then draws conclusions on the consistency it wants in the context of procedures that are of course in place so that such construction does not take place. Here, the government has also stated its position consistently and clearly in the context of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u132	Please, Mr. Davorin Targeton. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, this intervention regarding my debate was not necessary at all. I've told you before, it's different cases. This case, which I have mentioned, has no cross-border influence, and it has. But both projects are such that they can have an interest on both sides, which is undeniable. Above all, I have said this because of the unwiseness of our position vis-à-vis Italy in a particular case. Since I'm telling my neighbor, I'm not gonna take that into account when you're in the same situation, it's nice to say, stupid if not worse. However, when we are already on this project, Mr. Minister, Croatia already has a highway at the border, Italy has practically, and we are also trading, just to add, I hope that you will speed up the procedures, because we happen to have them pass Slovenia to Slovenia and then they go after our regionals to Italy and do not pay any tolls and do not buy anything or petrol. We wanted to market something. We end up killing our own car. This is a typical case, and I hope that's not the point, but that you're going to do something to get rid of it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u134	Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I am concerned about the silent attitude and response of the Slovenian government to the Italian plans for the construction of terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška. Today, Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel has already been criticized for his absence. Although he had his performance and then flew with Prime Minister Janez Janša to Russia. I am even more concerned about the absence of the Prime Minister than the absence of the Foreign Minister. In this case, it is not only a matter that touches the environment and foreign affairs portfolios, but it is a complex, inter-ministerial and government matter or, if you want, a state-wide matter that you would expect to have a clear position in this assembly presented by the Prime Minister himself. Thus, in view of the developments in the last few months, it seems that this is only an environmental issue, since only Minister Janez Podobnik dealt more seriously with terminals in the government. That's not enough. Therefore, I repeat that I miss the Prime Minister in this Chamber today. Today, the Prime Minister could be asked what the deal was with the president of the Russian oil corporation Lukoil Alekperov. Lukoil was also interested in this visit in the already built infrastructure along the Slovenian coast, where Russian society sees the possibility of developing its own logistics centre in this part of Europe. Mr Vizjak, Minister of Economy, said at that time that he would meet with the representatives of Lukoila again as soon as possible. I have a strange feeling, Environment Minister Podobnik here defends environmental interests against terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, and his colleagues, led by the Prime Minister, are likely to talk almost simultaneously about oil and gas business in Moscow. Therefore, it would be better if the President of the National Assembly convened this extraordinary meeting on Thursday, when the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Economy will be back in their country. With regard to today's debate, I would like to draw attention to another problem that is closely linked to the ecology of the Gulf of Markets and is directly linked to our territory. This is a problem of mercury, which is an extremely toxic liquid metal. In his opening remarks, Environment Minister Janez Podobnik said that the main problem in the operation and construction of the gas terminal is the occurrence of sediment resuspension, which contains elevated mercury concentrations. This resuspension causes the mercury to reactivate and, as a result, it appears in mercury form. But it accumulates in marine organisms. It is therefore expected to increase the concentration of this form of mercury in the water and consequently also in the fishes of the Straza Bay and also in the wider North Adriatic, said the minister in this professional jargon. Although the Gulf of Markets is very burdensome if I focus at this point on mercury pollution. In Idrija, the second largest silver mine in the world operated for more than half a thousand years, just beyond the Spanish Almadene. At least 10% of the world's mercury reserves are still in the Idrian mine. Intensive research into the circulation of mercury in Idria, Posoča and the Gulf of Tržaska has shown that the main source of mercury in the environment is the landfill of fossil fuels and heifers in the area of Idria and, in particular, the contaminated finger along the Idrija and Soča rivers. With heavy rain, the contaminated fingers and burner remains are being washed and transported to the Gulf of Markets. For example, in November 1997, at the time of the Soča flood, nearly five tons of mercury were taken to the Gulf of Tržaška. Average annual values range from one and a half to two tons of mercury. Research has shown that the distribution of mercury in the sediments of the Straza Bay is the highest in the Adriatic Sea, especially the highly toxic methyl mercury. It is the poisoning of fishermen in the Japanese Gulf of Minamata that has led to the gradual abandonment of mercury mines and that, right now at European level, an EU strategy for mercury is being adopted when EU countries are expected to eliminate mercury from use by 2008 or with some exceptions by 2011. In the Gulf of Markets, mercury concentrations in fish are three to four times higher than the global average or such quantities, meaning that only one meal of fish could be consumed within one week. Finally, let me say that I support the decisions of the parent committee and the amendment of the parliamentary club to the third decision. Above all, I would like to stress that Slovenian policy on the issue of gas terminals would be unified. We need to put national interests ahead of client policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u136	Mr Mitja Ljublješek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, the well-respected council! The general impression I got at today's session was that there was a lot of previous thunder and a little rain in the session itself. The facts presented in writing and orally by the government and the two district ministers seem to have blown up storm clouds. I am one of those who, just before the meeting, felt that today's meeting of the National Assembly was legitimate but unnecessary, too early. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only on the basis of an expert study and analysis of the expert group of the Interdepartmental Commission - this in particular - has been negatively identified until the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. It is true, however, that today's meeting and the conclusions can be a strong argument to support the government in further proceedings against Italy. The topic we are discussing today is a matter of national interest. I therefore rightly expected that the debate would take place in an appropriate manner in order to be constructive, tactful, realistic and ad hoc. That is not the case, I am convinced by the debate of some opposition Members. In my debate, I will not go further into the professional content and subject matter, namely that the construction and operation of gas terminals would have significant cross-border impacts in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from a transport, general security, environmental and economic and social point of view. That is what we all claim today, and there is no reason to convince the believers. I am, however, interested as a Member of the actual activities of the responsible government institutions and departments and the government, with specific date activities, and in particular the reasons for the sharp criticism of the opposition and its demands to convene an urgent meeting of the home labour force as well as today's meeting of the National Assembly. My impression, which I have received so far from the media, media performances by opposition Members, ministers and experts, and in particular from the material we have received for this meeting, is - and I cannot get rid of it - that the opposition is using the problem of terminals for its political promotion. Why do I have that impression? It was only in April that the opposition's action against the government began due to arguments on gas terminals. In recent days, however, its tactics have turned into a state-of-the-art attitude, insofar as it is a matter of national interest, with comments that the government is now making good moves, but mainly because of pressure from them as opposition. These claims by the opposition certainly do not hold back. Also calling on the opposition to identify the potential objective responsibilities of individual public function holders and the appropriate measures do not at all indicate that the intentions to solve the problem are sincere, fair and well-intentioned. The government's activities began, as is evident from the material, on 17 February, and the latter is crucial with the government meeting on 25 May and the conclusions adopted at that government. In the meantime, there have been a number of activities, for example 68, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Preventing the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets is certainly a national interest and the government is aware of this from the very beginning. This is what the written dates and content of individual important government activities tell us not to list them. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its competent ministries have, in my opinion, properly, in a timely and reasoned manner guided the necessary procedures for this issue towards Italy, making it official and clear that the Slovenian Government has expressed its interest in the partnership and consistent resolution of international and European law. I even believe that the government has conducted these procedures in a timely, comprehensive, inter-resortive, and reasoned manner, also because of the poor practice ahead of the years of previous governments and previous coalitions, when the problems of great national interest remained unresolved, such as the maritime border in the Gulf of Piran or the construction of the border crossing that Croatia has built on Slovenian territory. The government's activities to protect Slovenian interests regarding the construction of terminals began in February and the opposition started its negative criticism of the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only on 18 April, requiring an urgent meeting of the mother's labour force, although a number of activities had already been initiated both by the government and by the expert group of the inter-ministerial commission. I stress that preventing the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets is in the Slovenian national interest and that it is essential that we rise above the client interests. Let us trust the Government, which has already demonstrated by its activities and measures that it has been aware of the problem since its inception and is also addressing it, as it is appropriate for a European Community country, through diplomatic channels in accordance with international law and European Community law, and which is particularly important, on the basis of expert and well-founded analyses and studies. I am confident that its decisions will also follow the provisions of the Barcelona Convention and its Protocols, as well as the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Slovenia, the Government of Croatia and the Government of Italy for the introduction of a common navigation system in the northern Adriatic. It would be right for all to support the proposed conclusions of the parent working body and the possible substantive additions from today's meeting and not point out who is more deserving in solving the national interests of narrow client positions and their own praises. National interest is our common interests, common problem, common task, common solution and joint work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u138	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have heard many things, and perhaps it is already much clearer why this meeting is necessary. I'm just going to comment on a few things. It bothers me to say that the Slovenian state was too harsh for our representatives to respond too harshly to the fact that it was a skirmish. I would say, and too late, of course, that if the media didn't write about matters, about diplomatic actions, that doesn't mean that this hasn't happened. Last but not least, diplomacy is to do something by the eyes of the public and not to call a press conference, and it is said, but now I have sent my colleague from the neighbouring country one note, one letter, and so on, that is not how it is done. As for sharpness, I would say that there are some standards of communication between countries, not least some levels of good-neighbourly relations, so there are also diplomatic pathways. How should the sharpest look, or should we fight with our neighbors? You know, we're from the country where the neighbors were fighting, and we also split up because they were solving unresolved problems, and if I call it that, not democratically. We have left from there, and not least, I do not want to accuse anyone, but we cannot be Croatia, and we are not, if not their own, who, if not theirs, will threaten to send a battleship to the Bay of Piran, and if necessary, they will shoot a little. We do not use or use such methods. Because we do not use such methods, we are in the European Union and our neighbours will not for a long time, and neither will they. Whether someone likes it or not, whether it's diplomatic or not, but it is. As to why our foreign minister is no longer here today, I would say that we have learned from the President of the National Assembly at the outset, those who were here, that the applicants requested a meeting today. It's not a matter for the President of the National Assembly, but it's what the proponents demanded. I'm not going to comment on why that is. I would say, however, that he did the right thing if he left the delegation to Moscow, because probably there in Moscow we would not be able to understand if the Minister of Foreign Affairs postponed this visit, because of this meeting, when we are talking about a terminal that has the capacity, as far as the Russians are pumping or acquiring this gas in one minute, two minutes or three minutes. They just couldn't understand it. This is the order of the size of their ability to acquire this raw material, this energy and terminal capacity that we are talking about, which is problematic for Slovenia, and that is true, and I agree with that. But that's why you're canceling your visit, and that's gonna be harder. And there's something that really stabbed me, and these are the allegations, and what they're going to be talking about now, and what they're going to be talking to Lukoil, what's going to be going on in the Bay of Piran or the Bay of Cyprus, the port, they're not going to bring a tanker to the port of Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, you have forgotten that in Trs I do not know how much time, 20 or 30 years, there is a tanker terminal that has the capacity to bind six ships with such cargo, and that there are twelve of them after certain observations. Isn't that dangerous? This is said to be possible to drive oil, a few million tonnes, to supply Germany, but if it were to be in the port of Cyprus by accident - by chance, I say - it would bring some oil tanker for Slovenian needs, which would already be problematic. I'm kind of not getting along, why for others there can be a tanker, and for Slovenian needs God forbid! If we're still on the subject whose official title is what it is. If we had to talk about something else today, that's another matter. I would also like to say that if any government could protect national interests, it was also this one. I'm just going to say one case that might even be a little bit banal. This government has passed a law on the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone. At that time, the biggest opposition party convened a press conference, and they ridiculed this law for what it would do us in the first place. If I'm not mistaken, we could use him right now. I may be wrong, but I don't think we could use it, but then you made him laugh. That's one example. Now I'm going to say another one that I wrote down, but I didn't think I was going to have to, but one of the predecessors encouraged me a little bit to remember this national interest, and one of the governments has represented something. You have probably already forgotten that in 2000 the then Bajuk government had already adopted a decree or something, just before the elections, that the Slovenian Geodetic Authority should place Slovenian numbers in those four famous villages along the border. At the time, of course, the storm was perfect, the media and so on. Then there was an election and it couldn't be realized. Why, then, did the government that came come not realize this if it is of such strong interest to protect Slovenian national interests? That's what we're hearing today. I don't want to judge anyone, God forbid, I just want to remind you that we have to have the same standards, the same vats for all cases. At that time, it was an extraordinary opportunity to show how united we were. And today we are, I think we are, and then we weren't. And that action was a little bit back then, I'm not going to say that expression, spit it out; I was going to say something else. Today, we are all saying how I should go back to the beginning of this debate - what should this government do more sharply if everything was not right with those numbers at the time, as it should have been. [[...]] That's all I'm gonna do. Of course, I will support all these conclusions that we have confirmed on the committee. But I will not support the amendments that were subsequently submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u140	Thank you, Comrade Petan, also thank Vice-President Klavori for his leadership so far. On behalf of the proposer, a colleague, Aurelio Juri, took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u141	Thank you. To those who attribute evil purposes to us, if you or we want to fight with Italy, someone is talking about storm clouds that we are supposed to create. That's not true. We have simply proposed that diplomatic measures should be launched in time to deal with such stories. When we talk about the same vats, what is happening to us, that our diplomacy, as well as our entire policy, reacts as a hedgehog in the face of the greatest stupidity that is happening where the border is not yet defined, near Dragonja; in the story that goes on along the border, which is clear, which is not a dispute, of course, we are silent. This is a matter of responding in due time to the realization that it is an object which, in its influential area and the area of the safety zone, reaches our territorial waters in order to send an appropriate note. And they've already told the interlocutors here that he has to take us very seriously. That's what this is about. Second. I'm really worried, Comrade Petan, that there's already some ground to prepare for any new projects with Look Oil. I understand from your performance that somehow prepare the ground for why we don't respond to the oil terminal that's already in Trieste where the tankers were coming. I am already worried, and I think, by the time we are members of the European Union, that even that oil terminal in Trieste benefits us, we need to be connected properly, this is part of the European Union's common energy policy. The problem is our space, the problem is Luka Koper, no longer has the spatial capacity to allow the normal reception of unfriendly infrastructures. Indeed, I mentioned the third pier, which is intended only for a container terminal, and we already have a large hall. Now I can't imagine new installations of oil gas, natural gas or liquid oil being built for me in Luka Koper. This is the case, and I hope that the interest shown by Look Oil will not go in this direction or that we will adequately protect this area from such interventions, otherwise we will not be credible even to what is happening to us with the story of both gas terminals. We have to be very principled here. I support the efforts of the Ministry of the Environment to protect this area. This space for any further infrastructure intervention requires extreme care, extreme attention. I don't think we can afford more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u142	Thank you. Comrade Petan signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, I'll be very brief. Well, you don't have to worry that we're already hinting at something. Unfortunately, I don't think they know much in the government yet, but we're not a government, and it's not necessary for us to know if the government knows anything, so you don't have to worry here. Besides, if the Russian partners were to invest something with us, I think it could have been just a welcome thing. It's true that we would have agreed sooner if we could, but if the two partners don't get the job done, then he's gone, you probably know that. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say to you. If we didn't agree, then it wouldn't be a deal, but I wouldn't mind finding a common language with the Russian partners. As far as the port of Cyprus is concerned, I'm not quite so sure that this coal terminal is so eco-friendly, but if it comes up, I'm actually talking about some kind of swap or something that can't be done there. Because the one who defends this coal terminal doesn't consider ecology, that's what I'm going to say, and I'm not judging anyone. We have him there, and he served his purpose, and he is likely to serve that purpose for some time, but he is not the eco if I can use it. Once again, I wouldn't mind if our delegation in Russia took up business these days, I think it would be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u144	Thank you. Comrade Yuri, I can't give you a replica of the replica and I won't give it to you. It's a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u145	One more minute to discuss. Of course, I am not in favour of the coal terminal; the coal terminal is planned in the development plans of Luka Koper so that by 2015 it decreases to 10% of the current volume and replaces itself with new programmes, here are also studies, whether containers in this terminal could be installed as quickly as possible. But I'm not in favour of you replacing the coal terminal with a new oil terminal to understand each other. By searching for unkind cargo, it is difficult to eliminate, for there can be a lot of business damage. This is a process, but we are not looking for new accidents in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u146	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u147	The liquefied natural gas terminals in Tržaška concern 11 directives and conventions and 5 laws or resolutions in the Slovenian space with a constitution, it is said to be an eminent material for this space and also a question which some today underpin the art. I think it's in place, if not elsewhere, to prevent any inappropriate steps or unmade steps in the future, if we think they were just-like to go back, it seems inappropriate. Mayor Gradez thinks so. What's he saying? If Slovenia did so, our government, the Italian government would certainly react differently, not as calmly and politely as your ministers do. We are talking about the negligentness of these responses today, about the fragility of these responses of our government, which Mr. Chernač called "Piove, little manto-governo!" - The rain, the devil's government, I say, "Nebbia, we're burning Lento" - fog, slow government. However, the slow government is not for the first time slow in solving very current and acute problems this time, but it was also slow when we had to react more actively in the event of the return of images or the eminent manipulation that occurred in the film Heart in the abyss, or in the absence of the joint findings of the mixed commission and what else could I say. Yeah, it's true. Today we are looking for the soft tissue of the government, as Mr Jerovšek said, because we are wondering what the government should and should not do. We have heard many times that she has done everything she can, but if she has done everything, today there would be no 38,000 opponents of terminal construction and those who think that everything has not been done. If everything had been done, the reaction of the President of the State would not have been so strong and he would not have so strongly requested an explanation from the Government that the request should have been clarified or extended for expert discussions. Mr Rupel, of the many statements that have been quoted today, said I must underline another one that justifies my thinking and thesis that it was a blurry or milky response. What did he say on public TV? "I wish we wouldn't always jump when it comes to things that last settle themselves on their own." That's exactly what Mr. Rupel should do. Jumping, responding when it was time, not waiting for the media to respond to such eminent questions and to respond to the government's response in public space. As I have already stressed today, what about the credibility of the government, which learns about two such important environmental interventions from the media. If we have such an ignorant government, which then only learns about the events, then such a government should be in the morning, before it goes to rule, read the newspapers, and then decide how it will react and how it will not react. I believe that today's debate can have a significant impact on thinking about this from all sides of the confirmed harmful interference with the environment and space. This was the purpose of this debate, and I therefore believe that the conclusions that will be voted on will somehow disperse this fog into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u148	Thank you, Comrade Shirtz. My friend Tinker Bell, I ask, were you named?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u149	Yes, I was.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u150	You have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. What else do you expect from the greatest manipulator in this state council, what she said?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u152	Comrade Chernač, I am obliged to warn you to behave with respect. Comrade Blackie, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u153	I'd like to suggest that if you don't hear correctly, colleague Majda Shirtz, then read your magnetogram. I spoke in parables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u154	For your debate, of course, I will not say thank you very much, but please all future debates and debaters not to offend other colleagues and colleagues. I hope this is the first and only warning for today's session. Mr Mitja Slavinec spoke next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, we have heard a lot about whether the government has responded, whether it has reacted in a timely manner, or whether it has reacted in the right way. Of course, everyone sees things in his own way and in his own way. However, the fact that several times and many have been said is that the undisputed interest of all of us is to prevent the construction of terminals, at least in the way they are now set up, to such an extent and with such potential consequences and environmental impact. The purpose of today's meeting is to help the government, on the one hand, to make it more credible to cooperate and work, as it turns out that the government had certain data. And now we have only two options why she did not react earlier and more in terms of protecting Slovenia's interests. Or did she not know - of course this is not right and we hardly believe that the government would not know how to react - but the other thing is that she knew and did not want to, and that is even worse. And in view of this, I hope that none of this is true, and we will now be able, in some cases, to make use of this time that we have already received to extend the conduct of procedures by the Italians, because this is not an excuse to have elections in Italy. It is not a specific interlocutor who has changed, however, that Slovenia achieves that the party is in the process and that this is how it is dealt with. This also makes it very important that we do not waste time and that Slovenia has been involved in these procedures in a timely manner. Because, of course, all legal remedies must be exhausted at national and bilateral level, and only then can we reach out to the area of international conventions, which is very clearly stated that we are right and that our neighbours must ask our consent. Last but not least, a number of examples have been cited. As an example, I will only give a negative opinion on the construction of the Novo Virje hydroelectric power plant near Koprivnica, which Hungary gave to Croatia. Then we have several such cases, including the construction of a gas pipeline on the bottom of the Adriatic Sea from Istria to Italy, a bridge across the Danube between Romania and Bulgaria, and we could find them where two or more neighbouring countries have coordinated and then found a solution that was least burdensome for all and especially for the environment. Last but not least, after the Protocol, Italy should inform them, and in a credible manner, and not in pieces, as we have heard from the Government, that the Government has had to ask for documents on several occasions, for projects, because this certainly undermines credibility on the one hand of the Italian investors and authorities, and on the other hand, what we could expect from a good neighbour is to inform us of what it wants to do on our border. This is a good habit for two neighbors when they want to make changes on a fence between the two plots, not to be expected at the level of the two countries. And it is precisely because of the least that we can expect now that the government will step up its activities to achieve such a dynamic of procedures, so that we do not miss the deadlines in which we can reach them and, on the other hand, as I said in the introduction, prevent the construction of such terminals, which would have very negative environmental consequences. Look, this isn't just about what could happen if you hit two tankers. This is not only about what can happen to the sea, if there is a recent terrorist attack, as we have heard, this is much more, every day the environment and the sea will be permanently threatened by the operation of the terminals, due to the procedures, we have heard, not least, the specific varicine to be followed and maintained by these terminals, and this places a heavy burden on both the closed ecosystem and the Gulf of Straza. However, we must not forget pollution in terms of visual degradation of the sea and the environment, because as long as you come to the sea and there will be beautiful visibility, those terminals will be staring us in the eye, probably for several decades while there is still some gas and gas interest will be transported. And we must certainly be aware of the consequences of this and the legacy we leave to our craftsmen, and what the sea we will then have, so that we can play with it, so it is certainly right that this meeting today is that this debate has been held, and I reiterate that in this way we will constructively assist and help and give the broad legitimacy of our government to represent Slovenia's interests in participating, discussing and resolving these terminal matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u156	Thank you, Comrade Slavinec. Member Miran Potrč is on the list for the debate. He's not in the hall. I give my word to Ambassador Branko Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Well, perhaps most of the Members of the House today have asked themselves whether this topic is so urgent that it was necessary to convene an extraordinary meeting, my answer is no. As regards the procedures themselves, today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is convened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The content that we are discussing at today's meeting of the National Assembly and, in my opinion, also through the extensive material provided to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not in such a stage that this topic should already be addressed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Many of today's debaters have touched on topics that may not be the subject of today's debate at this single point when we are addressing these unfortunate terminals, but it is necessary to find that the subject is so serious that it really deserves to be addressed, but not in the National Assembly, but only in the working bodies of the National Assembly. This has certainly already happened, both parent working committees have already discussed this subject together with the government or the competent ministries and professional colleagues of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so there is nothing missing here. I would really regret that, after almost ten hours of treatment in the National Assembly, citizens and citizens would not have any concrete answers at all, as to what this is really about. Whether it is the fact that Members and Members will accuse each other of how much someone is a political option, or whether we will really stick to the content of today's debate if it has to be. It is my belief that when I have processed this material, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forwarded to us at this point of the agenda, there is virtually nothing missing, but we want to prove to the Slovenian public that the matter is delayed. Nothing is delayed, at least that's how I read from this material that I have at my disposal, and if someone writes it and signs it, then I believe it. I ask myself how our neighbouring Italians would react, not only to those in diplomacy, but also to those in local environments where there are virtually some plans or procedures for obtaining environmental impact assessments for the construction of these gas terminals. Here are the procedures that go on. Here it is mentioned, if I recall correctly, 9 months is this process, in practice these procedures take longer and I am sure that however we know Italian neighbours, they take quite a bit of time to do such important things. And all of these noodles and all these strong demands that we address the subject at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, however, seem premature to me. But don't let me say that I also define myself as to what I actually support. I support all those decisions of the parent committees that have been supported, but I do not agree with the fact that new facts are coming to the meeting of the parent committee for a few days and that colleagues from the opposition have already proposed amendments to the draft decisions that have been agreed upon with the necessary majority on the working bodies. And perhaps the question is, why is the Minister for Foreign Affairs not present? It seems to me, I'm going to say, it's almost unrealistic to repeat ourselves around this, it's been explained nicely, the president of the National Assembly has explained why it isn't. Some even believe that it would be necessary for the Prime Minister to be present here, but the Prime Minister's visit to Russia seems to be much, much more important. This is a visit that has been announced much earlier, harmonised and we can know, if we can get acquainted, that is an important visit by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Russia. I am confident that the government's visit to Russia, which begins today, will be much more important than the important conclusions of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which we are in the stage of our consideration. So perhaps at some point it would be better to find another topic that would have a more serious purpose than to discuss the subject at some extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, such as this topic on gas terminals. Nothing is delayed, there is enough time, the government has responded in time and is taking all the necessary procedures at national level, as required by international rules of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u158	Thank you. Procedurally, colleague Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. The right to an amendment is such a surprise as I have now heard about the fact that some of the opposition have proposed amendments, you know, this is the right of every Member to table amendments, and these Members who have tabled amendments are doing our job and are not following the instructions and records given to us by our professional services. If you do not have this right, this is your problem, so I would ask that in the following speeches that offend those Members who are following what the Rules of Procedure allow us to do in this house, please, if you are immersing and stopping such regrettable debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u160	Thank you, Comrade Zagorac. You are right, it would be my duty to remind my colleague Marinič that it is the right of every Member to supplement the investment. We continue the debate. There's a colleague of mine, Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Honourable Fellow Members and Members, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members. In fact, here we are repeating more or less one and the same today, and of course I think that 10 hours of debate on something called a debate on the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to plans to build terminals, that it is a barren doing, a waste of time, a real waste of time. At that time, we did not hear from the opposition what I expected the opposition to come up with some arguments, with some suggestions. Not that there's always an appearance that the government hasn't done enough. I don't know what she didn't do, given what we heard, she didn't jump on her head. In order to react sooner before this idea was in the public eye, we could even hear and I wrote down that I should have predicted that I should react harshly, I do not know how else than the Minister, the Prime Minister, could have written to the Prime Minister that there were already two Committee meetings and today ten hours for this work in Parliament, which could in fact be severely reduced. Because I also think that it is a direct transfer and it is now necessary to prove to the public that the government is guilty of something that is not yet, and this will be a little difficult to prove that it is responsible for something that the Italians are actually planning at some level of ideas. Earlier, one of the candidates said that he had heard that the Italian municipalities had prepared an alternative opinion on this, and he was a member of that work yesterday, and today we can read in the newspaper that the Mili municipality gave a negative opinion on this. It says in the media that the mayor requests that this be decided at the referendum by the local population in accordance with Agenda 21, and says as they have already rejected at the referendum the plan for the construction of a liquid propane warehouse, there they have this experience that they have already rejected this issue at the local level, and then says that they will also have to give their university experts their opinion that the district council, which is a state exposure, must give their opinion, and finally the Illy you mentioned, sends their energy plan and expects comments from Slovenia. To say that the government has not done something in time, if their local authorities are only now advertised in this regard, it will be a little difficult to prove to the Slovenian public. And I think it's actually at this point, as we say in Prlecia, mixing fog. There have been no proposals, there are some conclusions that have actually been more or less implemented. Of course, it will be necessary for Slovenia to monitor closely what will happen next, and if these matters go as Slovenia does not want, then it is certainly necessary to move the whole thing to the higher level where we are all members today, it is said within the European Union. Thus we now remain only with some, I would say, concerns that have no real argument, and also the opposition has not served us with some additional explanations, with some evidence, but what you have now read in various newspapers, then submit these newspaper articles and all that the government has done since April. However, I will conclude with this because there is no point in talking about this more and more, I have been very careful about what the proponents have said, and I have written by one of the applicants and I think it is also in the magnetogram so that it is necessary to achieve that the matter is prevented or at least slowed down. It is said to be prevented, but if not, this motioner said that a slowdown should be achieved. Or, then, you opposition colleagues, who are proposing this point, are in fact all convinced that this matter must be prevented, or you are actually concerned that the matter is not prevented, but that the Slovenian public is speaking, somehow the current government shows to the Slovenian public that it is guilty of setting up some terminals in the Italian part of the sea, so whether we want it or not, this sea is Italian, but it is true that such an investment and such construction could have, we are not yet sure, or also, but it could also have an impact on the wider area, so also on the part that we call the Slovenian sea. That's it. Respectable colleagues from the opposition! You will have to prepare better for such extraordinary sessions as you have called on her today, come up with more substantial arguments. The fact that all of us, one after the other, repeat what the government has not done and, in fact, we will find out for ourselves, and that you, from the opposition, have also acknowledged that it has done, on such a basis it will be difficult to gain the confidence of the Slovenes and Slovenes in the parts of this highest body. I think that way they'll have us more quickly than they already have us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u162	Thank you, Comrade Sok. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mag. Milan M. Squeakles.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u163	Mr President, otherwise I have understood that my colleague Gantar wishes to speak on behalf of the proposer, but I will go forward with my debate. A few things that I think are important, despite the fact that today's debate is already quite a long time. Undoubtedly, the government has only fully begun to react when we requested this extraordinary meeting, and I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, however, supported certain activities of the Minister for Environment and Space with a diplomatic note. Here you say some who defend this government is a lot of noise for nothing. 200 billion tolars a major investment is not empty, but especially for those who are partners in this business, it is a very large profit. And I wouldn't want to end up with us on this side of the border simply without the right answers, but there would be two terminals. That is why I think it is right that we have begun to ask parliamentary questions, to call press conferences, to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space and that we are in this Chamber today. The main question we're talking about today is, if you knew, you're delusional because the data confirms that you've responded very late. But if you didn't know what was going on on the other side of the border, and you had to get to know it only from the newspapers in February and so on, after the government didn't act completely. Today there is much discussion about the absent Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's right. The programme of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia on a visit to Moscow shows on the government's website that this visit begins on Wednesday, 31 May at 10 a.m. with reception with the mayor of Moscow and then continues with some meetings at a higher level. Mr Rupel was able to fly to a congregation for the Republic, so to speak, with an extraordinary plane when necessary, but he did not feel the need to fly on Wednesday morning to the first official event on the occasion of Mr Janša's visit to Moscow. That is why I am particularly interested in whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs actually works as you say you are now acting, that you are somehow awakened. I wonder, Mr Minister is not here, I ask the Secretary of State whether last week, at a two-day closed session of EU foreign ministers in Kloštr pri Dunaj on a clause where they are talking about the constitution, the Minister of Foreign Affairs had a bilateral meeting with the Foreign Minister of Italy and have discussed this issue? Is the Secretary of State for Home Affairs, or are we going to say "European affairs" because it is European issues, which he has at any time triggered in the context of the meetings of the Committee on General and Foreign Affairs? Have you, Mr Minister for Environment and Space, raised this issue within the Council of Ministers for Environment and Space? I don't remember a meeting of the EU's closed-door Friday Committee on EU Affairs in which to say anything about this? One of the Members said earlier that the Milje municipality had given a negative opinion. I am pleased that at least this municipality has done so, but gentlemen, whether we will depend here in Slovenia on the Municipality of Milje for the matter to stop. The government says that the assessment and assessment procedures for both gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets have not yet been initiated. The media report that, at least since the beginning of the service conference in October 2005, it has been clear for the terminal in Zavaja that the safety and risk assessment is practically complete and that the problem is that, of course, the non-technical study is weak, unilateral, uses old, incorrect data, which is of course perfectly logical, because it is actually a study produced by the investor himself. I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Foreign Minister, the absent Secretary of State for European Affairs, the Minister for the Environment and Space, whether we would even react if it were not for this meeting, or, of course, the 200 billion euro investment would simply be the price for us to be silent in Slovenia. And last but not least, you say that Mr Janša is solving this with arrangements in Russia. I hope that no one believes that Mr Janša is precisely because an extraordinary meeting was convened, he received an appointment with Mr Putin on Wednesday at 12.45 p.m. on Wednesday. It is interesting, however, that Mr Janša says, if, of course, long-term gas supply contracts were to be restored or increased through pipelines, then the issue of the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets or anywhere in the Adriatic Sea would also cause significantly less problems. So, Mr Janša says that the problems are very big, but here you all say that the problems are not that the procedures have not started at all and why we are even demanding this extraordinary meeting. I think that the meeting has been justified, and I hope that now that you are here together in a better way, but more comprehensively, together; and above all, the foreign ministry, the government service for European affairs, all the bodies that work also in relation to the European institutions, will help the Ministry of Environment and Space to bring our "cases" to a decision that will mean that there will be no terminals there. And finally, who hopes to say on behalf of the government that there will be no sea terminal or land terminal in the Gulf of Markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u164	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Paul Ganttar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u165	So, in particular, I would like to answer one question in this context. Many times it was said here that what the opposition here at least, all the procedures were going on normally, we reacted at the right time, we were collecting information, we were active, more than 30 activities were recorded in this report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, I could probably count on my side more than 30 activities, but I am an individual if I were to take into account every phone conversation at home and abroad regarding terminals. But it's something else. If it wasn't for an accident, I'd say, blur the optics of this debate. The government argues that nothing is missing because the environmental impact assessment on the Italian side has not yet begun. This is what the government said, and this has been reaffirmed today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Italian officials claim that both projects are in the environmental impact assessment phase. Trust who? It's not Italian media, Italian officials confirm it. The Slovenian government argues that this impact assessment may already be going on, but because we are not involved, it is as if it is not happening. I say again, it's just like if I don't wake up in the morning, it doesn't start in the morning. This is a very irresponsible act that can cost us a lot. When the impact assessment is completed when the impact report is made, it will be activated and the administrative procedure will be completed, ending with the issue of what we call an environmental consensus and so on. It'll be too late, of course. That is why I say that such action is inappropriate and can cost us a lot. On some other aspects, however, later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u166	Thank you. Secretary of State, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. As for today's visit to Moscow. A visit to Moscow begins this afternoon, this evening, and was agreed quite before the extraordinary meeting this afternoon. And you will probably agree that this visit was not simply delayed. As far as the clause is concerned. During the weekend, Minister Rupel and D'Alem actually met, but it was an escape meeting because the meeting was dedicated to other subjects. But they agreed to meet as soon as possible; now we are coordinating the dates. As regards the start of our activities, once again, these activities started on these terminal matters, if I may say so, long before the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was convened. The government also protects the interests of the state of Slovenia without such extraordinary meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u168	Thank you. The Secretary of State, Mag. Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, there is certainly a procedure on the Italian side. No one claimed that the proceedings were not ongoing. To understand exactly what part of the process that it is in and what follows for both terminals is something that our Interdepartmental Working Group has also dealt with. However, in any event, regardless of the stage of this procedure, part of the procedure dealing with cross-border impacts simply could not be initiated because none of the materials of this part of the procedure were being examined. And our fundamental objection to this process, or in the previous stages of this procedure, is that this element of the assessment simply does not exist. And the fact is that this is not a negligible information, this is a very important element of this process. No one claimed and never claimed that that's why everything was fine. On the contrary. The overall analysis of the Interdepartmental Working Group went in the direction precisely because this work was not in the material because, according to the methodology and technical characteristics of both terminals, the simple cross-border impact has not been addressed and even recorded, this process is flawed. From the first moment on, from the first letter to the Minister, we have challenged this method of handling the procedure and requested the inclusion in the legitimate part of the procedure, i.e. the legitimate part from the point of view of the Slovenian side of cross-border influences. In no case can we claim that the procedure is not ongoing. Certainly certain procedures are in progress. While that part of the procedure that is important for Slovenia, which is essential for the partnership to address this issue, it is simply not yet. We both want to enter this part of the procedure with the proposal for a protocol and with all the appeals made so far by the Minister and the Ministry. That is why we are planning and systematically preparing, even if Italy insists on its core, to date the only official fact that there are no cross-border impacts or that it does not have an international obligation to address cross-border impact. Any other assertion of the stage in which we, or the way in which we could change this phase, have prevented, however procedurally, the current situation is simply technically impossible. We have done the right thing, and with the expectation that a negative reaction may also occur from the Italian side, we have secured ourselves with conclusions, with correspondence and with warnings from the first moment to the present day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u170	Thank you. We have been reported for discussion on behalf of Dr. Gantar's proposer and procedurally, or a replica, Comrade Squeakl? Replica, then you have the upper hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u171	Very briefly. I am pleased that Mr Cerar has said, however, that there was an event in Kloster, although of course it would be better to let the public know about it as soon as the event happened if it had happened. And secondly, no one answered the question who could even tell you that there would be no terminals. You know, the story of so-called cross-border influence is the same story as any building permit. If the neighbour does not prove the area of influence that extends to his yard, then of course he is not a party to the proceedings. Gentlemen, technical activities will not be enough, so we are in the National Assembly - to show the single political will as Slovenia and, above all, encourage the government to start working politically in this process. And here in this area, for the field of political action, we estimate that the government recognises it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u172	Thank you. Peace in the hall, please. He has the floor on behalf of Dr. Gantar's proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, Mr Secretary of State Starman, because we understand each other very well, we read the same documents - those we have at our disposal - and we interpret them very similarly, because otherwise it is almost impossible. I am pleased, however, that you have corrected the Foreign Minister's position today that the impact assessment procedures for both terminals in Italy are taking place, that it is difficult to decipher, at which stage they are, at 90% or 100% probability in the environmental impact assessment phase, not in the overall assessment phase, according to the project, but not at the strategic level, this must also be established. And, of course, it must be agreed that the procedures are going on, as you said, but that the procedures for cross-border environmental impact assessment are not going on, and this is simply not because they have not been considered from the beginning. Because, of course, as we read everything we have, they have never assumed in what they are doing that cross-border influences are even possible. Not only are they not supposed to, but they have wiped out Slovenia or everything that is not within Italy, it is not, it is not, it is, in fact, a nonexistent world, except for the Croatian port of Koper, which is mentioned. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u174	Comrade Gantar, if you'll excuse me. Peace in the hall! Comrade Squeakle, if you have an interview, and Comrade Bajc, please do it in the lobby. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The problem that I see is that we will now negotiate with the Italians for a long and broad protocol to regulate our entry into environmental impact assessment, but suddenly there will be an environmental impact assessment that can be completed, completed, stamped - and then we are out. This is mine and this is our main fear. There is no good answer to this fear right now. The government doesn't have it, nobody else has it. And that's our biggest problem right now. Our position is that if the government had reacted with a diplomatic note earlier, if one of the letters of Minister Podobnik had been sent with a diplomatic note, by diplomatic mail, as suggested yesterday by a specialist in international maritime law, Dr. Pogačnik, then it would probably have been a little easier. And that's exactly what our objection is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u176	Thank you. Mag. Starman, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u177	See, if Italy had completed the procedure and completely ignored any correspondence, the requirement for international law and directives, it would be in direct violation of both international and European law. In this case, in line with existing practice, including the practice of the Luxembourg Court, Slovenia would have the title to challenge such a decision. In any case, without an agreement on a common assessment - and when we talk about a protocol, we are talking about a joint assessment at the strategic level - this joint assessment cannot come without an agreement on the way, the joint assessment, and we know this from all 42 cases that were discussed at the beginning, and we know this from all the cases that we have heard today. Thus, in any case and with the Committee's proposed decisions, the matter is going in this direction, and this is precisely what happens when Slovenia is ignored in this process and today justifiably asserts that it has a procedural legitimacy, it will continue to use all legal remedies. Now other solutions, other instruments at this stage in this way, other than the proposed response, simply do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u178	Thank you. Comrade Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u179	I think that this brief exchange of views between the Secretary of State and me is useful, because it is really substantive, it is real. Exactly. If Italy had just completed the procedure without involving us, it would have violated the known European legislation and of course the Conventions and, of course, the purpose of this extraordinary session is, of course, already to provoke conclusions which to some extent help Slovenia by requiring a return of this assessment to the environmental impact on the early situation, on the initial situation, this is a very important decision that we will take today, which can be of great help. A lot helps with the possible conflict that would happen. Because if we did nothing, then Italy would prove that we did not actually complain fairly, because we did not take advantage of the possibility in the PSC procedure - the assessment of the impact on the environment it is carrying out, so this meeting today is of course important to the unbelieving Tomas in this Chamber. It is important because today we will adopt some of the Committee's decisions proposed by the opposition - but this is not so important now - which will allow the government to protect itself and exercise its interests. This can be done better with these conclusions than without these conclusions. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u180	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say a few more things about what the actions of the local communities in Slovenia were. I have to correct myself, when I represented the position of the Group of Members, I said that in all the municipalities at the meetings of the Municipal Decisions we adopted each world but our own package of conclusions, which we then delivered to the competent places. In the municipality of Piran, I explained or received information at the time of the meeting, so she made a statement a long time ago - I think for a month and a half - the mayor of Vojka Štular, while at the meetings of the council of the Municipality of Koper and at the meeting of the municipal council of Izola we adopted quite clear conclusions and views, which we also took note of by the competent ministries in the Italian government. We considered that in Rome, however, we should know that not only the municipalities on the Italian side of the border and the inhabitants of those municipalities, but also the people on the Slovenian side of the border, who we are, or especially when we are talking about a terminal at sea, are even more affected by the consequences, real and direct, of those who may have potential consequences as a result of possible terrorist attacks or accidents. I would also like to pay particular attention to this, namely, the terrorist attacks at this time of this session have been quite said. Also, a concrete case from more than 30 years ago was cited when it was actually a terrorist attack on an oil terminal in Trieste Valley, but I must say that, of course, the consequences of such an attack on a gas warehouse, a liquefied natural gas, are much worse than when it comes to oil. All you have to do here is look at the material prepared by the Interdepartmental Group, and see what could happen if such a terrible event were to happen, I can say, an event. I don't want to hear us panic and scare people again. I think our citizens, citizens and citizens in Slovenia are smart enough to read to monitor what is happening in the world and what could happen in the world. Research has been done in this direction, and none of us politicians, nor from civil society, has deliberately spread any fear or panic, but since the first meeting we had at the end of March or just in the beginning of April in Cyprus on this subject, even government representatives have been at this meeting in Cyprus, there have been quite a lot of things clear and sober and, of course, criticism by many of us that the government's reaction, I stress, has been very slow. When we talk all the time about what someone in these governments has done, we are constantly dizzy by the perceptions we have had regarding the Ministry's reactions to the environment and space. I hope to say that the first and only response immediately came when it received the first slightly more relevant information, the Ministry of Environment and Space, and that it also reacted only within this Government by addressing writing to the competent minister in the then government, asking the Minister and his associates and co-workers whether this minister will be another five minutes or five years. They didn't care about that. They were only interested in informing their colleague that he was radically wrong because he did not ask us for a position and agreement on such important interventions in the room. And here's what I'm going to say. We are always talking about environmental impact assessment or overall environmental impact assessment, and we are thinking about the Ministry of the Environment and Space, that it is appropriate to assess what the environmental impacts are and forget that the environment is not just the sea, that the environment is not just sponges and snails and fish, that the environment is not only pollution or pollution, that it is raising mercury or not rising into suspension, but that the environment is still something else, that is mainly because it is an investment or construction that people are doing, that is an investment, that is building that mainly on the environment that we are creating, people - people on the western, northern and eastern coasts of the North Adriatic, the market, let's say a wider north Adriatic bay, that is making it from the medium Adriatic, that is mainly the environment that we are creating - people on the very high waters of the North Adriatic, that are passing through the Far East, or the Far East Sea, that is making it into the north of the Sea, that is able to prevent the North Sea of the river, which is making it from making it from the North Sea, or the Adriatic. And that is why I must say that those who live on the eastern coast of the North Adriatic Gulf do not intend to tell Tržasko, because it is a narrower area than only the Gulf of Markets, of course we know what is happening there. We know what happens when the Pad River is dry, we know what happens when it's very watery and it brings with a stream that hits exactly opposite the coast of Pula and brings to us logs that have diameters of about three feet and more. That's what's going on. But when it's dry and when the fall doesn't have that expressive wateriness, then we have the sea clean and even, which is very rare, but it happened exactly two, three years ago to turn the current south, on our side. So these are the effects, the changes I often make to you, especially the continent - do not resent, the insult is not meant, but the people you live on the continent do not even dream of. And that is why I think that when we talk about the government's reactions and when we talk about who or when something has been done in time, we need to list all other ministries, which should also write to their colleagues and tell them, listen, Mr this and this, here something does not read. The Ministry of Transport and Communications, pardon, the Ministry of Transport should, because it is among the first, even at the first emergency meeting of the Committee, has warned the representative of the Maritime Administration that it will be necessary to change the "Marsh route" across the oceans coming to the Cyprus and market ports. And the minister should have written this to his colleague on the Italian side, even though they were at the door of the election. That's irrelevant. Any government of any country is always, whether it has 15 minutes until the end of its mandate, whether it still has a full mandate, fully responsible for the conduct of the country as a whole, it still says it represents its country. And if the Prime Minister of Berlusconi received a letter from Mr Janša, he should then also transfer it to his successor, Mr Roman Prodi. And he's supposed to keep working. I see no reason to accuse ourselves of when there are elections in neighbouring countries. It's a minor matter. We're communicating with the state, and that moment is the representative of one country, one team, next time there'll be another team. We're talking about energy. We know which minister and which ministry is responsible for energy in our country. Why did not our Minister of Economy turn to his colleague in the Italian Government and warn him that, according to the information available, the information, dimensions, quantities of gas to be loaded at these two terminals were far beyond the needs of Furlania-Julia and all northern Italy. It is evident that these are trans-European projects, which we have heard today from Minister Rupl, so-called TEN E, that this is a trans-European network for the transport of energy, electricity or gas, and that in these cases the EU Commission has proposed to Parliament and is in the process of adopting, at that time I have also found something that is not easy to do, but I know that you in the government are better equipped, I have understood that the EU has foreseen the construction of two terminals in the northern Adriatic, not in the Gulf of Markets, but in the northern Adriatic, one "offshore" and one on land, and that in 2003. This decision was then considered, even in 2004, when we were already full-fledged members of the EU and could have warned the Minister of Economy that something did not "sleep" here would have been said domestically. Something's not right here. Have you asked us who are on the east side of the North Adriatic, whether we agree with the location or where this location should be more precisely? The financing of trans-European energy, electricity and gas transport will cost between 2006 and 2013, say and write, €20 billion, which would amount to about 5,000 billion tolars. And for investments in third countries, such as one broadcast terminal in Egypt and elsewhere, an additional €8 billion will be earmarked for these investments in these six years. We are not aware at all that we have become a toy in the hands of the EU and a capital that we know how powerful it is through our lobbying companies in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg, depending on where the Commission or the European Parliament is currently sitting. I think that we should seriously ask ourselves whether our citizens and citizens are really of such little value that, if the Prime Minister does not already engage in these matters, he does not instruct his ministers who have competence in this area that everyone in his field is required to open maps and make things clear. I think that three and a half kilometres from the Slovenian coast, I do not know if Mr Rupel, who is currently absent, represents that from his weekend house in the string valley, which is on the territory of the municipality of Izola, will be looking at a terminal that will pop out of the sea, so that his beautiful view of the sunset will no longer be a beautiful view. Even if he's inactive, it's bad for us to look at him like that. And the worst part of all of this is that - today on the radio, I listened to this when they asked about the democratic impact of the voice of the people in Parliament, and people said that either way, both terminals would be built because we don't know how to stand for our rights and our right. I think that this government should not afford to allow itself - not to allow it, because it has nothing to allow it, but to create the impression that it is not capable of overcoming us, the Slovenes, some position against our neighbours, such that they will not be able to impose certain decisions on us, that they will not be able to impose any harmful actions on us that will primarily harm us. But they will also harm themselves. The craziest of all is that the entire northern Adriatic would be affected by this. Their inhabitants resist, we resist, and both governments let things go well. Whether Spanish, international or any capital is already more valuable and more important than the fate of a few million people who live and come on vacation and do business on these three, they could say, the coasts, because it is also about Croatia after all, and no one asks them any questions anyway. Nobody asks us any more than they do when we know what kind of pressure the loving and good neighbours of Italy are under now before they enter the European Union. That is why I would like to reiterate, remember, the representatives of the government, and inform your President that the people of Slovenia are aware of the consequences that this can have for us and our neighbours in the neighbouring municipalities, and that they are also required to be informed by the government about everything that is going on in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u182	Thank you. Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I can only assure Mrs Pecan that the government will continue to keep all its activities transparent and ongoing, especially for civil society in the Slovenian coast and in Slovenia or in the coast as well as for local communities. Allow me, however, to comment briefly on a part of your debate that discusses this pan-European energy network or two decisions of the European Parliament in 2003. One of the important decisions of the government, by the way, we sent them into the procedure on 9 May. Remember when you proposed an extraordinary meeting: the government is urging the Ministry of Economy to draw the Republic of Italy's attention to a comprehensive approach in planning the placement of energy facilities into a space, in the spirit of a new decision taken by the European Parliament and the Council setting up for trans-European energy networks and repealing decisions. What's this all about? These two decisions have been supplemented or repealed or amended, which means that they too will have to be fully subordinate to this environmental sensitivity, which is an extremely important information. And our colleagues from the economy, apart from the fact that the decision also gave them a mandate to meet as soon as possible, we have therefore committed ourselves to this decision to draw attention to this comprehensive approach. Let me be more specific. The decision is an indicative programme of energy facilities that are important for European energy supply. However, the projects therein are identified as priority projects of common interest. And since the common interests of the community are at stake, the provisions of this Decision express clear requirements that these projects, in accordance with Community environmental legislation, must be judged on a programme basis, this is a planning level; and now this is an essential issue not to start. At the planning level and only then at the project level, but also to take into account the requirements for neighbourhood cooperation, which we have demanded when it comes to cross-border environmental impacts. And our expert group has identified such cross-border environmental impact assessments and, as previously stated, what the government has concluded at the political level, it has concluded with a conclusion, and the Government's conclusion is a political act to have significant cross-border impacts on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia on the construction and operation of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u184	Thank you. I have three other panellists or two on the list of applicants: mag. Branca Grims and Dear Roots. The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I must say, I am very pleased to be here for Mrs Pechanovo right now. For I am firmly convinced that good and effective foreign policy is the one based on the highest possible degree of consensus. If today is the red thread of all debates, at least as far as I can understand them, that we all stand unitedly behind the view that the two such objects in this part of the Adriatic are not reliably judged, but I think that this part of the debate is a bit too narrow. But what bothers me even more is everything that binds to it, especially this narrow little policy that leads, you know, to what very fun thing. Allow me to show you one thing: just now, the Lady of Social Democrats has very strongly stated that she condemns the servitude towards the European Union and the international capital committed by the Government in 2003 and 2004, which should have reacted when the decision was taken at European Union level on the two terminals in the northern Adriatic. I absolutely agree with her. I would point out, however, that at the time the LDS was in power with the then United List, the current Social Democratic Party, and that, thank God, it was indeed time that, at the end of 2004, good Miklavž brought government under the leadership of Mr Janez Janša, in which, as the lady herself admits, at least some minister defending national interest. So much as paraphrasing what's already been said here today, you know. Because I think that the problems we are talking about are much too serious and because I hear a lot of noise on the left, they are particularly too serious to be resolved by a discussion at a level such as that of the Member States of the European Union at ministerial level, when the meeting of the Member States of the European Union was sneerly called "an event in Kloštr", and the government called, "let it jump", this is a literal quote. Since you were the ones who said this yesterday in Turkey, I must say that looking for a lost paradise there has not helped you much and that you will be looking for it for quite some time with this way of working. Now, if I go back to the essence of the story. Actually, there are two problems here. One is the environment, our Primorje, which is sure, but not only because of these two terminals potentially, but in reality, has already been horribly burdened. This is not only our problem, it is far from being a problem that Slovenia could solve on its own, but in my firm belief it is something that requires a great degree of tolerance, conversation and participation of at least three countries, Slovenia, Croatia and Italy. To talk now about these two terminals as if they were bringing fire and sulphur, and that they would make the whole sea dry, is far from real. Whoever dives - I like to dive in the sea - knows that 20, 30 years ago in the Adriatic on this part, the north, saw under the water of life as much as you wanted, from fish, seahorses, all you want, go diving now, do not have to go to the kopra port, there is enough tourist center, you will see tears falling apart, living creatures that were once alive, and now there are only things left of them, that we do not say what romantic Venices are in summer heat, when they smell the rotten eggs, and what romantic ride in the gondola is really an unforgettable experience. The fact is that there has been a very bad situation over the past few decades, and what we are discussing today is, once again, a symbol of all this, I stress. All that comes from the Pada Nue in one day into the Adriatic Sea is, in my firm belief, a substantial greater environmental burden than would have come from these two terminals, but of course there is no one in this Chamber who would have thought that these two terminals were judging exactly those of the Adriatic Sea, where the Italians wanted to push them in French if anyone had this opinion to raise their hand, but as far as I can see, no one raised it. Well, there's one thing about being a judge over there. It's nice to meet you. But what might actually happen in this case. You talk a lot about potential danger. Look, my firm belief is that the potential danger is much greater by all that has already come into the Adriatic Sea, but because of the negligence of many countries, among which not only do we point our finger around, it is unfortunately also the former Yugoslavia and Slovenia's fault for many things, that we are not just talking about living silver, which some of you have already mentioned, that we would remind you that behind the back of people, almost no one knew anything about it, for decades running waste materials from Italian mines nicely to the Slovenian side, and to the Slovenian side, that is to say, in a river of green beauty, as we all have popularly named, these were heavy metals, all the pigs of this world that you invent, that is something that remains in the environment, which permanently poisons the state of Italy, that we will be able to present the dimension of problems, and that we are not talking about all of this world's pigs that you've invented, that you've created, that is something that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that, that, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that, that is, that, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that If these two terminals are really dripping over the edge, we can have different opinions about this, it's my opinion, I told him, I firmly believe that it would be better to locate them somewhere else. The Italians were very in French. Do you know what the French did to the Germans? They were placed at the border by one of those experimental nuclear reactors that could be very dangerous, and they never forgot that. For this reason it will have to be placed on one side of the scale. On the other hand, on the other hand, the issue that you have addressed with your left hand today is the issue of energy supply. You know, it'll be very heartwarming to observe that opposition that will tell the government not to take care of the energy if it does. It is necessary to find a solution that meets both criteria, and I believe that this is the first and basic task of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u186	Thank you. Next on the list of applicants is fellow Member Drago Koren. Replica, I'm sorry. Replica, colleague of Pecans, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u187	So, I would answer Mr Grimes if he didn't want to listen to me, because the abuse of what I said was what I was talking about, not that the Slovenian government was letting itself be abused, but the European Union, and I wasn't even talking about which beard. As a biologist, however, I would like to warn you that when a snake bites its own tail, it can also die because it has no antidote to its own poison.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u188	Thank you. And I saw a colleague named Aurelio Yuri sign up for his word. I'm asking you, on behalf of the proposer?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u189	On behalf of the proposer. A brief replica of my colleague Grimes. Even when he assigns some unrest to the applicants in his performance, even in opposition to the arrival of natural gas in the northern Adriatic, because he mentions energy policy, and when something unloved happens to us, we may be blamed. We have made it clear that all three countries bordering this pool agree on a common energy policy and on common energy routes to find the most suitable locations where we will meet these needs, at the same time, to protect our environment and our security.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u190	Thank you. And, as previously said, the fellow Member of Parliament, Drago Koren, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u191	It's been a long debate today, a lot of things we've heard, a lot of things we've heard over and over and over again. On Friday afternoon, at the urgent meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space, I must say, I thought the debate at the time was very constructive, very good, that we made very effective use of that afternoon time and we also cleared up most of the stuff. Therefore, the Committee's proposed decisions are also good and have also been very well accepted. Many of the proposed decisions have been unanimously adopted and I think that this is what is most important. Surely, we are all completely united on the issue of the danger of these gas terminals. The only difference between us today is how quickly the government reacted, whether it was fast enough or too slow. We will obviously stay here on two shores, but it is true that this is a matter where politics needs to be unified, but it has to be unified about the content itself. That's what I think we've been doing today. The content is one thing, and because it's an interstate thing, it's right that we really have. It is only up to us to vote on the proposed conclusions and thus give our government a mandate to continue leading the matter in such a way that no Slovenian and Slovenian woman will be afraid of what will happen in the northern Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much. You were the last Member to be declared in the debate, Comrade Drago Koren. I also have an announcement from the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposers. At the same time, I would like to remind you that as the same time, the time that has been taken into account by Members and Members and representatives of the government and the proponents for the consideration of this item will also be taken into account in the context of the explanation and discussion in connection with the conclusions tabled. Minister Podobnik has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. So the debate is slowly closing. I can tell that she was comprehensive, that she was extensive, so a lot of words were said, and many times things happened again. Since I have been very involved in developments in recent months, in the whole matter, I can say that some of the essential new positions at this meeting did not come on the day, but I would like to express from this positive point of view the expectation and first conclusion that, after a long time, the topic related to the Slovenian Sea has come to the agenda again in the National Assembly, and we would like this attention to the issues that are also related to the environmental dimension of the Slovenian Sea and the North Adriatic in particular, to be present at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and we are looking forward to this as a government. The fact that we have some principled and continuous focus on environmental sensitivity, all that is related to the North Adriatic, I reiterate, is also evidence of last year's proposed and adopted law on the proclamation of the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone. The environmental argument was also deliberately proposed at the time, and it was certainly not speculation, but content. Today, this law also increases our credibility when we make environmental arguments. I would also like to point out with regard to the procedural matter that environmental law is subject to international law and is increasingly subject to European Union law. Countries enter into relations in the environmental field in different ways, and in any case the fundamental principles of international cooperation still apply. In all these months, I believe that the government has acted in a coordinated, well-coordinated way, the Interdepartmental Working Group is working intensively, and there is still much work ahead of it, and we will continue to work in a credible way and also in an internationally professional manner will be those who will be bound by all the actions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u194	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar and Aurelio Juri later addressed the discussion on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's true. The meeting is adjourned. Perhaps some of the concluding thoughts of one of the candidates, colleague Yuri will probably add something else. First, I'd say a word, two on the subject of the very session on necessity, unnecessary. Some voices were that this meeting was not really necessary. That the government is doing so well that it makes no sense for Parliament to deal with it. More than in the undertone, we have even felt that even too much inflatability of this matter may harm the government's efforts to solve this problem. I think that the sitting itself and what happened at the time of the call for an extraordinary meeting to this day have already given an answer in itself. And this answer is that this meeting is necessary, regardless of what the government says, but this meeting has encouraged the government that it cannot be overlooked that reactions have begun at diplomatic level after the call or at the call of this meeting. The government says it would otherwise. We can believe her or not. Question: Believe it or not, the question of proof. But Emperia knows what is true and what is not true, but I would say that it is also important that we today have clarified one question about the stage in which these projects are taking place, the environmental impact assessments are being carried out, Slovenia is not involved, and this impact assessment is being carried out on the assumption that there are no cross-border impacts. The conclusions that have led to this are, in my opinion, good, and that is also the result of this meeting. If it were not for this meeting, these conclusions and these conclusions would not have been the case and this would have been bad for Slovenia. That seems important to me. I'd say two words around the terminals. Why the terminals here, why in the North Adriatic, what was said before. Those who look at the map of Europe will know that the Adriatic Sea penetrates deep into Central Europe. The goal of any such oil or gas merchant is to bring this energy as close as possible to the ship’s path and thus to the north of the Adriatic as possible, but how. At the microlocation, this is clear to everyone, for the sea terminal, the Italians withdrew to the settlements and the population and to the sensitive area on their side by pushing the terminal to the maritime border with Slovenia. They've done exactly what I've said many times before, and it happens a lot. And it's the kind of thing that needs to be responded to. I would like to say something else about comments on what has been said today, I could say that Minister Podobnik is actually relying on the inter-departmental report for most of his activities, so a few words can also be said about this. I have read this report of these experts from the government and non-governmental sectors, here a copy, in detail. I have read at least some or the most important basis for this report, and it must be said that what it deals with is relatively qualitative. But these experts, too, stop at a certain question - we can't say about it because there's not enough data, that's not what we're talking about. It's clearly neglected, like seismics. And I have already warned the Minister that a special report on seismic safety should be made. There is a high degree of uncertainty about the quality of data, as has been said. Above all, it must be said that there is something missing in the report, namely a thorough legal analysis of the situation, a comparative analysis of Slovenian and Italian legislation as regards interventions into space. There is no doubt that Italy's legislation, as far as intervention into space is concerned, is due to a different and diverse misunderstanding. The differences between planning and implementation planning, as we know it in Italy, are obviously not made in spatial planning. Therefore, environmental impact assessments also take place slightly differently. As regards what has been said from an external point of view. The outside of the matter - I just have to say, when I listened to my fellow Minister Ruple, at first I believed or at first I thought that maybe in the morning he had mistakenly changed his papers and was actually discussing the vision of Europe's future energy development, very important. But then I just realized he's also talking about terminals. Here we have to say, Europe is in a huge energy dilemma. The dilemmas are scarier and worse than they seem at first sight. And one of the answers to these dilemmas is also the clear question of diversifying suppliers and sources of energy supply in Europe. This includes natural gas, which comes from other sources and cannot come on a land path to Europe. And this is a completely different story than the story of gas and gas pipeline from Russia. Some pointed out that today the Slovenian delegation went to Russia. I wish her much success. Some people think he's going to do business. I hope he goes into business, and I hope he doesn't come back without a job. [[The ad in the hall.]] I hope that it goes into business and that without a closed business that would start to work it will not come back - Mr Jerovšek, if you need a repetition. Above all, I do not think that the other potential pipeline from Russia has replaced what our foreign minister mistakenly thinks of imported gas across the sea into potential terminals in the northern Adriatic. And of course that's not an alternative. On the contrary, these are two competitive sources, to which Europe so swears. And it must be understood that any other pipeline will have no impact on the construction of these two terminals. As far as the conclusions are concerned, the conclusions of the Government have been repeatedly referred to. I told the Committee on Environment and Space in my comments that the government's conclusions were good. They have only one large, important flaw that the conclusions of this government are being announced on 25 May 2006. And that these conclusions indicate something that we've been alerting the government to for two months. In other words, I believe that they are correct, but even I think that they may give little or no tasks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is only a type of postman in these matters, if I may say so, but an intermediary, in our opinion, should play an active role. Finally, let me say something else about the Committee's conclusions that have been adopted. With the exception of the third decision, which states that the government has responded appropriately, which we cannot support and will propose a different decision, I think the other conclusions are good. I think they are very important and can contribute to Slovenia's continuing role as it can play and must play. As for this third decision, whether it has responded properly or not, we have made a lot of arguments and we think it is not, but there is more or less debate on last year's snow for the past reaction. It is more important that we agree today on conclusions that are proactive and allow the Slovenian Government to properly represent and represent the vital and legitimate interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u196	Thank you, colleague Gantar. I would also like to invite another candidate, Mr Aurelia Yuri, to the floor. However, honourable Members and Members, I ask that they pay more attention to the speaker and listen to him. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u197	I, too, will respond to all those concerns of some of the colleagues who wondered whether the meeting was necessary today. And in proof that the meeting was urgent and inevitable, I will only elicit one proposal of conclusions, which will probably receive support, given that it has received support from the parent body. The decision to call on the Government to require Italy to return to the baseline of all environmental impact assessment procedures. If we had taken a similar decision with a similar content a few weeks ago at an extraordinary meeting of the Environment and Space Committee, such a decision had been rejected, unfortunately by the coalition, we would probably not need this meeting today. So, if we accept it today, I hope that it will be adopted, on a committee that met on Friday, a consensus has been reached, of course, the meeting of the National Assembly will be fully justified. It is right, however, to inform you, colleagues and colleagues, that, in the context of activities against these terminals and for the establishment of a common energy policy in this area, one will be an interesting one in Piran on 5 June, with the prospect of a conference or an international forum on the subject "for the euro area below, for the sustainable future of the North Adriatic", organised by a number of important nature-protection organisations and movements from Slovenia, Italy and Croatia, among which we find both advocates and opponents of both terminals, which in particular wants to establish the concept of joint coordinated planning, use and development of this space in all its aspects in the partnership of countries, countries, municipalities, professional institutions and civil society. This is a concept that we have already discussed, which must be pursued by all those who already form a series of agreements and recommendations between the European Union and Euromed, i.e. the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, which must also be referred to by Slovenia below, deepening and conditionalizing dialogue on the issue of gas terminals with Italy. I hope that there will also be some useful guidance from this international forum for all the governments that rule here, and that perhaps one such concept will also follow the institutional level. I will also look forward to the adoption of today's conclusions, which will certainly give a few more mandates to the government, and I expect the government to take advantage of them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the conclusions. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the two amendments tabled today, the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group under point 1 and under point 2 of the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. As stated, I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to the first decision. Who wants a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Since I see Members and Members coming to the plenary room, I ask all those who are in the lobby to join us at the moment of the vote. In short, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to the first decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party Group, the amendment that we have proposed will also be supported. Last but not least, I am very pleased to be able to explain my voice to the amendment, so to what some in this Chamber [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u200	Comrade Zagorac, if you'll excuse me. I'll do it in your honor. If Members and Members and Government representatives do not calm down, I will suspend the meeting in 15 minutes. It's your call. Comrade Bajc, please refrain from your comments. Comrade Bajc, last warning, refrain from commenting. You're on, Comrade Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, again. Thank you, too, Comrade Bajc, for calming down so I can continue peacefully. I must say that I am very pleased to explain what some Members of the largest government party consider unnecessary, strange and, I don't know, how much more, but I believe that the amendments to a certain proposal for a decision of law or any right and also a description of parts of the tasks of each of the Members. Why did we choose such an amendment in the Slovenian National Party? Most of you, or the government coalition, feel that this meeting is completely unnecessary today because the government has done everything. It is we who have tabled this amendment to appoint someone besides the government, because we do not trust it, not mainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not so much the Ministry of Environment and Space, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose minister comes from the largest government party, that he has done nothing. Anyone who claimed otherwise was deceiving the public because today was a television broadcast. What did he do? He sent a diplomatic note, and that's it. He did not take advantage of any of the opportunities that this so-sung and beautiful European Union offers in your opinion. My friend Pojbicz laughs at me, but if I ask him now, my friend Pojbič, if you will answer my question, I apologize for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u202	Comrade Zagorac, we are in the voice-explanatory phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u203	I apologize for the debate, but it is sad to see him laughing while he does not know what the institutions of the European Union are.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u204	Comrade Zagorac, second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u205	Someone said we had no argument. Is it possible that the argument that there are too little arguments for you in the northern Adriatic following the pipelines? I think that these are very good arguments, that such an amendment should be supported and that the government and others should be in charge, above all, of the European Members, that they should do something for Slovenia, because that is why they were elected. We will support the amendment by ourselves and our colleagues from the SNS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u206	Thank you. Vote explanation, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u207	In my own name. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today the National Assembly has fulfilled its duty irrespective of its substantive broad debate. The proposals for conclusions we have are substantively uniform, which is right. I stress that the National Assembly has done its job, expressed its national interest and handed over the baton to the government. The Government is obliged to act from this moment forward if the conclusions are to be adopted, in a two-way manner, bilaterally in the interest of the State of the Republic of Slovenia and compulsory multilaterally at the level of the European Union. The Council of Europe, the European Council and the European Parliament operate in the European Union. In this we have our Members who have been elected by the Slovenians and Slovenians and who are obliged to highlight the interests of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, especially on the basis of the current content of subsidiarity, the transfer of rights, the compensation of rights and the acquisition of legislative and enforcement authorities. Slovenians and Slovenian Parliament and Slovenian parliamentarians in the European Union need to know what this means. I am convinced that this amendment is the only real amendment added to the proposed conclusions and also the only excuse for Slovenians knowing what we are talking about. If we consider this content bilaterally and if Europe forgets it, then I am very sorry, very sorry, colleagues and colleagues, because the result of today's work, I hope that only the gas terminal near the Slovenian coast will stand still.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u208	Thank you. And a Member of the Commission has signed up for the explanation of the vote. Can I help you, in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u209	I'll do it on my own. Of course, I would suggest that Members of the ruling coalition support this amendment, because, in fact, this amendment says exactly what we asked representatives of the government in the debate. When the government is in any document for the meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee - since the coordination of representatives of the Government of the National Assembly and of Slovenian Members is called the Committee on European Union Affairs, but a special meeting can be convened, but this is every Friday on the basis of a law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, which the Committee on European Union Affairs has placed on the subject of planning, construction, operation of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, any position of ministers, the Secretary of State for European Affairs or, God forbid, the Minister for Foreign Affairs when they leave for meetings in the European institutions. That is why I think this proposal is only a formal commitment, I hope that the chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr New Slovenia, will convene the meeting on his own, but it is certainly welcome that we also expect and demand such a meeting here. And on the basis of this meeting, in the framework of the European institutions and in particular the European Parliament, let us open a debate on these issues, as the amendment's proponents say, in order to avoid unilateral moves by individual countries. I will support the decision or amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u210	Thank you. Voice explanation, Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me just remind you, and only if you want, of the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union. May I remind you that this National Assembly is the institute in our country that provides guidance or guidance to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in those matters when we speak or are acting within the framework of the European Union. And on this basis, I ask and appeal to you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u212	Thank you. And Member Anton Kokalj applied to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I think that given the very extensive debate both on the Committee and today, and the matter that has been dealt with both in the media and in government structures and in Parliament, and so on, that such an amendment will not solve anything, of course this is more political marketing. As regards the EU Affairs Committee, it is true that the government has not sent a call or a point of hearing at our meeting, but we know that, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the rules of procedure, opposition parties can also propose such meetings, but to date you have not done so. The options are open. Once you have done so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will convene a meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if we find that the proposal is suitable for consideration. Therefore, in this context, I think it is unnecessary to burden this discussion with what our committee could do. It is certainly up to you Members to initiate and propose what you can do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u214	Thank you. Voice explanation, Comrade Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment alone. If it were to be said that we would invite, as one of the predecessors said, the European Affairs Committee to convene this meeting and talk about it, I would support it, but not so. But to you, Mr Vice President, I suggest you remember another name, not just mine, but leave it out as needlessly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u216	Comrade Bajc, everything depends on the individual Member, how loud he is, and you are one of the louder Members, and you logically make a stronger noise even when you are not invited to speak. Explanation of the vote on your own behalf, Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, chairman. As I have already said, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. However, I would expect the President of the Committee on European Affairs to know the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly. At that time, this amendment would not seem so unnecessary to him, since it says well that the National Assembly gives guidance to the government on what its policy towards the EU should be. And as a possible reinforcement and in order to facilitate decisions, especially by coalition Members, on whether they will vote in favour or against this amendment, I must say that your beloved leader has arrived happily in distant Russia and, among other things, declared that Slovenia is getting gas from several sides, but least of all from Russia. And if it manages to agree on bilateral strategic cooperation between Slovenia and Russia, the terminals in the Gulf of Markets, which do not mean any argument for you, and the biological disaster that follows in the Gulf of Markets, will not mean any argument, they will become of secondary importance to it. It's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u218	We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the third decision. Who wants a word? Comrade Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. This amendment to the third decision. I hope that you will then allow the vote on each decision separately, which will be very important. Our amendment is intended to fully replace the current decision, which we simply believe and believe has been successful and consistent in proving that the government's conduct so far in the case was not appropriate, while this decision, which was proposed by the committee, which we have also proposed on the Committee of the LDS Club and the opposition did not support, says that Slovenia has acted appropriately, or even somehow, that the conclusions are appropriate, is somehow trying to cover up the story of the relevant decisions, with appropriate conduct and so on. However, we feel that our decision is more in harmony with the truth and the situation in this area. We are pleased that the government's responses have been better recently, which we have already stressed, precisely because of this meeting. Of course, we do not expect the coalition to adopt this decision, but we believe it is more realistic. At the same time, I say that this may be a less important question than that, namely, that other conclusions are such - and I hope that we will adopt them - which will bind the government to a more appropriate and decisive course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u220	Thank you. A colleague of Barovic signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u221	On behalf of the Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u222	My apologies, Comrade Barovic, my mistake, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is no longer available, so I will not give you my word. Does anyone else want to participate in the debate on the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group? Comrade Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u223	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members. Of course, we will support the amendment because we have proved the government wrong all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u224	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to the 3rd decision. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Barovic, on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u225	Thank you very much. That we won't be hairy now, because the amendment is telling the truth. Colleagues and colleagues, we were 90 percent of us, when we said we were going to Europe. Europe has instruments, Europe has legislation. And the truth is written a little more flatly in this amendment. Be reasonable! We are looking for justice in Europe, where we are an equal member, not slaves and subjects! Support this amendment as we will in the Slovenian National Party. We have absolute rights within the framework of the three institutions of the European Union, with their six Members who have a five-year mandate there and must represent the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not want an atomic or gas bomb near the Slovenian sea and Slovenian territory! Support him as we will in the Slovenian National Party! And believe that European legislation is not our national legislation or that we avoid relations at the multinational level. 25 countries will talk about it if we say yes. But if you say no, everyone will be quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u226	Kolga Barovic, everything is fine and well, but we are at the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u227	If you have invited me, I apologize, I write nicely, I apologize, I have the right to "use all mechanisms resulting from the European acquis and international conventions". I think I made myself very clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u228	You're absolutely right. We proceed with the explanation of vote. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nevertheless, I would require a 20-minute recess before the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u230	Thank you. At the request of the National Party parliamentary group, I will order a 20-minute recess, according to the explanations of vote. Someone else wants to explain their voice. Comrade Squeakle, Comrade Gulic. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u231	In my own name. The proposed amendment replaces the text of the ruling coalition, which states that the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to protect the environmental security interests ensure all appropriate further steps. I only had one question today. Who by the government can assure us that there will be no terminals? There was no answer to that question. Therefore, the decision of the National Assembly to allow the Government's conclusions to be safeguarded is simply not a reflection of today's facts. If you support this decision, as proposed, without supporting the amendment, then there was no need for this meeting, because the government has already reacted appropriately, but today we have heard that the Italians do not even recognise that there is a cross-border influence. Therefore, the amendment and the text, which states that so far there has been no appropriate and timely action and that all the mechanisms, especially the mechanisms within the European institution, need to be applied, are the only possible solution. So far, the government has worked, we are now in the National Assembly, and now we are all working together as the Republic of Slovenia within the institutions of the European Union and at a bilateral level with neighbouring Italy. To say that the government is doing just fine will simply mean on that side of the border that the National Assembly is satisfied that the government has done everything necessary so far. However, you did not answer the question whether or not terminals would be available. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u232	Thank you. Vote explanation, Comrade Gulič. Here you go. Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will support this amendment because it does speak of the government not doing everything. I am not prescribing to the government that it did this on purpose or with any malice, but that it did not do everything it should have done, probably because of the historical experience it had against the Italian space. We must be aware that everything that has worked in the Italian space over the centuries has actually pushed everything that has been bad to our borders. Here we can remember the devastation of Crassus, Istria, then in the 19th century transfer of all industries to Croatia, the figs were then placed largely just to protect their own. The current selection of locations also discusses this, they protected their Grajež and Tržič, or Grado and Monfalcone, and pushed everything so that the influences will, of course, reach the Slovenian side. So, it's something that's clearly planned, and if, of course, the government hasn't missed it, we can actually read it. At the same time, of course, we support it and demand that, of course, it also respects such requirements. I think that this is all very well and that, of course, we can work together and work together because we are giving an accent to everything that the government would like to do very late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u233	Thank you. And also to explain the vote, a fellow Member, Branko Grimes, has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will not support the amendment, because it is in the opposite direction from what I was talking about at the beginning, this is reaching consensus, which then has a greater weight when it comes to the exercise of our common interests. Here it is, in the domestic sense, about attaching an internal political pot to a topic that is important, which is still of some relevance. Personally, I am very happy that this meeting has taken place, but translated into Slovenian, such a conclusion that the government has done nothing would actually mean what - what has it not done? Italy didn't declare war. Thank God it's not that we have a government that respects some European standards and human values! And because we have such a government, it is also right to take reasonable action and, of course, adopt conclusions that also follow these human values and international standards, and such a committee has also drawn up. I'll vote for them myself. This amendment, which would represent a foreigner in these conclusions, will of course not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u235	Thank you. Voice explanation, Comrade Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. In fact, if we look at the fact that the procedures for the land terminal have been very active since October 2005. We have data that since then, the land terminal has been fully entrenched with an investment project that is in the process of obtaining consent since the Conference of Services in Rome. We have statements by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which are still in March 2006, say five months after that, that it is a business project that is relatively insurmountable and so on and so on. Not to mention that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been constantly discussing this issue with Mr Ricardo Ill, who is the Prime Minister of the Land, but of course he is not a representative of the federal authorities, and it is also necessary to say that the country government is 10% also an investor in this enterprise project. Thus, in some ways, it is clear that the procedures so far were neither timely nor timely, nor were government representatives talking to the right people. However, from this point of view, this amendment makes sense and, of course, I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u237	Thank you. Vote explanation, Comrade Aurelio Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u238	We will also support the Social Democrats' amendment, because we have been proving and trying to tell our colleagues and colleagues that the government has done something, but has not done it in time and properly. This is followed by an amendment. Otherwise, we will find out what the effects of the government's actions so far and also of our joint action will be. I will be pleased at the moment when the Minister of the Environment in Italy informs his colleague that the procedures for assessing the cross-border impacts on the environment are returning to the starting point, that he will invite him to the talks and will finally sign a protocol that will be the main text for further joint negotiations. Until then, unfortunately, the only positive signs are that for one month the time taken to obtain the opinions of the affected congregations has been extended. There are no other specific circumstances that would satisfy us. And from this title, I am assessing today that the government's conduct so far has not been timely and appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u239	Thank you. Voice explanation, Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u240	Thank you very much. With effect from 1.1.2007, European environmental legislation which is subject to the principle of subsidiarity shall enter into force. Or if I say domestically, it is that this legislation will be in charge of national legislation. Let me remind you that European environmental legislation does not apply to villages and villages, but applies to 25 and 1.1.2007, when it enters into force, to the 27 Member States of the European Union, in particular at the level of interstate relations. If the Republic of Slovenia does not alert the Council of Europe, the European Council and, last but not least, the European Parliament and the President of Finland in the first half of 2007, not all the institutions in question actually have a legal basis for assisting the Republic of Slovenia. At least that is what I expect you to know, my fellow Members and colleagues, that Parliaments can participate at the level of European government institutions in the adoption of general decisions at COSAC or only partially in Parliament. I would like to invite you to consider and take advantage of the status that Slovenia has within the European Union. I'll support this amendment. And we took a break to get you to think about it, and I believe you're going to insist.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u241	Comrade Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, I will be happy to support the amendment, because today's debate has shown that the government has had some serious difficulties mainly in responding in a timely manner. Even more clearly, the debate has shown that the project, which has been under way in Italy since mid-2005, has not received adequate responses from the relevant services we have and are paying dearly in Italy, which would alert the government and all of us to the conduct of what is being prepared so that we can act more quickly and more effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u243	Since I no longer see the desire to explain my voice, I will order a 20-minute recess, then there will be no more explanation for the vote. So, I'm adjourning until 6:35. Until then, good luck to all the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u244	Dear Members and Members! We continue the interruption of the agenda. Please take your seats. I'm asking my colleague Zagorec if he'll present the position of the 20-minute council? Then we will wait for the Members and Members to sit down until you have a word. Thank you. Comrade Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. I hope that all those who oppose this amendment have benefited from the break and have been able to read that they will not say again that we have something difficult ahead of us. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will support the amendment, as proposed by colleagues from the Liberal Democracy. We will support him because he follows what we have today as a green thread or a red thread drawn throughout the day. It is said that the government of the Republic of Slovenia, the foreign ministry simply did not do enough to protect the Slovenian sea and Slovenian people living on the Slovenian coast. The fact is, colleagues and colleagues, that it is only this Parliament that can represent the interests of the two million people living in this country. The second fact I must say is that the amendment of the Liberal Democracy includes, to a certain extent, the amendments of the Slovenian National Party on the use of the institutions of the European Union, and not least the Slovenian Members, to solve this very pressing problem. Last but not least, it is important to point out that you, fellow Members of the Union, may also be reminded that Slovenia is paying enormous, billions of dollars for membership in the institutions of the European Union, and I think if not now, then I do not know when this time has come, when some of these memberships, or of these institutions for which we are paying our membership fees, must also be used. I am very sorry if the members of the ruling coalition think that, at a diplomatic dinner, our foreign minister mentioned to his Italian colleague that three fishermen on the Slovenian coast are afraid of what will happen when the terminals consider it sufficient diplomatic intervention by the Slovenian government. I'm really sorry. Here you have the opportunity to show your knowledge and your concern for the Slovenian coast. Finally, it must be pointed out that the only government in the Republic of Slovenia is the one that protects the interests of this country and those people who live here in the European Union. It's just the government. And if the terminal happens, it's the government's fault that something bad happened to them. And you will take this blame, all members of the ruling coalition. And if you think that by taking over power or leading the European Union in 2008, you will be able to tear down the gas pipelines already standing up, then you are very wrong. Then you will have to force yourself or otherwise justify their existence. Last but not least, the basis for solving this government's European policy is to take it as advice, very well-intentioned, to save new gains and not build on old offenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u246	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Decision No 3. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I find that the conclusions are fully adopted. This concludes this agenda item We're moving to 2. At the time of the day, it is up to the President of the National Assembly to decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law on amendments to the Higher Education Act, EPA 848/IV, to be adopted after a reduced procedure. The College of Presidents decided at its 62nd meeting, on 12 May 2006, that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure, should be considered following a reduced procedure. Within 5 days of the decision of the College, a group of 23 members with the first-signed Dr. Slavko Gabrom requested that the decision of the College be decided by the National Assembly on the basis of Rule 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the College's decision to consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to Dr Slavko Gabru's request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Signatory and the Signatory led to a very simple fact. There are many people in the professional public as well as within politics who think that it is necessary to take more time to change the law on higher education and think about it thoroughly before we decide to make certain decisions that will have long-term consequences for Slovenia. Let me remind us all together who are the ones who believe that more thought is needed at this point. I refer to the Higher Education Council on purpose, because this is the institution that advises the government in this country and in all major decisions indirectly to this National Assembly. Both Slovenian universities, the rector of the University of Maribor, the President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and other important people who find it difficult to assume that they do not know what to call the higher education service. These people are proposing that we take our time and think carefully about how we will regulate one part of the legislation in the area of higher education. Especially us, and that probably can't surprise us. They're calling all three universities. They say that we should not rush and report that the law is not in harmony with them. And last but not least, it's probably not against us to be invited by students and students of this country to do the same. What's the simplest thing? It is entirely possible that we will make a wrong and too quick decision to compare the diplomas that people in this country will receive by the programmes that were adopted there by mid-2004 and those that will be obtained by the programmes adopted after that date, i.e. by the Bologna. There are two dangers. We can either underestimate and cancel the Bologna addresses or underestimate and devalue the diplomas we have acquired so far. It's not a simple matter. If I had to propose a solution to this moment myself, I wouldn't trust it, and I think I know too little to propose it. I propose the simplest way to support what is before you, that the Minister, the Council for Higher Education and the entire body of partners and partners, from the economy, through universities to the university, get a chance to think seriously and propose to us in the legislative process something that will be coordinated between them. If not, the risk is very high. Somehow we're dealing with terminal three if not as dangerous as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-29-SDZ4-Izredna-18.ana.u248	Thank you. Therefore, there is no debate and no explanation for this request from the Group of Members, so we are moving on to a decision. I propose to the assembly that they decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure." In doing so, I inform you that if the national assembly does not adopt the decision, the proposal for a law will be dealt with on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the assembly will deal with this proposal of the law following a reduced procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice day ahead. Good luck.
