ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that he has been detained and that today's meeting cannot only be attended by Member Rudolf Petan, until 1 p.m. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day - this is a second defence proposal for the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Act. I'm informing you that 3 hours and 45 minutes are foreseen for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation, mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! The main objective of the proposed amendments and the completion of the Social Protection Act is to improve the current situation, in particular towards greater rationalisation of expenditure, public expenditure, better control and greater fairness in the allocation of financial social assistance and, of course, to improve control over the use of funds by beneficiaries of exceptional financial social assistance. For recipients of monetary social assistance, the proposal introduces the following key changes: more effective promotion of unemployed recipients of social assistance for greater work for all who are able to do so. Thus, the recipient of the aid is obliged to accept any employment or employment offered to him by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment in accordance with the rules on employment insurance in the event of unemployment. The impact of work is multilateral, aid recipients maintain working habits and contacts with the environment, gain work experience that may be useful for later possible normal employment or the conclusion of a working relationship in similar parts and tasks, improve social inclusion in society and can contribute to general social benefits through work. The bill removes the receipt of cash social assistance after employment, i.e. when employment is already concluded and, of course, it is understandable that the recipient receives a salary for his work at that time. The law improves control over the use of funds by beneficiaries of exceptional financial social assistance, in particular as regards the adaptation of evidence demonstrating the use of funds, this was also the Court's observation that the legal basis is insufficiently established. We are improving the system for obtaining control data from the recipient, beneficiaries of monetary social assistance for a longer period of time, which is the basis for an effective exchange of data between public records. The social work centre is allowed by this law not to grant aid or to grant lower aid in cases where they find that the applicant’s social assistance was merely a fictitious application of his own household at the same address as he had already been staying. The law introduces the return of financial social assistance if it has been paid as a substitute form of aid for waiting time for solutions on the second right that is imposed before financial social assistance, such as a cash compensation for the period of unemployment. Under the existing law, then a person would receive aid from two titles. We are also changing the single payment subsidy scheme into a monthly payment method that will prevent and limit potential abuses or simplify recovery procedures that may occur if the single payment system continues to exist. As a result of the Constitutional Court's decision, we regulate maintenance for a child whose maintenance reaches or exceeds the minimum income, thereby providing livelihoods and thus stipulating that the family's entitlement to financial social assistance is not taken into account. The proposal removes the transfer of the local competence of the procedures for determining the eligibility of financial social assistance for individual family members, for which the Ministry has now delegated competence from the social work centre in which it has its registered permanent residence to the social work centre after the applicant's permanent residence. The second area concerns the question of a family assistant, which was also the decision of the Constitutional Court and, of course, the necessity to regulate the law in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. This procedure shall ensure the participation of the municipalities. Funding of an assistant is regulated in a way that also applies to the financing of similar social security services, such as home-based family assistance. The decision to be eligible for a family assistant will now be decided by the specialised disability commissions in the pension and disability insurance institutions, thereby ensuring a higher level of expertise in the decision-making process. The law also introduces the purposeful use of funds, namely to trigger and enforce the rights to help and service, which has so far been at rest since the present law. In fact, this will reduce the obligation to finance a family helper. The law also provides for the refund of funds to those municipalities in which the financing of the family assistant will exceed 0.35% of the eligible spending of the congregation. Professionals will no longer need to determine whether the selected family assistant could be considered an unemployed person, as he will have to provide proof of this to the employment and unemployment insurance institution. The right to partial payment for lost income shall be bound by the date of enforceability of the decision recognising the right to choose a family assistant and no longer by the date of application. The last chapter of the amendments concerns institutional protection in older hospitals. With these changes, we ensure immediate inclusion and protection for those who complete acute hospital treatment, but the health situation still prevents them from living alone or due to adequate protection rights cannot be provided in institutional social protection. Such institutional protection shall be of a transitional nature and shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Social Protection Act and in accordance with the law adopted by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs, disabled persons as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to welcome everyone here. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Protection at its 17th regular session on 29.6.2006. Representatives of the proposer with Master Janez Drobnič participated in the work of the committee in principle, a representative of the legislative and legal service, a representative of the social society and a representative of the community for the protection of work centres. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal of the law in question and has also made specific comments to Articles 2, 9, 22, 23, 30 and 37. In its opinion, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia expressed support for the law in question. The amendments to the bill were tabled by three coalition groups, namely SDS, NSI and SLS, the DeSUS Group, the Social Democrats Group and the Liberal Democracy Club. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the Committee members, with the active participation of the Social Chamber of Slovenia and the Community, paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 2, 4, 23 and 30 and to the amendments tabled in Article 2. The representative of the DeSUS Group announced the withdrawal of their amendments, as they were convinced in most cases by the applicant's arguments. In the debate on Article 2 of the proposed amendment law, the DeSUS Group withdrew the amendment on the deletion of the article and proposed an amendment to the committee by which the obligation of municipalities to implement the family assistant would be passed on to the country, but the committee did not accept the proposal. Some discussers expressed doubts about the proposed solution to the Constitutional Court decision concerning a family assistant that could trigger a wave of new constitutionality initiatives. According to some, the applicant did not take into account the provisions of the Constitutional Court, since the municipalities do not co-decision but decide on the centre for social work. The representative of the applicant said that the Government had respected the Constitutional Court's decision and that the municipalities were taking part in the procedure for issuing an opinion and the Centre for Social Work decided in the preliminary procedure. In the debate on Article 4, this introduces a delegation of powers to exercise the rights of a family assistant from the special commissions to the disability commissions in the institution for pension, disability insurance - a misunderstanding of the proposed solution has been expressed. The amendment, which would at least allow for participation in these commissions, also to the representative of the competent centre for social work, was not accepted by the members of the Committee, as the representatives of the proposer stressed that the solution followed the comments of the municipalities, which were not satisfied with the work of the previous committees. The debate held in this Article of the amendments tabled was focused primarily on the question of the appropriate justification or justification for rejecting the proposed employment of recipients of social money support. Some discussers did not agree with the solution in the draft law, which provides for the automatic loss of the right to financial social assistance if the beneficiary does not accept any employment offered to him by the employment agency. In their view, the abolition of this right requires extreme caution and, above all, it is necessary to regulate and tighten surveillance so that abuse in this area cannot be born. In the discussion below, the main focus was on Article 30 and the proposal to delete it, since some of the debaters disagreed or had an unacceptable set of professional workers who could provide individual services in the field of social protection, including university graduates according to the bill. In their view, the university programme of theological faculty does not meet the requirements of social protection work, but is already very unemployed with appropriate education and therefore there is no justification for the applicant. The drafter further clarified his proposal. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 2, 22, 23, 36, 37; it did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group of Members, the LDS; the other proposals became irrelevant and adopted several of its amendments, which are included in the amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you. The Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 17th meeting, and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendment of 10.7 this year. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you. Mr. Secretary with a fellow Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In both the general debate and the debate on the working body, the Social Democrats said that we have a number of comments on the proposed law. I am not saying that nothing small of what we have proposed has been adopted, but the amendment to Article 2 has certainly been linked to the topic that Minister Drobnič referred to in his explanation, which reminded us that certain matters relating to the family assistant are also regulated in the law. It is precisely to regulate this area that concerns the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, which takes into account the fact that the Council of State has repeatedly expressed its position that when the National Assembly adopts laws imposing new obligations to be financed from public funds, the National Assembly should not transfer obligations to local communities but should provide funds from the State budget. This is also where the Member's proposal to say so, the Family Assistant Act, which was withdrawn from the procedure, was, at the time of withdrawal, promised that the State or Government would draw up a proposal to regulate these matters in an appropriate manner. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the opinions of individual local communities, which must be attached to the law at all times when it comes to issues for which the local community is responsible, are also clear from these opinions that local communities are just pointing out that the financial obligations for municipalities are too great. Therefore, we believe that in the fifth paragraph, in which the speech on the ability of a disabled person to pay the contribution to be paid by the debtor in order to arrange it in the same way as it is arranged to help the family at home. We agree with that and we have not responded to that either. However, we believe that the difference referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article should still be covered by the State, not by the municipality. We have tabled such an amendment, and we expect that, in line with several expressed positions, support for this amendment can also be obtained in the National Assembly. At the same time, allow me to express my support for the amendment tabled by the DeSUS Parliamentary Group because we believe that they have taken another step forward and have also regulated this competence in Article 6, where it is the same: jurisdiction from the municipality is proposed to become the jurisdiction of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much. As an introduction, we have supported a number of good solutions in this law in our parliamentary group, but we have also supported a number of amendments that have been tried at individual points to complement and correct. Of course, we advocate that an amendment which we have tabled ourselves and which does not speak of anything other than that the State should pay for the services which it itself accepts and imposes on the municipalities, that is to say that this amendment is remedying something that the Constitutional Court has also said by its decision, and the law now fully disregards this constitutional decision. In order to know why it is going, let us first remind ourselves that this service was introduced in February 2004, that the service - assistance for the household assistant we strongly support is a good service, but the implementation of this service is wrong or unconstitutional. We immediately warned about this within the community. A number of ten congregations have agreed and supported the law tabled by Members and Members to remedy this weakness, and we must say that the Ministry's response to our marriage at the time was inadequate. He was talking about the fact that the law was not appropriate, he was talking about the fact that there was no reason to change the law on social protection regarding the family helper, and he gave two reasons for it. The first one was supposed to be financial, and it was written in brackets that the state didn't have any money. Other reasons, however, should be substantive. The essence of this refusal of the Ministry of Labour was, on the substantive side, that it was not actually a new service at all, but that it was a substitute service. So we Members resisted and the Constitutional Court later ruled on this. If the ministry had listened to the proposal of MEPs and Members at that time with several benevolents, the problem we are now talking about would have been long-saved and the Constitutional Court would not have dealt with it because this problem would have become irrelevant. But they would say: Irresistibility and, in my judgment, even the arrogance of the Ministry led to the constitutional court having to decide and decide. Let's see what the Constitutional Court has to say. The Constitutional Court rejected the arguments made by the Ministry of Labour and these were that there was no new obligation. The Constitutional Court said "is a new obligation". The Ministry’s view was that it was just a substitutive obligation, and the Constitutional Court explicitly stated that it was not a substitute obligation. The Ministry claimed that the State could not assume the obligation of municipalities, the Constitutional Court said that the State had imposed its obligations on the municipalities. The Ministry argued that there were no grounds for the transfer of funding to the country, even claiming that the municipalities were surpluses and that they were spending social money. All of this was rejected by the Constitutional Court by its own pronunciation. Let's see what the Constitutional Court has to say. First of all, the law is unconstitutional. Article 28, paragraph 1. This, I believe, is now no longer to be discussed, this is also recognised by the Ministry, and has therefore drawn up a new law that, in whole or even in most cases, cures past weaknesses, but not entirely, does not fully follow the decision. So the first paragraph of Article 28 is inconsistent with the Constitution. Secondly: the Constitutional Court imposed on the Ministry to remedy this non-compliance by January 2006. Until now, the ministry had not said anything about its delays, nor had it excused them, nor did it seem worth telling them why it was late, but in the meantime, of course, the congregations paid for these services and were further injured. Thus, even this period was not taken into account by the Ministry, and this law is unconstitutional in that article and in that paragraph because the State with the new powers did not simultaneously and adequately regulate the financing. That's what the Constitutional Decision says. And secondly, because it did not allow the state to co-decision with local communities, it remained so until today. Even in this law is so, in the law we are talking about today, proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In addition, the Constitutional Court stated in the explanatory memorandum that the State saves on behalf of the family assistant at the expense of the municipalities, and it stated that, I repeat, this service is not a substitute service for institutional protection, which was the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs' chronic argument. All arguments cited by the Ministry were rejected in the Constitutional Decision. The Ministry later admitted these errors because otherwise they would not change the law. It would not take into account certain provisions laid down in the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the proposed law does not, in part, cure all weaknesses, but not completely. In my judgment, the Ministry is also making an unusual argument now in explanation, but if the services provided by the State were paid in full, then this would constitute an unacceptable centralisation of the power of the State. So that's how the ministry understands centralisation. Decentralisation is for the Ministry the process by which we impose the payment of state obligations on municipalities. Of course, we cannot accept this, not the Member and not the Members, at least a large part of it, but in particular I do not think that any of the Slovenian mayors or mayors can accept it, none of those who know how to finance local communities. We therefore propose that our amendment be supported, accepted, only means that the country will pay the obligations it has imposed. This would, of course, mean more, but it would be even more true if our previous law were adopted, less complicated, less administration and less spillage of "bypass", the transfer of resources from the country first to the municipalities and then from the municipalities to those carrying out the relevant service. Unfortunately, I do not wish to speak too hard, but I think that the Ministry is in a position to insist on this in its positions that it is economically inadmissible not to take the arguments into account, it seems to me that it is not wrong to say that it is even arrogant to our arguments, which are also confirmed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The DeSUS Group will vote in full if this amendment is supported today, otherwise it will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much. See how incompatible the mayoral function is with the Member of Parliament, we are witnessing right now when we listen to the gentleman of the honourable Member and at the same time the mayor, who is actually willing to overlook only one part and not support all the good solutions that are indisputable in this law. He has already admitted that things are good, except, of course, these, from this article 4, which we are discussing now or as a family helper. I think that the family assistant governed by this 2004 law has been improperly arranged, and we all agree. However, in order for the government to try to do something according to its options, we must finally admit it. At that time, the assessment of the use of this option was greatly underestimated, and we all know that there have been some 300 cases, which now exceeds 1,000 requirements. The new proposal grants the amount of aid and services received by the disabled person to the municipality, the disabled person and the survivors shall co-finance the family assistant up to their capacity to pay. Only if the difference is added by the congregation, which, even this time, has not been highlighted, can write down the property right to real estate; and we are simply dropping it and not saying anything about it as if all those who are here without some real estate would probably not hold it. The condition for the status of a family assistant is either the unemployed person or the person who leaves the labour market, and this new proposal makes these matters increasingly difficult, which we have not stressed and said enough. The choice will be decided by the competent centre for social work on the basis of the opinion of the disability committees of the ZPIZ and the municipalities will add their consent, otherwise it cannot. The original proposal has also been substantially amended here. I don't think there's gonna be so many family helpers who just grew up like mushrooms in the rain. In the opinion of the parliamentary group, the law is not flawless and follows its purpose and satisfactorily solves the cancer wound of municipalities - the financing of a family assistant. The proposed regulation also satisfies the constitutional court's requirement. In fact, we must not forget that appropriate consumption has been increased in the past year and the increase is expected for 2006 and 2007. This increase, I'll say, since there have been congregations, there hasn't been any increase. Now it's the first increase. We also spoke in this national assembly, and this increase is also a boost in the rescue of some congregations in the rescue of a family helper. And we all forget that, and we don't want to take that as an argument. The municipalities shall only cover the missing difference to the full costs of the family assistant provided that the disabled person does not have real estate. For those municipalities where the cost of a family assistant is more than 0.35% of the eligible expenditure, the difference will be borne by the state. It's also a security guard nobody wants to talk about. Of course, everyone would, especially, believe me, the mayors, want more. We would like the state to assume the whole obligation, as proposed in this amendment, which would certainly not be the easiest, and I wonder why the existing law has not solved it. Some of the candidates of the existing law would certainly be able to say why that was not the case. I am sure that the Minister would not insist so strongly and for so long if sufficient budgetary resources were available for this purpose. However, it seems very irresponsible to me that some feel that we must resolve everything with this law at this moment, even though there is no real basis for it. Let's face it. We will not support the proposed amendment in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you. The word has magic. Franz Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you very much. A family helper is the right or solution in this law, which allows many people to stay in their own environment instead of going into institutional protection. I am convinced that such a solution is beneficial and good especially for caregivers who can continue to live in a home environment that is already in itself often functioning healing and relieved of the pain they have to endure every day. The solution, as proposed by the amendment to this law on the resolution of this right of a family helper, is good, but unfortunately, when this right was adopted, just over two years ago, there was an assessment of how many beneficiaries of family helpers or how many people would use this right, then there was an underestimation of this problem. Worse still, it seems to me, until the unequal application of this right by individual congregations. As a result, some municipalities have invested significantly more money for this right than others, and the state has not allocated any more money to them because this is all included in the appropriate spending framework. While the State provided funds to some extent at the time of the introduction of the family helper, some congregations, as I have already mentioned, were significantly more burdened by the unequal use of this family assistant. Until the introduction of the Law on Family Assistance, the municipalities financed the provision of a social security service for personal assistance, which was provided in the framework of 2004 or after the calculation of the Ministry of Finance in 2004 around 670 million and 0.74% of the eligible expenditure. These funds remained for the purpose of financing the family assistant to the municipalities and the State took over the financing of personal assistance. The arguments of the municipalities regarding the increased burden of financing a family assistant in individual municipalities were already heard by the state or government at the rebalancing last year, when it raised the appropriate consumption by 10% and 7.5% real, the same is true in 2006 and 2007, when this percentage was 4.5%. And I have to say once again, the solution that the government is proposing is by no means ideal, but I'm sure it's good. It is also good because it has been coordinated with the representatives of the municipalities, representing representatives of the municipalities. This solution, I'm sure, is of a transitional nature. And so it was agreed, at least that's what I'm aware of, between the government and the congregations. The final solution, but I am sure, must be known in the law on the financing of municipalities, and I think that this is the only possible way to solve this problem, is in the context of the new law or amendment of the law on the financing of municipalities, where a comprehensive solution must be given, not only that, but also the other problems. However, we will not support the amendments in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you. Comrade Rezman, do you think you were misinterpreted in the debate by your colleague Rudi Veršnik? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you. Not only was I misinterpreted, but some of the untruths that I have to disprove were mentioned, but this should be done by the proposer, because some of the things that were claimed do not appear in this proposal, but I will do it instead. I would now now ask that we no longer defend old solutions, because not only were we Members and Members and many municipalities against, the Constitutional Court has said. Why are you arguing with the Constitutional Court on the surface now? It is necessary to simply adopt this decision and implement it as the Constitutional Court has ordered, and there is no debate here. Whoever wants to argue about this probably doesn't understand the legal order in our country. Another time. I'm not protesting because I'm mayor, and I'm not protesting because the congregations want me to, I don't know how much money, maybe even more than they deserve. I protest for what I have also stated because the Constitutional Court decision has not been fully implemented and the law will now be constitutionally disputed in at least two points which I have mentioned. And I'll do it again. One such is that the congregation does not co-decision in any way, and here I have to deny the claim that this law brings co-decision to the congregations. No, no, no. He's not bringing it. This law allows for an optional opinion, as stated in this law. They can give an opinion, which is optional, and the optional opinion has never been strong before. An optional opinion can also be postponed, nor must it be read, which is why no one can protest in particular. We don't even know what's going on with this casual opinion. We are therefore also protesting that a CSD representative has no right to sit on a committee that decides, but can write a recommendation that someone reads or does not, but cannot participate in the debate, cannot take part in the decision-making process. So this law remains constitutionally controversial and this must be clear for those who have read the Constitutional Court decision. However, I seriously doubt that everyone has read it, in particular that they have read it at the Ministry of Labour, which even refers to a constitutional decision when rejecting the amendment. What the Constitutional Court has said in its decision is wrong, which the Ministry referred to, is now considered to be a chronic argument and sold to us as truth, even though this is denied in a constitutional decision. Next. Therefore, the congregation does not, a respected colleague, give any consent, it can only give an opinion. Read the Law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u15	Comrade Rezman, the replica is time-limited, you've exceeded three minutes, so please, if you finish or I have to take your word. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u16	If I may just say one thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u17	Comrade Rezman, you can sign up for the debate, it was a replica. Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much. First, although I did not intend to talk about it, I would have reacted to my colleague Rudi Veršnik's claim that we are mayors, who are Members at the same time, that there is chronic evidence in this law and in our debate around the second amendment to Article 2, that this is a chronic proof of the incompatibility of the mayor's and the MP's function. Mr. Veršnik, when your party president orders you to run for mayor, will you then say, "Yes, I will run, but will I no longer be an MP?" That's the only question I'm asking you. And I don't think this is about who tells you what to do, but when you're a Member, you represent all the Slovenian voters and voters, when you're the mayor, you represent voters and voters in your congregation; and you don't have a direct relationship with each other. When we talk about amendments to Article 2 of this Act, we are talking about local self-government, the state's attitude towards local self-government and the fact that, according to the European Charter on Local Self-Government, the State is responsible for the additional tasks assigned to municipalities or provinces, we will now have a very current area of the province too, that the State is obliged to provide those funds that municipalities have to devote to some additional task to which the State is committed. In this case it is certainly an eclectic case, we can call it a school case, as you have said about our incompatibility, when the country does not comply with the European Charter in local government, we ratified it to warn you, and when the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not adhered to. Well, in that case, he just can't hold on. The claim that a family helper is only a compensation for a personal helper is, of course, twisted from a vine. In fact, the State has also avoided its obligations to pay the costs of carrying out the duties of a family assistant by committing the disabled person and his or her compulsory dependants to pay as much as they are able to pay, saying that what he or she devotes to that disabled person is already simply a matter of care and service or, as is already called, that duty or that payment which the State makes to the disabled. He doesn't actually give up money there, but he just redirects it for another purpose. Part two, that's what the state should pay for, because the disabled themselves or its supporters are not able to pay, but hang the congregations, of course. So this is not about us as mayors defending something that the state should do on the basis of what it already says in the constitution, but is further confirmed by the Constitutional Court's decision. I think that at least what is wrong is that you want to show us in this way that our role in this country is not, when we talk about the incompatibilities of functions, that it is not moral. I think that this is an exaggeration and in order to be indebted, Mr Veršnik, which I must honestly say to you, I very much appreciate that we should apologize a little, to all those who are mayors and who are in favour of these amendments. I believe that, at least, what is involved in this area is the payment of the difference by the State. By the way, I'd like to mention this. As mayor, I will now say, as mayor, I have no objection to the book on real estate, the owner of which is possibly a disabled person or a treated person who has the right to a family assistant to book a country. I must tell you, Mr Veršnik, and to all others, that having the right to inherit property on the basis of the fact that a person of public law is paying the costs of, say, care at home or, in this case, for a family assistant, there is no special blemish of God. In order for this value to be gained by the congregation, it must do a great deal of work and not talk about what might happen to us, that even past the law the court decrees that we do not have the right to inherit and that this is simply fruitless effort, where public resources are not reimbursed. It is therefore necessary to know, however, that all the funds that the congregations provide for the various individuals are for the assistance of all of us living in the congregation, that this is not an individual egoism, but that it is only right that the congregation, with the money entrusted to it by its citizens, has the masters as it should be, and even in this case, when it comes to the sharing of costs between the State and the congregation, should know clearly what is the duty of the State and what is the responsibility of the congregation. The Constitutional Court has told us this and it would be appropriate for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to stick to this in its legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you. Replica, colleague Veršnik, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Well, I would immediately say, Mrs. Pecanova, that I am actually sorry if you have understood me as much as I have just heard from you. I did not mean it underestimatingly or anyhow, but I understood from the first interview of the gentleman of the distinguished colleague of the mayor that he did not speak as an MP, but rather as a mayor, narrowly directed, because he said, if we do not accept his amendment, the law sucks, we will not support him. I mean, this is a narrow view for my opinion, and I understand that the mayor, I understand that he represents the mayor's position, I understand that, but we are here in the National Assembly, we must also have a minister in charge of the budget, who can promise something that, if he has somewhere to go, from this point of view. Otherwise, I'm sorry, I'm actually sorry if you've misunderstood. With regard to running, Mrs Pečanova, I have to say that I have made sure that I will not have to run, because from the start I have realized that a double function is a difficult function and that I am not ready to accept, and therefore there are methods by which things can be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you. The debate was opened by Minister Drobnič. Here you go. [[No, no, ……]] We continue the debate. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! My colleague Veršnik doesn't have to apologize to me. I understand in part because I also say that he is partly right, but in such cases, when it is given or given to us, some who are in a double function, that a little in a different tone, if I may say so, we are discussing and exploiting each other's functions. But that's all I'm going to add. I think it is a good thing that there is another Member in this National Assembly to advocate for local communities, but not directly those laws or those decisions or those adopted in the National Assembly, which directly concerns local communities, in large cases, directly or indirectly of local communities. I'm a little surprised when some of you explain, the Constitutional Court has issued a decision on the basis of a constitutional court, one hundred percent of the case being resolved. I don't think that's the way it is, and the ministry has prepared a solution that has really solved this issue of some sort of 70, 80%. The rest is still open. We can ask a lot of questions about why this 20, 30% is still open or why this obligation will always remain on the shoulders of local communities. I have already discussed in the general debate how the most reckless solution is the one that is already missing at the start. And what my colleague Capudar had previously explained was that these 300 potential users had been misjudged, the legislator then imagined that this would not have been a major mistake. The error was whether the greatest error was that the distribution of these users was reflected in some catastrophic imbalance. And now imagine that there is no family helper in one congregation, but there is a congregation that has an appropriate consumption of 300 million, and there is no family helper in the other, which has really happened in practice, and I know that there are five, six. This means 10 million extra burdens. This is a great punishment for such a local community that it cannot or did not foresee. And it would be wise for all of us today to acknowledge that only when it is decided when an obligation is passed on to the local community or as it has been passed on to the local community, if it is an obligation that is relatively tanning all 193, now 210 congregations, would I somehow understand that an obligation that is even unpredictable in one congregation and another is indeed an unreasonable decision. I did an analysis or comparison of how I tried to explain the matter in a way, since we also co-finance or pay for caregivers in homes that do not have resources or that do not have other resources to pay for them. But you know that this is somehow quite proportional to the size of the municipality, the number of people in Slovenia, is almost evenly distributed. I want to tell you, one of the arguments that this solution has substantially deviated from all other tasks, obligations or final stages, if I may say, the solutions that have actually been given to the municipalities. And in such cases that the task or problem needs to be solved, I very much welcome the solution of the Ministry of Labour, the Minister, that we have only managed to draw up today such a law as I have already mentioned, and in 70.80% only transferred the obligations back to the country or from the municipality to the country. I am firmly convinced that there are no such funds in the 2006 budget, they are not in the state budget. I've asked you to report for discussion so you don't jump into my word. And once again, the solution is good that after a year, two years of bitter debate on these obligations from the position of the congregations, there is only one solution that is far more beneficial for the congregations than it has been so far, so I will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would first like to answer the question raised, which was: Why did the previous law not solve it? If I hadn't sinned before, I wouldn't have been discussed today. But the previous marriage was bad, we did not accept it, except for some who were sitting here at the time, and we warned that it was bad. The Constitutional Court was then warned, and it must be reiterated that the law adopted by the former authorities was an irresistible defence. When we proposed a change, this power, this ministry, this government defended it as a world. Only now, after, let's put it this way in terms of the rebellion of the Constitutional Court was the Ministry of Labour ready to admit that the previous law is weak and that with the new law of this weakness we have to slightly correct, as my friend says, 70% to 80%. Some others, however, feel that everything needs to be fixed, not only 70% to 80%, but the unconstitutionality needs to be corrected. The Ministry of Bodywork does not have the resources to do so. You know, as it has been said, others do not have the means to pay for this if they receive new assignments just as, in large amounts, even significantly higher than has been said. One of the congregations, Brežice, received more than 50 million additional burdens last year, but it had no effect, no codecision, others decided, and they had to pay. This is unconstitutional and is not being resolved today, so we are not fully satisfied with this law. Appropriate spending, I would ask you nicely when you talk about appropriate spending, to talk about those you know about it, not just talking about appropriate consumption, but what this appropriate consumption means, but not what tasks we should carry out, but how much we got with it last year. Let me remind you that last year the same people said that the municipalities were financially sub-capacitated by 30%, and that is why we intend to amend the law on the financing of municipalities, not because a family assistant or household assistant appeared. Not these things, I'd say, simplify and mix. That is not the case, the Minister also admits that when it is signed under a text which recognises that it is only a transitional solution, that it is not the right solution, but they are trying to measure some. But they're gonna find the right solution. The right solution was last year on a table in a single sentence in the law that we proposed to MEPs and Members, and the thing would have been saved, only one sentence had to be changed, and now we're staring at that sentence, we just don't want to write it all down. With regard to the fact that there is no point in rejecting the whole law because of one unaccepted amendment, I must explain that I have not spoken before about supporting some other amendments, not only that which I myself have proposed that some others should be taken into account and I am giving them support, but the argument that I will not support or vote against this law is that this law is still unconstitutional, but that if it does not give the municipalities or, in short, it is not consistent with the constitution, this tiny detail, this 20, 30% non-constitution of me, maybe someone else is easier to pass on, but I think that it is wrong, also 20% of the unconstitution should be eliminated. And let the state stop saving at the expense of the municipalities, as ordered by the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that a number of questions have been raised as well as a claim that needs to be addressed. First of all, the fact that this law, you have said it yourself, is bad, is unconstitutional and does not encourage people to work in the first place, especially those who are able to work. These were also arguments why the Ministry of Labour entered into the amendment before it was determined whether this law was unconstitutional or not. The government's plan was to change this law. We also knew that the family assistant was improperly arranged, so all those claims you mentioned earlier did not want the ministry, not true. The fact that the law has been harmonised for a long time is a notorious fact. For more than half a year, eight months we coordinated with municipalities with different views, at least one part of the mayors, before there was a final agreement. There was also a need to coordinate inter-sectorally, with stakeholders and more. You're not going to say it's easy. If you ask two people on the street whether they agree on something, they will tell you that they are different opinions, that is difficult, people also have the right to express themselves in this regard, but it is also a responsibility when we receive something or contribute to such solutions or not. So, these were the basic intentions of why we went after this marriage. The law, which says it is not being fixed now, is being substantially corrected, essential. In the process of selecting a family assistant, the participation of the congregation is ensured; you cannot by any means allow the municipality and the state to issue a decision on the same matter. It will be difficult to issue the same thing with two decisions, which is the opinion. Second. The specialised disability commission at the pension, disability insurance institution, in order to alert citizens to the fact that they are not sufficiently professionally qualified, we have called or proposed disability commissions that have the greatest tradition and have a lot of expertise in this practice to make decisions as undisputed as possible. For the family helper refers to persons who are seriously affected by health problems, and on this basis also to the need for other forms of assistance. What you are mentioning is that the country has only re-examined the aid and service allowance. No! No! Under the existing law, which is now in force, they cannot benefit, this right is at peace, and this law triggers between 20 and 80 thousand a month. That's the truth. Read the law. Isn't that helping a family assistant from 20 to 80 grand a month? Is that it? I think so. After that, the refund on funds to those municipalities whose co-financing of a family assistant exceeded 0.35% of the eligible expenditure. That, too. On the basis of the discussion on the family assistant, the budgets of the municipalities have never been so increased by the state budget. It is also the decision of this government to help the congregations. The right to partial payment for lost income shall then be bound to the date of enforceability of the decision. This will also contribute to the arrangement and assistance of the congregations. Allow me, there is much debate about this or that it should be taken to the country, because it is more, I don't know, far away and that it is to the local communities. Ultimately, honourable Members and Members, all of this is paid by taxpayers: either through the country or through the local community. It is right that funds are collected at local level, because they are more direct and there is a greater impact of local communities, but in the end this distribution is only done on the basis of redistribution, because there is no distribution if there is no redistribution. If you do not accept the law, which is your decision, you will leave an unconstitutional situation and, secondly, it is difficult to do so in the congregations regarding the financing of a family assistant. All these changes provide significantly higher revenue to municipalities by the State, as the aid and service allowance comes from budgetary resources or indirect budgetary resources. These changes mentioned in the law are strongly supported by people - 80%. That if you are a recipient of social assistance and you are able to work, then accept employment, you owe it to her, that's how solidarity is. If I am paying now, as you are paying, in the budget to cover social benefits, then you can also expect that if someone does not have a job to accept humanitarian work or something like that at that time. Participation of congregations. So these are the arguments that are saying in favour of correcting something that was originally designed for a good purpose, but they were not a good solution. There was also a lot of warning at the time, but let us not criticize back, but let us first accept solutions that are good. And solutions are good, they run counter, or they go in step with the municipalities, and they go in step with this modern approach to providing just social assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you. The word has a Member of the Breda Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u28	I just wanted to make it up to you in the light of some of my colleagues' previous discussions. When we talk, say, about the funds the municipality has been making for the care of pensioners' homes, it is necessary to know that this is an obligation that the municipality has had since the adoption of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. And these are the funds provided for in the revenue of the municipalities. On this basis the calculation was also made, not least if you remember, the number or percentage of the population over 65 years of age is also one of the criteria for the level of the municipal budget. To speak of the situation being partially rectified at the same time as the law is once again confirmed by colleague William Rezman, who says that non-constitution can't be partial or non-constitutional. It's unconstitutional or it's not. If it is 70%, it is still unconstitutional, it is said that this unconstitutionality must be eliminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you. Member Paul Rupar spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The government we have is organizing, if you want, to correct the mistakes that have happened in the past, that is a fact. It is regrettable that today I am listening to colleagues and colleagues who have been so vehemently supportive of these laws, which we then paid in the congregations years ago. At that time you did not all speak together for 3 minutes, today you do not talk much about how Petty Officer did not, what we expect, how the congregations still pay part, what they should not, how the state of stepmother to the congregations, how there is not enough money for these transfers and so on. Personally, I find this pointless and humiliating. I'll be honest with you. We are taking steps to make it better for helpers and disabled people to be better for the municipalities, but we are now demanding on all the beautiful radical changes, like the "Cresnoves in Serbia" - I do not know, it seems to me personally unfair and unfair from the colleagues of the mayors, who we forgot about when Dimovski brought this law into the National Assembly when we said it was a pre-election phase, for the nonsense that the municipalities are going to pay. This is pure truth, and historical documents show it. The adoption of these laws in this National Assembly. Today, as if - I don't know, we have such a government and such a minister now that he will destroy from people with disabilities to the congregations and everything - so to speak, to zero. Well done, Minister! You've written a good law. He's not the best. Nothing in the world is the best. You're not the best here either. Everything changes and everything goes better, but patience and step by step is what you miss. Which is lacking to all those who are in populism and in their own, I will say, even ideological persuasion and conviction have done differently than you now want. And I'm like Mayor Tržič. I'm glad that's the case. I am glad that you have taken this step of the congregation, and I am glad that as mayor of a congregation, I am still involved in helping people with disabilities and in facilitating employment for those who cannot, but have this opportunity as family helpers. I am happy, much more than I have ever been, and I hope that this law will be passed when we have to work all by ourselves, but I have had no influence to say who is entitled to this money, who is able to help, who can get help. In fact, help should be paid by the congregation, but you invented it in the Ministry of Dimovski earlier, in front of Petty Officer. Happy! And if that is possible, then - in one word - the congregation will have to participate. Maybe I just miss the slightly greater influence of some group, the municipal structure, which will also say otherwise, as it sees, let's say, it's some kind of social institution or whatever. I wish we could work together, and I wish there was more. And I am sure that if this is now the first step and if we have here a promise and some good gesture that it will be in the near future, I think that the forecast in six months has changed even more to the benefit of those who get help and the disabled and, of course, to the benefit of the congregations, then I am even more supportive. But today we have taken a small step, by adopting this law we will take a small step towards improving this situation, a small step for us, because we will only push the button, and a big step will be for the disabled and for the helpers. So don't hesitate and don't be radicals today, be patient and say, thank God it's better now, but it's much better now than it has been in the past. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you. We proceed with the debate. Member Willi Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much, again. Well, here and there, it seems like I'm hearing a sermon about a sin that talks about it, yeah, it's a sin, but it's small. You know, some of us think differently; some of us think that we should work wisely, that we should work rationally and that we should consider the decisions of the Constitutional Court as a serious decision and not an insult. I don't know why anyone in the back would think that the humiliating decisions of the Constitutional Court were, even the one that was unanimously adopted. No constitutional judge objected to that decision or wrote down a separate opinion. So there's no point in talking about it anymore, unless someone wants to apologize for their little sins. Look, now it has begun in the responsibility of the Minister some complications that I would like to help untangle. The minister says if you don't adopt the law, we'll blame him for staying unconstitutional. No, it is not our fault, we are ready to support the law, but we expect the Minister or Members to support any good solution that will improve this law as it is. And the Minister has been objecting to the removal of unconstitutionality all the time. It says, we can read, he objected to the amendment of the law that demanded the abolition of unconstitutionality. Next time. Someone said I wouldn't use names, because they pay all the taxpayers, and then it doesn't matter if it's a country or a congregation. You know what, then let the state pay for it - why don't you pull it together, Mr. Secretary? Pay everything if it doesn't matter who pays it, because it's always a taxpayer in the back - yes, of course who else does! And these basic things would already need to be understood, I think. The minister says it is a good country to offer assistance to local communities from 20 to 80 thousand. This is exactly the same -- now I'm going to say, really at such a very pragmatic level, I'm going to say -- as if the minister had been paid 300 grand, and then the next month I would have given him 50 back, and I would have told him to be happy because we gave you something. And I'm sure he wouldn't be. First, he took away the laws of the congregations and now repays them less than he took. Therefore, we are not satisfied because it does not fully remedy what it has done wrong. And something else about how to get the law started in time, prepared as if the battle was all in between, and also that sent-off law was so deemed unnecessary. It's not like that! I can tell you, because I also cooperated that when we were talking about social protection, when we were preparing a coalition contract, when we wrote it, when we wrote it down -- there were no letters about it, no one thought about it being an injustice. Later, congregations, mayors and some MPs warned of this. And that warning was rejected by the Ministry, at all times, irrevocably rejected until the Constitutional Court told the Ministry that it was wrong. Then, too, the ministry had to keep away and partly correct the mistakes that had been committed before and that the government had been determined to maintain; of course, because it was at the expense of the congregations. So don't be surprised if the mayors noticed that and don't mind if there's a mayor here. I have, too, voted against being compatible with the functions of the mayor and the MP, but I find that there is nothing wrong with anyone here who knows what is going on in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When the new social service of the family assistant came into existence in the previous term, I also cooperated properly and honestly in the creation of this, and many of the dilemmas arose at that time. But I didn't pull the curtain - and now life has begun for me as well as for my colleague Rupar. Minister Dimovski or the previous government did not do anything stupid, but it did a good social correction in its substantive approaches. First, allow the disabled to remain at home in their environment, to relieve expensive institutional protection and to enable the unemployed to be actively involved as an assistant. All of this was a good solution, and no nonsense at all, Mr Rupar. And there was also no pre-election populism approach, given that we all know each other, what kind of populism is happening over the entire term, it doesn't burden me. But what I mean is, it was a good solution, and it's normal for her to be new, even though so many and so many inquiries have been made, courting the field. In practice, however, it has been shown that this service has been adopted in a relatively progressive manner, which is good. It is said that the purpose was good and fair and right from every serious government is, and this government is also serious that the current secretary has come to correct what practice has shown in the implementation of this law. And thank God he's here and he needs to come! And the basic purpose of this action has improved! And it will also be fully credible, without burdening each other, by the National Assembly. And "sumu sumarum" will make marriage with this novel even better than its purpose. But I mean, it's not stupid, and I'm not burdened by it, because at the time, I acted honestly towards this marriage and even now. So it was a big step at the time, but now it is a small step from this government, but it is welcome and needed. But it's true that we're right. When we adopted this law or this social service at the time, the finance ministry served the minister and also the committee, when we dealt with this law in the National Assembly, with such and such justifications as were entrenched in the system of covering these financial burdens through a package of appropriate spending. I did not agree at the time, however, that they stop or that there is peace between the aid and the service provided by the State and the State budget to the PPIZ under Article 23 and then to the users. But that was the explanation and the same was the explanation followed by the current finance minister, who has indicators through the calculation package of the appropriate consumption of such. And we have accepted this, we have not been satisfied and it is good that this change has now taken place to activate these funds, which are essentially intended for the law of the person who is in need. And I accept this as a good and necessary solution, and I welcome the Minister and Government's approach to this action, and I think that we can all accept it as a good solution. Let's be honest, the progressive rise of this service was really incredible in 2005, this year's indicators, all those who have municipal budgets, you can see that this trend has decreased significantly, slowed down, that is to say, the offensive approach that the purpose of the law on financial salaries did not foresee, has calmed down if we now also calm down or balance the funding system - solutions as a whole is good and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Replica, Paul Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u36	I really need to take this, because my friend Brenčič obviously didn't know what I was saying. For content alone, helping people with disabilities, even through helpers, I never said that they were nonsense, but it was the duty of the congregations to participate. But I said it was stupid, and I'm still saying that Dimovski invited these people to work, to help the disabled at the expense of a third party. These are congregations. That's the stupid thing the Constitutional Court said. It wasn't me who invented it. It was the Constitutional Court. And I talked about it and nothing else. And it's very similar as if I made it up now to invite you all together to a veal roast today, but I would pay Mr Brenčič. That's bullshit. If someone's going to solve it, let's get rid of it. To take over these solutions today to a large extent by the Ministry, there has been great progress, since there has been no progress so far, so far we are the question of the Dimovian paying congregation. That's the truth. I'm glad we hired people, that disabled people also got this help, but I'm sorry, no matter what, except that we were paying the bills, and it's not fair and it wasn't fair, it wasn't fair to the congregations, and today we're taking a step to improve this. Last but not least, today will not be the end of the matter in the development of this, it will not. We are expecting a new law that I think will be even better than this, but I said: we are on the verge of this improvement and it is right that this happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u37	My friend Brenčič, you know I can't give you a replica on the replica, but I can put you on the list of applicants, which I think you'll be on your turn very soon. You have a procedural word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u38	The Rules of Procedure, respected by the Vice-President, do not prevent replication into a replica when statements are made in the replica, which are incorrect, which are unfair, which are criminal. And in this case, Mr Rupar's statement was entirely criminal. He made it clear: Dimovski brought this nonsense. This bill, which was passed by this social service, was a good proposal and, as a good proposal from the current government, which, according to the practice of the fact of this law, corrects what needs to be corrected. It's human, and there's no need for cynicism, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u39	Colleague Brenčič, last sentence of Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; the replica is not allowed unless the President assesses - and I have not assessed in this case, but I am still the Chairman. But since you signed up and decided procedurally, I had to give you my word. We continue the debate. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm sure we wouldn't be talking about this today if there wasn't a Constitutional Court ruling. It will also be difficult for me, as a Member of the previous call and of the current one, to convince me that this decision, which was taken during the time of Minister Dimovski, was indeed so good. She wasn't good, because if she were good, then there wouldn't be a Constitutional Court decision. This is my simple or, if you want, purely technical. And the current government and Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs are faced with the fact that they must come before the National Assembly by a decision in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. And I fully agree with him, as he said and have some here on my right, if what is before us today is not accepted, then it will remain in force what the Constitutional Court has concluded is not constitutional. It's strictly by law and by our arrangement. But when I listen to this debate here, especially the interesting debate of the mayors, on the one hand, on the other hand, I can hear that this is some kind of "pro et contra" debate. Certain mayors say that this solution is good for the municipalities to continue to cooperate, other mayors say: not that it is not good, the state must fully take over and pay for it and solve the problem as it was created. So, of course, we can agree with that, but the next conclusion is true. Whatever we pay in this area, we pay with taxpayers' money. Now, whether it comes from the state budget or from the municipal budget, in fact, it does not matter in the final sequence. We can increase the proper consumption for the congregations and tell them that you will be involved in this matter, that you will also bear one part of the responsibility and that part of the decision, or say, so much and so much will the appropriate consumption be less and it will simply be controlled, regulated, done by the state. If you ask me, and in Novi Slovenija we are more inclined by all Members to co-decision, even in this matter, even in the final stage, even if only with an opinion, and to give them some form of responsibility. For local self-government, however, should also have an impact on this important area. What seems to us to be a good solution is, of course, that this area of funding is also regulated in the same way as the rest of the areas where social services are concerned. For me to conclude. This amendment does not make sense to us at this time and we do not intend to support it. However, this decision will contribute to solving this problem, and at the moment it seems to us that this law is a good law, given the debate that we can listen to here, and that this solution will also be a good one and we will support it in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. This debate points to what we have long known: the great arrogance of the government, the minister, when certain things need to be reconciled either with the public sector or with the professional sector, but now this debate shows even when certain things need to be aligned with the position of the parties. I think that the discussion was with colleague Brenčič and colleague William Rezman 'cum grano salis' salt. I think that there have been good arguments and that colleague Brenčič has also defended what has been done in the past, and because of what we know, he gives an impression and he is also a great honest man in this debate in this Chamber. However, these things are avoided and this box is also used for certain pre-election talks. See, these mayors - and in the debate it was repeatedly mentioned in this amendment, the most evidence of the role of these mayors - the SDS candidate for mayor in Tržič's statement at Odessa 26.6.2006, when he said, "You can't believe what a big difference it is to be a member of the government party and at the same time the mayor, how much more successful you are in lobbying state money than, let's say, if this is contrary to politics." I don't know how ethical it is for the work you get as mayor, but even for the parliamentary salary you get half the mayor's salary along with it; it shows this statement, and it is also true that we know that it would be good to act like members of the national assembly here, but not as mayors of some municipalities, where, of course, we have to take their things into account, but at least we Members come from some municipalities, and we are also defending some of the interests of some municipalities. That is why I think it is right for the debate to calm down and remain on the arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you. There is a Member of Paula Rupar on the list of applicants. Thank you. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I just said, after my colleague Sok showed up, I have two words to say. I would like to see that we are a little more tolerant of each other in this national assembly, whether we were one before in the coalition and the other in the opposition and so on. In view of the Constitutional Court's decision, Mr Sok, there is no need for us to sit here today, the Constitutional Court's decisions would not have been possible if the existing government intervened more quickly in view of the evident problem arising from the financing of a family assistant in practice. That's why the parliamentary - mayoral law was created. And then, because nothing was moving, the community association, as a credible representative of the local communities, went to the Constitutional Court. And it's quite right that we have to do this now, but we should have done this before. However, since the current government, or this ministry, had exactly the same justifications on the part of financiers who defend the state budget as we had in the previous government, this did not happen. And let's be right and tolerant of each other. Only now, as I would say, did this stubborn position of finance ministers - or former or present ones - cut down the Constitutional Court and ordered the National Assembly to arrange it. And that's why we're here today to arrange and thank God, it'll be well arranged.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Aloys Sok, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Comrade Brenčič, I fully agree with you if this country had unlimited financial resources, then of course we could do everything that the opposition Members require and propose every day, unfortunately also some Members within the coalition. But I just want to remind you of one fact. The first rebalancing for 2005, which the new government had to draw up, showed that there were 70 billion Slovenian tolars missing in the rebalancing. Thus, the obligations that have been set, but there was no cover for them, in the fact that, of course, we must reduce debt and reduce inflation in order to take over the euro. All of this, I think, is that the things that need to be discussed in a broad way, what we should cover from the state treasury, take into account and discuss in this light a little bit, I would say, wider and longer, where we want to go and what we want to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u48	I do not accept the claim that if we do not adopt this law, we are guilty of unconstitutionality. Unconstitutionality has been established. Last year's MPs wanted to end unconstitutionality with their law. The minister and the government objected, thus prolonging unconstitutionality. They are now proposing solutions that still do not eliminate unconstitutionality. Let me read just one flower from the Constitutional Court's decision: "In determining a new task as the original jurisdiction of the municipality, it must be possible for the municipality to regulate at least part of the matter on its own, that is, the municipality must at least partly decide on the performance of this task." There's nothing about opinion, no cooperation, no decision-making, and the Minister won't make it happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you. First of all, I would say that I am pleased that things are slowly clearing up and that the situation has also changed in government coalitions. Indeed, the same Members who, in the previous term, adopted the unconstitutional laws that have now received the epilogue in the Constitutional Court are now abolishing and vehemently advocating the abolition of the unconstitutional acts they themselves have adopted. This is a very interesting procedure and a great deal of conceivability. But I said that I was glad that things were slowly clearing up, because that's right. It is true, however, that the whole problem is in the law on the financing of municipalities, which clearly does not specify what needs to be financed by the formula from which the appropriate consumption is calculated. There is one correction which also speaks of the proportion of citizens over 65 years of age and it is not really clear what should be financed from this. If a new task has been given after the adoption of the Law on Community Financing, then I also understand the Constitutional Court's decision and it is also correct that at least some criteria have been introduced by the Constitutional Court, by which it can be explained what is now the responsibility of the municipality and what is not. And I think that this bill is a step forward, but of course one law cannot solve the whole problem of funding municipalities or the financing of all the tasks that the municipalities have acquired in the previous term, and probably a whole bunch of constitutional disputes have been raised. However, this government was aware of this problem and, by increasing the appropriate consumption, at least partially burdened the municipalities that had been burdened unjustly with cases that now show constitutional decisions that had been made wrongly in the previous term. I am sure that there are still a number of constitutional decisions to follow, but with regard to the laws adopted by the mayors who are now sitting here, they were sitting here in the previous term, and they voted in favour of such laws, but they were silent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you. And the last one on the list is Member Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I am sure that, of course, a wide range of constitutional judgement follows, and I hope that - I do not, I am sure - it will also follow on the basis of the laws adopted by this government and this Parliament. Wait, people of God, so we can make any more serious laws. The fact is, however, that this government has already participated in the Constitutional Court's judgment on this issue, with the same explanation as the previous one, Mr Kokalj. Let's be right, let's be patient. The financiers had their argument and thus performed under the Mumor, under Dr. Bajuk. And I'll give it right. And we have not passed unconstitutional laws, my dears. The Constitutional Court is the one that then, judging, can also make a mistake, I could also say, be misled into understanding things, which is why we have it. And let's not be more papal than the Pope. The Constitutional Court will also judge after this term, you know, for the next time and thank God we have it. It is true, however, that in the previous term, some Members were also aware of the state's capabilities when Comrade Sok "fired" for four years with populist things on my committee, which had no real opportunity to finance this from the state budget. But it's perfectly normal, it's a matter of opposition, but then let's be so correct, let's not say: but now I was born again last December. No, it may be a little difficult sometimes, but you have to bite your tongue a little bit and life goes on. That's right, Mr. Bones and Mr. Sok. And it won't be any different when we may be in four years or whatever again in a different role, but people like that can't change into a different hair and into a different thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Kokalj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u54	I just think I'm Mr. Brenčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u55	Peace in the hall. He's got the word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u56	misunderstood or overheared part of my discussion. [[...]] I think that the matter has not been so badly thought out and I also hope that there are no criteria for a good and serious law that the Constitutional Court will at least partially annul it if I understand correctly from the context. Certainly, I would like to point out that this new coalition was aware of the problematic legislation and decision regarding the additional tasks of the municipalities in the previous term and therefore immediately increased the appropriate spending and tried to partially relieve the municipalities. And I think that was the right move. But I think there are still a lot of things on this segment that will experience the epilogue, as I said before - and Mr Brenčič, I don't know, I don't even know why I should bite my tongue. I don't know why. Otherwise, I've never changed my skin as far as this is concerned. If we had listened to what I said before, not as a Member, but as a second member, we probably would not have adopted such laws, which are now experiencing constitutional repeals or problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you. The word is given by Minister Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u58	I think I still owe an explanation on this decision on how to resolve this. I said in my previous reply that this is clear: this answer is relatively difficult to find, because on the one hand the disability commission and on the other hand the municipality decide. If we give the congregation exclusive rights, then we suspend the commission; if we give the full opinion to the committee, then the question is what is the opinion of the congregation. And in line with the Government's thinking and decision on legislation, such a solution has come. In fact, it's hard to decide the same thing without suspending each other, each other. That's why it's such a solution. The other thing that concerns is funding. I said, I explained which solutions that improve this law, which provide a more favourable financial position, are the right financial position for the municipalities. The realisation, the launching of the aid and service allowance, I said, at what level it is, this is an essential part of the means, an important part of the means by which it will now be remunerated, and with the appropriate consumption, which has already been partially done, and an additional provision of the law for this compensation, as set out in 0.35%. So these are the mechanisms that will ensure a substantial change in what happened before and also the implementation of the constitutional decision. Of course, it is also possible to discuss constitutional decisions. Everyone has the right, but the Constitutional Decision and the Constitutional Court are the highest in their judgment and their opinion must be respected; even if we have a different opinion, even if we have a statistical, mathematical or any other thinking. That's what it takes. I can believe that without any reservations this law can be supported, so, as previously said, why the ministry or the government does not vote - it is not in the role of legislative authority. In any case, you are Members, who are also creating amendments and who, in the final sequence, adopt the law in one way or another. I'm not telling you this with any intention or message. There are many complex judgments, and it is necessary to take account of them - from the Constitution and other laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you. She's a magician who signed up for the word. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u60	I would like very briefly to explain our amendment, but it is true that we are now talking about the transfer of obligations from the municipality to the countries, but Mr Minister has just mentioned the percentage of appropriate spending that is set. Social Democrats wanted this percentage to be different in line with the wishes of the municipalities, namely 0.25 - unfortunately this cannot be done. But I can't get past the committees that there's so much talk about. The delegation of power for a family assistant to decide on disability committees and allowing the Centre for Social Work to cooperate with its co-worker or co-worker alone with the opinion has been ongoing for the Social Democrats and is still unacceptable because it is not a matter of addressing the status of the disabled person and determining the degree of disability, but it is a matter of granting an assistant and there are still some social aspects that should be taken into account, but will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you. I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 2. I am putting to the debate Articles 23 and 9 of the amendments, namely the 2 amendments of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, the three amendments of the SD Group of Members, the three amendments of the SNS Group of Members and the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SLS. Who wants a word? Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Therefore, the content of the amendments we have prepared at the Liberal Democracy Club has long been bearded and follow our basic orientation that it is necessary to require recipients of monetary social assistance to meet certain conditions as an excuse to retain their right to receive this money aid. The suspension of payment of cash assistance must be coordinated somehow to sanction those recipients who refuse employment corresponding to job experience and acquired education, which is also comparable to the conditions for payment of such cash benefits in other European countries. That is why we want to make amendments - so we have tabled amendments that say that the recipient of financial social assistance must accept adequate employment. Now, the text of the law speaks of the recipient of monetary social assistance being obliged to take on every job, and here is a series of arguments that argue that anyone who receives financial social assistance would be affected in the event that he does not accept every job. I would point here to what has also been said today that this law is good to improve things, of course, in our view this law does not improve things at this point, but makes them worse. This also raises a question in terms of whether or not Mr Minister, given that you are saying that, for example, you will represent the positions of workers in the negotiations on labour law if the unions do not participate in the discussions. And here I ask the question, Mr Minister, do you really think that with such solutions, where people who have lost their jobs, who are recipients of monetary social assistance, who are not high and retains somehow dignity for very modest living their lives, and in this way allow you to make unilateral decisions in this law proposed by you who have not received the support of the unions; and the unions are amazed at your statements that you defend the demands of workers and appear in negotiations in the interest of workers. Of course, in our view, such solutions are certainly not in the interests of workers. And in our opinion, your actions should certainly go towards finding such solutions as to sanction those for whom you consider to be exploiting such a provision in the law, that they are recipients of monetary social assistance. We regret that you are not looking for a solution in this direction to tighten control and sanction those who exploit such assistance, and then by universal action you reach out to a group of people who are already at a very low level of social security in the Republic of Slovenia. Here it is set out how we will also provide the social state of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also justified by the constitutional provisions. We can already follow the debate on the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment, where we have to discuss whether inclusion in active employment policy is a fundamental right or just a right. We believe that anyone who has found himself on temporary or very short or even longer-term unemployment needs to be given a life worth living, and it is very important that dignity is maintained. And to understand integration into the active employment policy of employment plans and training as an incentive for an individual to be stimulated to search for a particular job. Therefore, we believe that measures will go in the opposite direction when they have to take every job. We therefore propose in the amendment that the law should be filled, that the word "appropriate employment" should be added and that, as a definition of suitable employment, we propose that this is the job that is appropriate for the classification of the job to one stage of the lower tariff class of the relevant collective agreement and the corresponding physical and mental capacity of the person referred to in the text of the law referred to in the previous paragraph. Therefore, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, let us reconsider whether it is advisable to support the amendments. The following is a series of amendments following similar solutions from other applicants. It would therefore be very useful to support such decisions, to inform all those who are currently unemployed and are recipients of financial social assistance, to understand their difficulties, to maintain understanding of the preservation of this, while at the same time giving them a message that it is very necessary for them to be themselves active in the search for employment, to want them to participate as actively as possible in the labour market and to accept work that will be one stage lower than the tariff class of the relevant collective agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. So solidarity, as I pointed out earlier, is that when you don't have a job, you get involved. Of course, we also come from the fact that every work is dignity. Will it be a violation of dignity if you offer someone a different job that is not best suited to his level of professional education? I don't think we should go beyond these things and go beyond that law. A worker does not necessarily have to decide on such a work. Apparently, it has other benefits, high enough, either from capital, inheritance or property that they have and that they can live with. And why, then, would a textile worker with 80 or 90,000 pay as a taxpayer for someone who receives all the benefits they receive from other titles, such as the unemployed, for example, 120 or 130,000? Here is the moral question of my solidarity and dignity. And the government stands firm in these positions and also the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia stand firm in these positions. As this is not compatible with trade unions, this provision is in line with trade unions. Trade unions later found that some trade unions disagreed with the extension of humanitarian work, which is considered humanitarian work, but agreed with this solution, as it is also a safeguard mechanism. If a person finds or considers that the work from a psychophysical point of view is inappropriate and inappropriate for him, he shall refer to the Commission and this commission shall decide. This comment, which was made both within the Ministry and in the framework of Members, has already been implemented in time. So it doesn't make sense to stress these things any more. In Slovenia, for example, we don't get 3,000 builders, 3,000 drivers, seasonal workers, we have a lot of unemployed people, but they don't choose to work, but they get high cash aid, of course taxpayers do. Then you will also have to answer the taxpayers' question whether we should then import 3,000 Slovaks or from other places to do this work in Slovenia. Of course, if no one decides and loses their compensation, then we will invite other workers to do the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you, you. Member Franz Capuder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Social Protection Act is intended to encourage the recipients themselves of financial social assistance to become more involved in the work process in a way that they are obliged to accept any employment that is not linked to their level of education or to the work that they managed prior to the occurrence of unemployment. At the same time, this novel proposes a series of good things, such as the preparation of active employment policy programmes aimed at those recipients, especially for the following purposes: to maintain working habits and contact the environment, to gain work experience that could benefit them in obtaining possible new jobs, to become more involved in society and to work with their own work in general social benefits. In the event that such a recipient of financial social assistance rejects the employment offered, of course, he loses the right to financial social assistance. In our Group of Members, we cannot support the amendments tabled by the LDS and the SD, which change this matter, so that the recipient of the financial assistance should receive an adequate job. We believe that the recipient of financial social assistance is a person on the verge of survival because there is not enough financial resources to meet basic needs. In the present case, it is the responsibility of the State to assist such a beneficiary. However, the task of the beneficiary, or individual, is to try to help himself as much as possible, is to take a responsible approach to his or her condition. And I am therefore convinced that such a person is obliged to accept any employment for which he is psychophysically capable and also in the employment plan itself finds that he or she is capable of doing such work. The current regime allows for an excessive degree of passiveness of recipients of monetary social works and works capable, and beneficiaries have been in the system of monetary social assistance for several years, which is unacceptable. It's not good for them in particular. According to data, there were an average of 62,000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance in 2002. And this number increased to 90,000 recipients in 2004. In 2002, 18 billion Slovenian tolars were paid for monetary social assistance and almost 33 billion Slovenian tolars were paid in 2004. And it is noted that among all beneficiaries of this aid, 30% of the long-term beneficiaries are, all of which confirms that these beneficiaries simply get used to this social assistance and simply do not seek employment. Maybe there's a logical explanation, that's what the facts tell us. It can be logical, but it can't be, any way you take it. Above all, I am personally concerned that there are more and more young people among the recipients of financial social assistance. In December 2004, there were just over 27,000 investors under 27 years of age, representing 43%, of which there were as many as 11,000 long-term beneficiaries. Some of these certainly cannot get a job, and some of these are likely to be "pashas" to receive financial social assistance and do nothing. All of this data shows that beneficiaries of monetary social assistance are dependent on this social assistance by extending their remuneration. I just need to re-emphasize it. And in our party we are convinced that the beneficiaries of financial social assistance are often offered a suitable job, let this be for a certain time, for an indefinite time, such casual work. However, it is obviously worth more, many times more, to be a recipient of financial social assistance. The supplement we adopted on the parental committee also prevents or reduces the possibility of bullying recipients of monetary social assistance, which has been highlighted several times in the first reading debate in this national assembly, as well as in the debate on the home working body. And we believe that the solution proposed in the present Article 23 is good, it also provides protection to the recipient of financial social assistance, while also ensuring that it is also helped in this way, that it tries to get a job and solve its social problem as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. You know, talking about this law today, or specifically about this article, can be a hell of a smart idea. But it's hard as hell, I believe that those who are currently on the stock exchange or employment agency have been reported as job seekers or unemployed. We have also proposed amendments in the Slovenian National Party, three amendments to the existing Article 23. In fact, it's only basically one word. And that's the word that's the guard. Safeguarding that those who are not on their own account without a job are protected to some extent. Today, we have heard, in the context of the previous article or debate on previous amendments, how sensible it is to make changes in sectoral laws, step by step. This change is very restrictive and far from one step at a time if you want. Otherwise, allow me to mention another anomaly under this open article, an important anomaly brought about by this law, which we wanted to abolish, was neither the will of the minister nor the coalition. You know, this law specifically speaks in the context of Article 20 even of the fact that recipients of financial social assistance can be deprived without any clear criteria. Taken away if these people live on the same title or live on the same address by permanently registered or temporarily registered persons with their own livelihoods, even though they do not live in the same household. This is, according to our assessment, contrary to other sectoral legislation, which, by the way, belongs to another department, this is the Ministry of Finance. I'm talking about the Income Act. I have heard that Members of this Parliament are equalising work for a certain time, work for an indefinite time, informal work. I'm going to say that, I don't know if people who come into a situation lose real contact with reality very quickly or are such good populisms or demagogists. I have even heard that humanitarian work helps to improve or improve work experience. I will say that I strongly agree with this, but it is necessary to say that humanitarian work in our country today is not valued anywhere, official and valued anywhere. Yesterday we listened to lessons about things that were not officially confirmed, not even valid, even though they had a legal basis. After all, why restrict, degrade student work? You know, these are issues that need to be cleared up and spoken out of the ordinary. Once again, because of a handful of those people who have used money, I hope you are aware of what monetary assistance means in terms of the amount of funds due to a handful of those people, in fact, it is not reasonable to punish everyone else so much and so much today at the Slovenian Employment Institute, which receives only and only money as the only source of livelihood. Allow me one more matter, Your Honor. We have also proposed this in the Slovenian National Party of the Amendment. This is the third amendment with which we have proposed that the third paragraph of Article 36b be deleted. This is the content that talks about the employment plan. According to our assessment, either the purpose of the employment plan together with the job seeker is to find suitable employment as soon as possible. Not humanitarian work, not volunteer work. I believe that the goal of every citizen in our country is to get a job in order to provide regular means of survival. If you look at the employment plan itself, what it contains, what are the principles of the employment plan and objectives, you will see that the content proposed under Article 36b, paragraph 3, is not the subject of the employment plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you. Already on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, this article has been the subject of many discussions. This is why I would expect the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to draw up at this hearing any other arguments, such as the reference to public opinion, that even those who are asked whether people in general think that the unemployed, in particular the recipient of financial social assistance, should accept any kind of work. It is easy to talk about how numbers move over the years between recipients of unemployment benefits and monetary social assistance. It should also be asked how other provisions have changed, how time-bound something has changed in order to get a complete picture, and why it would not be easy for recipients of money social assistance to throw all of them into the same hole, from which, without serious, well-established policies and aid, even countries will not be able to dig up easily because the European Union also reminds us that the problem of our employment or unemployment is structural unemployment, that it is a group of long-term unemployed people, that they are particularly vulnerable in these two groups to the same group of young and early job-seekers as well as those older ones. And now to these problems. We are working both in the case of the Employment and Insurance Act and in the case of the Social Protection Act to apply the principle of equality or equal treatment at least as regards rights or obligations, if you wish, to those who receive one or the other. We believe that the recipients of financial social assistance are at a disadvantage if, in the opinion of the legislator, they are obliged to accept any work. Therefore, with our amendment, which is here in the review under item 2, we propose that instead of "every job" the "appropriate" should be applied, and that "appropriate" should also be explained by the fact that this is the same job as that defined in the law of employment and unemployment insurance and in the case of the beneficiaries of the compensation, there are two lower rates. And now I know that for systemic solutions, individual cases can't be the cause, but they can be illustrative material. I have quite a few cases of my graduates and graduates who have accepted a significantly lower job than the one given them by their diploma. However, if you ask me, they enter the third decade of employment, and they are still in the same job because their desire to join the labour market has helped them to stay there for so long that they did not refresh their education, so that they could be well established in the labour market, so that they did not gain adequate work experience. And if I say that it was women and mothers, it makes me feel so much worse. Therefore, I think it is so important to insist that, in particular for job seekers, the conditions for admission are the same as those for unemployment benefits. It is important to ask whether our labour market really allows for good integration in the labour market for all highly educated people and whether the solution to grass is grass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you, you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, once again. Of course, first of all, I would strongly like to reject what is possible after the accident, or perhaps even deliberately said by the minister, that of course we support those who exploit and are not entitled to financial social assistance. Of course, by no means do we protect those who, according to your words, receive high financial assistance and are not entitled to it. Absolutely not. Of course, we are talking about the fact that everyone receiving financial social assistance is not the ones who are exploiting it, but the fate of life has led them into a situation where they are entitled to it. The question of Slovenian society is whether or not we will answer this question by making it possible for the people of the Republic of Slovenia to live properly, or whether certain measures will be taken in the opposite way. It is therefore surprising to me, Mr Minister, that you do not have precise data on such a change in such a law, to what extent do you estimate that there are such anomalies on the market or in those eligible for financial social assistance. To talk about it, to ignore structural unemployment, as has already been said here, and to talk about how when you start to spin around in several stages of lower jobs according to your education, to get references, to compete in your field tomorrow, it is completely wrong in my opinion. If you have to give your work experience in the job application, appropriate 6th, 5th, 7th degree of education, and you will mention them significantly lower, you will find it very difficult to compete in the labour market for the level of education you wanted and have also obtained it. And here it will become a enchanted circle, a vicious circle, where we will revolve around the educations that you are also referring to. You talk about builders today, you talk about drivers and so on. And I ask you, Mr Minister, do you think that Mr Capuder and I will be able to become unemployed tomorrow, given that we are preparing ourselves so that we lose all rights, very quickly at the employment office capable of being a builder. I'm sorry, but even though I've been volunteering on these matters many times, I apologize if someone who will have such a company, where I'm mentally, physically capable, at least I hope to be, and I wish that when I get there with my references, they'll say, "You know what, I need a builder, not someone who does, I don't know what." Or let's just say I'm going to be forced to be the only one who's going to load a bag of cement and move these things. Or let's say I'm a successful truck driver because you're talking the same way that there's a shortage. I'm saying that such an approach is wrong. However, I agree with you that there is a need to do everything possible here with other receptions to stimulate employment in these professions. By force, it seems to me that this would be a bad way for us to force these people to go on the other side of the road and then point them into these professions. I do not think that employers will be satisfied in this way either, given what kind of workforce they will receive as those they are supposed to employ. When we are talking here today about the rate of unemployment in young people growing up, and when we add that they are unemployed with a higher, higher level of education in a very large proportion, then we should also ask why. Are these young people who do not want to work? Are these people who do not find employment in the labour market? I come from an environment where I meet people from a few classes of primary school, and at an appropriate age already, who are now, in fact, with very few opportunities to get a job, to those who have, say, a doctorate in science. So these kinds of people who are unemployed and with very different specifics. We throw this into a basket where we don't give on one side a perspective for the right jobs. If, Mr Minister, we understood your words at the presentation when you ran for minister on the committee, when you said that you would try to make sure that none of the young people looking for first employment would be more than six months in the institution, and if these are measures, then unfortunately I understood you or at least try to understand you, and today I understand that you wanted to make such measures a reduction in unemployment, but not what is also a European orientation: creating jobs and creating good jobs. This should be your direction and, of course, your direction, that with all the levers you have within the government, you have, within the Ministry, that if I say so to them, you will be able to receive and find out, of course, how many of them there are, and with what measures you have in the levers today, do not work, or do you need additional levers to be able to get your hands on them, and either with money aid from taxpayers, for whom I agree, and once again, I stress that this is the common concern of all Members and Members, that we do not go in the direction of destimulating, demotivating job seekers, because in this way I am afraid, Slovenia is moving away from what we want. This is to form a knowledge-based society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you, you. Replica, colleague Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Every job we do is honorable. Whether I'm a master of construction or not, I'm no stranger to construction work. If I didn't get a job as a master of construction, I'd go to the farm as a slave. I don't find it hard to rip shit off, either. I don't see any problems in this, maybe someone sees them that he's not suitable for every job, given his level of education. I'm thinking the worst thing about being home and doing nothing is going to happen, and then all these weird things are going on your mind. I think if I'm doing a job that's unemployable, then it's also my duty to train for another profession, even at the age of 30, 40, 50. It's my duty. I think it's my responsibility first to be busy, only then, if I can't help myself, I think it's up to the state to try to help me. This is my duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman. We can learn from experience that our opposition amendments have fewer and fewer opportunities and that the big debates on this article 23 and the amendments, which are very important, are not as desperate, however, as the coalition colleagues have also promised different solutions as they are enshrined in the law. It is true that these debates here too today speak of the need to make order in this area and that the public supports the creation of order. But what is this order? Is it this order that a master of construction becomes a builder's waiter, or is this order something else? In Slovenia we have regions where people have been educated in some ways and are not employed through university education. However, the lack of some personnel is a lack of professional guidance. Mr. Secretary, you said, perhaps correctly, that there is a lack of carpenters, builders, sculptors and so on. Now imagine a region where perhaps unplanned unilateral youth have been educated in the direction, for example, we have a problem that can arise in biotechnological sciences, agronomists, foresters and so on, and we have too many economists, and we offer them tomorrow as any job to go do the carpenter's business. Mag. Capuder, this is a man's degradation. It's hard to imagine that that's why you've been trying, that school education doesn't sell, don't give up, and so on, that you get university or postgraduate education, and that you're living in an environment that you're attached to, you're not able to move from Prekmur to Primorska or to Austria, and you have to do the job of an unqualified construction worker. If you fall into this situation, it's personality degradation. And that's not a joke. I'm afraid we don't have support for such solutions in public. Maybe someone would really enjoy being a magician. Some of the sciences, the former MP, appeared in the construction site to be enjoyed by someone. They're also the ones who would enjoy it. But I think there are very few, I hope there are very few. The proposals that are here, I think, are two solutions that offer to try to establish order in one moderate way and not by extremes that they are justified. I hope that, despite everything, there will also be discussions with colleagues, that these amendments should have little chance of being accepted and that the issue that we call the establishment of order in employment policy or in employment institutions, on another path, but not so extreme a path. Mr Minister, if we recall the previous term when you were sitting around here somewhere, I think your discussions were going in a very different direction than today's solution, which you may just have to offer. I mean, it's not just your brat's grown-up stories, it's just circumstances. Such a solution can cause great, great unpleasantness in individuals who are unable to adapt or degrade to such a course, to such a degree, especially in certain environments which are problematic with university, university or other education. There have been many comparisons of these discussions. The labour market, flexibility in us is the pause when you become unemployed, and you get a job again, it's very long when in some countries it's only a few days. There, of course, the market works, in Ljubljana the situation is different, or in the surrounding area, than in these peripheral regions, which, above all, this government said it would take care of them and that the situation would be different. I hope so, but on this path, which is offered here in this article 23, I think these are solutions that are not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We did not oppose the debate in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group and also many useful changes to the Social Protection Act. It was good, in its view, that at the same time the Social Protection Act and the Employment and Insurance Act had emerged in the event of unemployment, because it was in some way a related problem. It is easier to detect the whole, and it is easier to see how unemployment problems can be solved. However, on behalf of our Group of Members, I would be firmly convinced, Mr Minister, that despite good ideas you were not prepared to follow to say nuances to solve these problems, but that you had solutions that were relatively simplified or otherwise. There's no way in. However, I think that it is precisely in the area of job search, in the area of job solving, that many different ways of solving employment are needed, because the specific situations of people are also very different. I agree with my colleague Majda Potrat that to refer to public opinion in this regard is one part, but not entirely objective, because it is very public opinion that does not take into account many of the different situations in which people are located, but rather simplifys and says "it is home because it does not want to work". It is, I would say, one simple stereotype, which unfortunately appears too often and then has a reverse negative effect on these people, that they do have a loss of feeling, dignity and much less confidence in finding a job. That is why, Mr Minister, we in our parliamentary group, at the time of article 23, in some way wanted to include three things that we believe would be acceptable. Firstly, we have a similar amendment, as has already been the case with some colleagues, to ensure that those receiving social support must first accept suitable employment, not any kind. This was mainly based on some of the facts. The first is that there are many people in the social support circle who seek first employment because they do not have the right to receive anything at the expense of the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, and if they are from families where they have social criteria or, if they live alone, the right to social support, they can obtain it on this basis. Now for the first question that comes up here. Mr Minister, the one who finishes secondary, higher, university education and will first appear in the labour market will have to accept from an environment, a family in which he will have the right to receive social support, any employment, someone else who will be able to take care of him from an environment where his parents can take care of him, because he will not have the right under social criteria to receive social support, and for him the employment agency will be working on an employment plan that is consistent with his education and will help him to find his education suitable employment. Do you think that's okay? I do not think and that this will degrade this man twice, who has received adequate education from a difficult social environment, but now immediately, if he does not get an adequate job, he must accept a job that is also more than twice as low as his education, so that I will not repeat what this means in practice many times, as my colleague, Spending has warned. It means that in this context of the constitution, because even when looking for a suitable one, someone says, "No, because you're doing something, it's still easier for you, we'd rather take someone else who's not doing anything yet." And that's how it takes years to stay in this circle. Regardless of the fact that in principle it is possible to say that every work is dignified, that someone who does not have it must seek out any suitable work that he is able to do, because everyone is not able to manage to survive and so on. These are all truths, but truths that are very cruel when they run into a specific case. Next, Mr. Secretary. Should it not also be possible at this point in employment in the same way as in Article 36.b, first paragraph, after three months of employment for payment, if it does not receive, it must also take up appropriate temporary or occasional humanitarian or auxiliary work. You also gave some time-graduate here so that you could not say here, but if three months or six months does not get yourself a suitable job, then as a recipient of social assistance, you are also obliged to accept a job that is less than two levels of education. For example, I speak. In short, perhaps there would be different solutions that you have simply simplified or said, one way or another. I do not think it is good that this does not take into account the real situation of an individual, that this does not take account of the real situation of the environment in which he is and is looking for employment and that, after all, at these certain points that I have shown, this also creates an incorrect distinction between people. I don't think that's right. The other thing we have proposed is that it is possible to extend the possibility that someone also has the right, for reasons of objection to conscience or similar reasons, to refuse to accept work and that this is not considered to be an unjustified rejection, which I do not understand why you did not accept. I guess you don't have to explain that. And a third. We have proposed that, for those who, as recipients of social assistance, accept either temporary, occasional work or humanitarian and similar work, give some stimulation. Stimulation in such a way that if he accepts work, that in addition to paying he receives part of the social assistance, that he is also materially stimulated more than those who, as you said, are only at home waiting. No, this one's not home, and he wasn't waiting, but he was willing to take some extra work. Give him the pay and some stimulation. The same would apply to those who accept humanitarian and similar work that is not paid. We say, then, in this case, that his social assistance should be slightly higher because he is doing some work, that he is also stimulated in this way. I don't understand why this is such an unacceptable solution, because it shows that, as you say, you should have a carrot on one side, on one side of the stick. You have more sticks in this law, give some more root because it is necessary to stimulate, not only to sanction someone who is in a situation where he cannot work or does not have a job, and it is also an appropriate employment agency that he cannot offer and cannot find. There was no valid argument to reject such a solution. Whether the amendments we have proposed are mathematically the best. They're not. Maybe. I don't mind you saying, instead of half a third of a salary, but to be prepared to talk about this issue, Mr. Minister, not to say "no, this is unacceptable to us." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you, for your word. I have to say that today, in a completely different time than we were when we, who are here today, started schooling and then started a career. We were probably almost all of us, at least those as old as I am, very hard to expect in companies, that we finished school and that we could start work. Unfortunately, the situation is completely reversed today. It is essential to make a basic study or to acquire a profession very early, if you want not to have problems later on. That is true, we see a lack of certain profiles today. I'm sure that's what we're missing, which I almost couldn't believe, the truck drivers, but that's what happened today. The times that have been, unfortunately, have passed, and this proposal that is ahead of us is doing nothing but wanting the one that happened to him to engage him, to make the most of it for him to get to work, not only to write a role, but to be active, not to fall into some psychological trauma that can happen very quickly if you sit at home, wait for a call, where you get a job, from the institution, and wait for maybe some support. That's what I think the worst option is. Everyone else is better. I agree that we are talking about something being paid for it, but we need to ask those responsible whether there are funds for it. If they exist, there is no reason why we should not devote these resources to these people, but if they do not exist, then this option, which is only reasonable and we probably have to accept it. I was very surprised at the polls, and on TV it was when they asked the passersby by accident, whether they would accept the work that was offered to you, which otherwise did not suit your education, and I was surprised that most people simply said, as they would have if they had been in this situation, they would have taken the job, whatever it was. And even after all, if necessary, I would also go to mow grass, as mentioned here. And I'm saying the worst thing is to wait at home for something to fall out of the sky. Nothing will fall from the sky, unfortunately, unfortunately. These are cruel, real, cruel times. We face it every day. But it's actually starting at the school stage when you have to decide on a job like this, not as happy as you are, unfortunately we're at a time like this, but one where you see a future, that you'll get a job somewhere. Not only have these times been, but they are no longer, and the situation needs to be adjusted accordingly. Unfortunately, there's no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you. Of course, it is possible to hear such opinions when it comes to personal determination to accept each job, but this is a matter of personal choice and I respect it. Now ask me if I'd go do every job. Of course I would, because I do a lot of things at home, which is what everyone does, and I do every job at home. But there is something else if it imposes on you the law and if you live in an environment where development policies on the one hand promise to create new jobs with added value, where, on the other hand, in development policy, there are also big words about how we need to find enough jobs for people in less developed parts to stay there, and then it looks like what I found recently in Ptuj when the unemployed 153 women with higher education and 53 men. What do you expect from them now? Are they automatically declared part-timers and unwilling to do anything, or are they included in active employment policies and retraining? You know, with these things, I know a whole bunch of women from Maribor who joined the programs, but then something changed in the legislation, and they became surplus again. And once you've been requalified twice, then you'll think a little bit more about whether you're going to get into that kind of education program. It's simply a problem we don't want to see. On the one hand, we are pleased that we are growing an educational structure, on the other hand we say that we must promote vocational education, and honourable Member Geza Juban has warned that such vocational education is not necessary to lead to employment in the labour market, because even every professional high education does not allow work. Therefore, it would be fair to think of the need to respect the professional choice that someone chooses when we are satisfied with our educational indicators. Not everyone has a career plan for themselves when they enter education, for example, at tertiary level, and they do not know where life will take them. But what I think is particularly young people, recipients of money, social assistance, the essential importance of not making them completely unwitting, and of apriorizingly declaring them part-timers when they write requests, when they know that their application for employment is one of the hundred, three hundred, could still be numbered. I am not saying that some are not in such a state of willlessness and are no longer inclined to help themselves, as we say. But it is not acceptable for all that apriorous to set up such solutions that they have in themselves a subterranean that they do not want to do all these. That is why I also support those solutions, which would at least stimulate some of those who are trying to help themselves with some of the redundancies. Now I would also ask: Are all job providers equally moral, ethical, or even sometimes it is impossible to detect any slight benefit from the hardship of whom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this in connection with Article 23? Comrade Gez Juban and later Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'd like to add a little something. Especially because some colleagues here today are very surprised to say that they would accept every job if they were in trouble. I beg you, even the cases were listed, I'd go and rip the shit and I'd eat the weed. Which one of you who claims to be doing this would, within a few months, scramble and fail mentally if you really had to do this. Besides, if I had to live off this, because these are works that are actually low-paid or, I don't know if you're doing anything private, the added value is very low and to say something like that, I don't think it's fair. Then it's the orientation of the school. That's right. Young people are more adaptable, less time-consuming, they can also learn, even if they are highly educated to adapt, they can move around the world. The problem is with the elderly. I'll take one case now. We're all a case of professional deformity and I'll take the case if you happen to be engaged in the transformation of the agri-land chamber, where, let's say, 100 people remain surplus on average with college education. So these people can work in areas where it's said, "We need 100 workers there to dig a sugar beet." Even professionally oriented is the same. Can you imagine that this is going to happen and that these people are going to have to accept this? Or a different option. If an economist takes the opportunity to do so, it may be an extreme comparison, but in view of the needs, the occasional work of a carpenter. Who's gonna hire this man in a year or two or five more as an economist if he says, "I've been working as a carpenter for three years?" I may be referring to extremes, but in some cases it is also a force in these extremes. Austria, which is an example to us in many areas, even through its structure in various parts of the economy, is very similar to us, because national income is inadequately higher, it has problems that we are dealing with that are much more mild than the current government proposes. We have little or no such extremes in European legislation. And I don't think it's good for us to go into extremes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you, you. Member Han has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor Minister, Your Honor! I have listened with interest for two and a half hours to the debate, which is going in this direction, that our country is indeed moving away from the social state or, if I am precise, I will say that the social state in Slovenia is at this time on trial. At the head of the ministry, we have a gentleman who seems to me to be social, with people who are in trouble, with problems, who have nothing in common, or who can turn in such a way that he understands people who are really in trouble. When I listen to some Members sitting in this beautiful round hall, air-conditioned, it seems to me that some really have no contact with the real world. Even after two years, when some came to this beautiful place, I'll say, the temple of democracy, they lost all contact with the world. It seems unfair to me to talk about people who have problems, about a small person taking advantage of society, exploiting tax money, not wanting to work, seems extremely unfair to me. I am sure, although we do not have this information, that we Slovenians are known to know some laws and to find loopholes in marriages, but until today the Minister is not the Minister and the Ministry has not told us how many of these people who exploit, I will say, this law. I'm talking about cash social assistance and so on, but really in numbers, and believe me, more than 5% of them certainly aren't. And this 5% will also be able to take advantage of all these laws and all these black holes that exist in the future. A common worker, an ordinary man who does not get a job, a man who is unemployed, a man who does not have material goods, will still be left unattended on the road. And that's not right. As long as we are headed by the Ministry of Labour, Social and Disabled People, who does not understand this, I do not think Slovenia is well written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you, you. The word is given by Minister Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u88	There are, of course, some safeguards in Article 36b that prevent any kind of bullying from occurring. One is, every job is the one that corresponds to the physical and mental abilities of the person. The second condition is that it meets the requirements of the employer, i.e. it is also a skill. There is nothing to be able to do, since it must also take into account those who will present the worker’s appropriate qualifications. And third, so this should also be defined in the employment plan. These are the criteria on which it is then also determined whether such a referral makes sense. With regard to unemployment, I can stress that we have structural, Frecian and under-requirement unemployment in Slovenia. And this is actually kept to a greater or lesser extent in all countries. These measures will also reduce unemployment. And this will be good, especially if people earn or improve social security primarily by their own work. After all, it is employment that brings more resources, while also bringing other benefits, social inclusion, which is one of the four basic objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. Leaving people without employment, especially the Roma population, is a serious mistake in Slovenia, as we provide a high level of income, that is, money aid, but this is not the right direction. And that's what they warned us about. And we have the best help for the Roma population, but this is not the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Minister, I will re-emphasize what we have already stressed in the debate by the opposition Members. I ask you from this city to give a green light for at least one of these amendments to be accepted. This is the amendment that speaks of proper employment. Without this protection, protection for those who are currently on monetary social assistance, which is the extreme edge of survival, we are moving fairly away from the constitutional provision that says Slovenia is a social state. Excuse me. Each job after this exercise of yours means grading all previous educational and work activities of the job seeker. Mostly the first job-seeker. These are young people. And, I don't know if you know, but believe me, it's not with a smile on your face to look at people who come to the institution and ask for financial social assistance as the only source of survival. Believe me, it's not. And what we are proposing to you, and if you want within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, this amendment is only one protection: inserting the word appropriate employment. This is just one protection, and believe that protection is important for those on the verge of survival.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you. Anyone else want a word in connection with Article 23 and the Ninth Amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Who wants a word? We only have one report. My friend Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! Amendments to Article 30 deal with the question of who can provide social security services or, if I am more accurate, close the door to theologians so that they can provide these services. In the New Slovenia Group, we have come up with arguments to make it clear that we strongly reject these two amendments. We've looked at what actually brings up studies in theology. With arguments, but not with ideology, with ideological debate I will also confirm our decision. In the programmes of a 5-year and 3-year study of theology and specialized study of marriage and family therapy, students of theology receive extensive teaching, psychological, andragosian, humanistic and social knowledge. I cite some of the main points of this kind of study at the university of theology. The study of pedagogy and andragogics introduces students into the theory and practice of education in different development periods. They are deepening into systems of communication, motivation and overcoming obstacles. A study of pedagogical psychology informs listeners of the legality and knowledge of developmental psychology, generational and intergenerational relations and the design of self-image. The study of anthropology trains students to understand the mystery of man, revealing man as a psychophysical, spiritual and symbolic being and at the same time creating a sense of an integrated understanding of man. Study the ethics of learning students from the basics of general ethical science, training them to solve ethical dilemmas, the question of responsibility, freedom, values and meaning. He treats a man as a being of relations and a superhuman being. The study of religions and economism helps students to understand the various religious and cultural flows from which individuals come, training them to understand them and to help them more effectively. The knowledge of philosophy and the history of the development of human thought broadens general education and spiritual culture, training students for logical thinking and seeking an appropriate approach to solving various conflict and stress situations. In the New Slovenia Group, we firmly believe that the graduates of the Masters and PhDs of the Theological Faculty are highly theoretically and professionally qualified to perform social protection works and that their knowledge is comparable to the knowledge acquired by graduates of other professions already mentioned in the existing Article 3(3) of the Social Protection Act, so of course we will not support these two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. At the same time, I would like to thank Vice-President Pečet for his previous meeting management. Good-bye, everyone. I give the floor to Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Basically, the dilemma needs to be cleared. This dilemma is, by the way, obviously you don't know, this dilemma is that cooperation is already ensured today, the participation of university graduates in the field of social protection. What the law is talking about, and what we disagree with in the Slovenian National Party, is that professional workers are not talking about masters and doctors, but that they can be employed as professionals in the field of social security. Today, I say from this place that they do not have the appropriate qualifications to do so. There's a difference. And if you look at it, I've heard the enumeration of what all graduates of theology are trained to do in the course of their studies. Look at this document, it's a government document that clearly discusses the way in which they educate one another and educate other students or future graduates. If that were true as we have heard, then we do not really need any other Faculty of Social Sciences, but theological faculty would actually be enough for all social areas, including humanities, where, last but not least, the Theological Faculty, the field of humanities, belongs. And let us allow why we have decided to table an amendment also because of another important fact which I have already pointed out on the working body, this information is real data and it speaks of statistics, purely fresh, obtained by the Slovenian Institute of Employment. At the end of 2005, only 34 university graduates were registered among the unemployed. Among social workers at a lower, higher and university level 227. You know, this is also a well-founded argument, why we do not agree to the fact that in the area of social protection, the staff, the staff of those who can be qualified to work in this area, is expanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of the Stabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! I can't help but wonder at these arguments. The number of unemployed should now be the criterion or reason why a specialisation or profile would not be appropriate for these types of aid. Then look at the statistics on how many unemployed lawyers or lawyers there are. As such, I doubt that it has such broad and special objects that are ideal for these types of aid. And I can only wonder at this kind of reasoning. Instead of being happy together that these types of services are officially available to those who do so with their heart, with their belongings to man. Of course if they're people like that. I'm not saying the others don't do that either. Students of theological faculty are very special.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Colleague Žgeiner Tavsh has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Well, obviously, Mr. Stebe, you misunderstood me. I wasn't talking about the appropriateness of the profile based on unemployment statistics. I have mentioned statistics because I am based on these data, and I will say again, on the basis of these data, that it is necessary to resolve the primary profession first. The primary profession in this area is social work. That's why we have studies, today's university studies of social work. These are experts who have been trained for 4 years to specialize in work, professional work in the field of social protection. They also pass the professional examination after the completion of the study, even the Master's degree can be continued. That's why I mentioned statistics, but basically I said that I don't believe it or as far as I know it, and I also mentioned a government document that clearly speaks about study programmes, about what they specialize in one of them and about what other students or future graduates specialize in. On the basis of the profession, expertise acquired by one student and another, I have justified my opposition to the fact that it is expanding in this area of the faculty of theology, which, in your opinion or in your proposal, could be employed in the primary area of social protection as professionals. Once again, I would like to stress that these people, the university's graduates, can participate today. However, it is true that they cannot be professionals in this area because they do not have a professional basis, they have certain knowledge, but they do not have a professional basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Capuder, then Minister Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The amendment's proposers state that the university's education programme does not provide sufficient theoretical knowledge for the provision of services and programmes carried out by professionals in the field of social protection. I fully agree with the fact that the university's students probably do not get the basic skills, which is why the proposed amendment of the law has also provided for the inclusion of students of theology with appropriate specialization as well, emphasis being placed on appropriate specialisation. This is what the amendment's proponents keep forgetting. What this appropriate specialization is, has already been said by my colleague Horvath, but it is also possible that, like all other graduates, and here I am disturbed by why all those who would just specialize properly have achieved an appropriate level of education, why all of them cannot compete for such professional work. Look, after all, we still have a condition that such an expert must have 1 year of work experience in the field of social protection, he must have an apprenticeship and, above all, must have an expert exam to do this. All these arguments put forward by the proponents are indeed more ideological in nature, as we can see for ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Zginer Tavsh? But in the debate. Then the first word is "minister," then "mag." Waste, then you. All right, the minister will discuss it at the end. Mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you. As well as during the general debate, it was heard that our arguments, which led us to make such an amendment, were ideological. Of course, they are ideologically seen by those who are declared to be such. I can't get past what the saying says, each eye has its own painter. But what we Social Democrats wanted to say by making this amendment is simply that if we come from the position of job seekers, it is those who have the right education, but already in this context they do not get the job so much that the circle of those who can do the job does not show expansion without serious consideration. I am aware that theologians are most likely to focus on lay theologians who sometimes have the possibility of linking their studies to another study and who are candidates for employment there. And it is in this experience that I also find a catchment point for rejecting the evidence of ideology, because at the Faculty of Education in Maribor we had lay theologians like those who, as a study course in addition to lazi theology, also studied Slovenian, for example. And now graduates from this study course are also employed as Slovenian professors or Slovenian professors. Here it would be pointless to discuss who is ideological and who is not. The other thing is whether in fact basic education, which in this case I am assigning a diploma to a university graduate or sociologist, or a social worker, or a psychologist, or whether these programmes are really completely equivalent. The specialisation on which it is referred is described here in the justification, in the third paragraph of the justification, they receive specialisation in marriage and family therapy. However, it is probably under the Social Protection Act for a significantly broader profile, not just for specialization in marriage and family therapy. And this is what seems to the Social Democrats not to train them to this extent, so that they can be equivalent to any job, because we recognize that they are also within the framework of family and marriage therapy, but probably not all of them, because we know that, after all, the funds for marriage and family therapy programmes have been given some sort of order, and this has happened and will happen. And probably those who gave the money already know why they gave it. So it's about this kind of training. I say, it is a narrow specialisation, which is not necessarily so necessary, because then we should look at all others who also have this narrow field of counselling in family and marriage matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. She's also a colleague of the Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I again justify what I have actually said before and in explanation also to others who do not want to understand the differences and why I personally and also in the Slovenian National Party oppose the proposed solution. Look, the matter is not ideologically subdued, and I will read to you, my colleague Capuder, the opinion of the section of the Social Chamber, which is the umbrella organisation for social workers in the field of social protection. The Social Chamber opposes the proposed solution, saying that part of the amendments to the law is ideological in this part. In law, the status of a professional worker is special because it can progress and has the opportunity to become a director of such an institution. The law also regulates more precisely the educational policies that are appropriate for this purpose. This, however, is by taking into account the education programme of such an educational direction. This is not my personal opinion, but I stress once again, this is the opinion of the social profession. The Theological Faculty's education programme does not provide basic theoretical skills for the provision of services and programmes carried out by professional workers in the field of social protection. However, it enables them, as I have already said, to participate in, or to do, the tasks for which they are qualified. These tasks are clearly linked to the knowledge of legislation and the established methodology for the work of social protection. The university’s educational program of theology, however, departs from other established education. This is an expert opinion, esteemed colleague Capuder, not an ideological opinion or ideological subjugation of my thinking. And you mentioned a professional specialty. Why, then, is such a professional specialization solely in the field of social protection and only for theologians? If what you said could last, then all sociologists could adequately specialize and become employed in the field of sociology. And don't "heck it up," Mr. Capuder. However, someone who has not been trained as a lawyer for four years has no option of being able to work in a law firm after four years with appropriate specialization because he does not have basic knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you. Mag. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u106	Yes, colleague Tavsheva doesn't listen to what they say. I didn't say that the university of theology had enough knowledge. However, I still argue that graduates of theological faculty have sufficient expertise with appropriate specialization. And if we go to see the program offered by the Theological Faculty in the field of specialization, family and marriage therapy, you will be Yes, Mrs. Tavševa, how is a lawyer suitable for social work? [[...]] How is the lawyer appropriate, how is it still appropriate - just to find - how is someone who has completed the psychological direction pedagogical? How can he be so decent? Then why can't a graduate theologian who also deals with psychology, who also deals with pedagogy and all the things that are mentioned here? That is why I do not understand and therefore accept the opposition that diplomat theologians with appropriate specialisation should be suitable for professional workers as ideological opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Colleague Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u108	It's not a replica of a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u109	The debate is under way. I thought this was a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u110	I still have time and I am participating in the debate for 47 or 45 seconds. Believe me, I know a social security program or a program that is being implemented by the Faculty of Social Work today. For four years, future graduates are educated only in the field of social work, and within them there are individual directions, including for the area of family and marriage therapy. But it's just one segment. You repeat this segment in the Faculty of Theology as the only credible and justifiable why these graduates are entitled to be put into this law. No, it's not fair. The profession also opposes it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Obviously, we are still in the debate. Mag. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u112	As long as we have time, we can. Look, I'm going to read Article 69, which we're changing. And this one says: "The professionals under this law are the employees who have graduated from higher or higher education who are educated in social work and have completed their training and vocational examination for work in the field of social protection. And now what's most interesting... "experts are also workers who have graduated from higher or higher education in psychological direction, teaching direction and its special disciplines in administrative, legal and sociological direction" and we have added "graduates of theological faculty with appropriate specialization." [[....]] That's what we added to this law. No one denies that those who have completed social studies do not have primary studies, but also others have the right to participate. I think after their education, they can also be called for this kind of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. And the minister, too, mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Such a change would be discriminatory, but in particular we must ensure that Slovenia has a wide range of employment opportunities. This is also in line with the Lisbon Strategy and other documents. Otherwise, senior executives or executives are also experts. And why don't we just give them up? It is even good that the area of social work and social protection is complemented by their specialization, since they are not the only ones capable [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u116	I find it difficult to understand this latest explanation by Minister Drobnik that this is a matter of discrimination or prevention of discrimination. Recently, there has been a marked increase in the number of theologians employed in government and without legal basis. I hope that there they meet those conditions which are prescribed for the performance of any work. Why is it necessary to spread right here, I would understand because the fact that there has been a recent attempt to introduce a new doctrine in the field of social protection, and something else, and that new people need to be brought here. This is understandable, but it is likely that theologians are needed in this law in order for those private institutions that will take care of social protection under the concession contract to be able to manage verified personnel. That's what this is about, no. Now it is important to ask whose side is the ideology and lack of confidence in education. The fact that notorious emphasis or notorious doubt on the appropriateness of legal education is evident and can be traced here several times. But as it is said, one should ask how to place such statements of discrimination in the truth in something that is discriminatory can be done if one does not get a job because of one’s conviction, but it cannot be discriminatory if some education is required to do some work and is an exclusion factor just because someone does not have an education. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. It seems to me that these objections are delayed reflections that still appear in this society. It is necessary to say that theological faculty is the same as all other universities, is a member of the university, is the founder of the university, is the oldest university in the world and in Europe, and it must be said that some of our people who have decided to study at the university are studying at this university. So it's our people. To deny them in this Parliament, where we have to look for all citizens and citizens the right to be trained under a specific programme for this work in the social field, I do not know how you can explain and argue this. Are these not our citizens, these are not our citizens, but this is not our youth, but this is not the part of Slovenk and the Slovenians, who, after that, must also contribute to the common good of this country in all areas? Then why would they object just because they graduated from a college that is just some, I don't know, you don't admit, you don't take it seriously enough, or is it entirely true from the ideological side that you're opposed to this college? This is illogical, of course, and such a debate on the part of some Members does not really seem worthy of a Member's level. Really, it's very hard to hear that. I'd ask you to be [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] How can I not listen to you if you speak in front of everyone in the way you speak? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 23rd and 5 minutes. I also thank the Minister for his cooperation and interrupt this item on the agenda. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is on the second defensively proposed bill on call and professional education. We have one hour and 35 minutes to discuss. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I invite the Minister of the Beast to further explain the proposal. [[That won't be necessary.]] Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'd like to invite the chairman of the committee, Mag. Grims to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. At its 16th regular session, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered a proposal for a law on vocational and professional education submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee adopted a relatively large number of amendments, together with some 10 articles, and adopted two own amendments following the comments of the legislative and legal service. I would also point out that the remaining amendments are practically all legal or nomotechnic in nature and do not specifically affect the content. The Committee also adopted the text thus supplemented at the second stage of its consideration and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, as a very good basis, it should also be accepted as a relatively high consensus of the members of the Committee of the various parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 17th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving immediately to a single article and an amendment tabled. On the basis of the review of the amendments of 10 July 2006 it is Article 6 which I am putting to the debate and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. To the word "magic." It's a waste. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you. The law of which he spoke was, in fact, prepared for a long time. Some of the solutions he has endured say that they are summarized according to the previous law. Such a solution, as was known by the previous Act on Vocational Education, is also the one enshrined in Article 6 of the Act in question. He's referring to the learning language. It is perfectly understandable that the subject of the amendment cannot be the first paragraph, which is very clear and consistent with the Constitution, which speaks of the teaching language in the professional or professional education of Slovenia. We are aware in the Group of Social Democrats that the law must also reflect the new situations in which we are also guided by education on what we say in education of exchange of students, exchange of professors, and this also raises the question of how to deal with language, learning language in such cases. I know that the coalition agreement states that the adopted law on the public use of Slovenian will try to change so that it appears more useful and does not close the Slovenian space too much. It was in the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian that the most important language was how to deal with the learning language in order to respect the constitutional provision, article 11 of the Constitution, and to ensure that Slovenian citizens and citizens could fully exercise their right to education in their mother tongue or in the languages of the two national communities. Therefore, in the second paragraph, a special reference is made to the use of the language of the national community in bilingual vocational and professional schools. It is true that this new situation, as I mentioned earlier, is also about how interesting our vocational and professional education will be for students from other countries. In a recent interview in the School Views, I think that this was on June 17, 2006, the Minister of the Beast just mentioned how fundamental changes this law has received, and luckily this law has not come up with ideological concerns, but it is important to count that for some professions and professions we will probably not have enough interest at home, but that we will also get interested in education from other countries. And that's where Hungary is specifically mentioned. I am not so upset by this mention because we have bilingual vocational and professional schools and it is possible to provide this group of students with education in this language. It is quite different, for example, if there is a group, the Slovaks have been mentioned today. We are sure that all the Slavonic languages are so similar that we understand each other, but this is at the level of general communication, but this is probably not acceptable to the professional vocabulary. You see, and here I begin a problem, which I have made a little longer introduction to him so that we do not give us insight into the problem and the stalemate that we are setting up walls around Slovenia through which we cannot penetrate. In Europe, I think that in Europe, not just in the European Union, mobility is one of the characteristics with which we have to do almost every step. It is true, though, that we are open to members of different nations and races when it comes to the use of their language. And what has somehow become self-evident is that we take English as some kind of international, as a substitute for, for example, the language of the educated, it is Latin that it is "lingua franca", as they say. But the fact is that probably all foreign languages are not so knowledgeable that they can well follow a lesson for which a good understanding of the substance is crucial. Also, linguists who teach foreign languages say that we can face so-called foxy illiteracy if there is education in two languages, because we have a segment in our own language, such as in Slovenian and another segment in foreign language, where we have that knowledge. Therefore, it seems to me that a step forward has been taken in the amendment to Article 6 of what I have proposed on the working body and has not been adopted, but that I have completed it on behalf of the group of Members, it is understood that Article 6 with a supplement which referred to the fact that it is possible to determine under what circumstances the use of foreign language in vocational or vocational education is possible. The Committee, as it is said, has not accepted this supplement. However, a supplement was adopted, which is in addition to the possibility that foreign language is used when it comes to an established foreign expert, there are also possibilities when it comes to international exchanges, which is actually spreading from the field of teaching to the auditorium, so to speak, and it would be very ugly because students are subject, it is said to those who are participants in education. At that time, I considered that Article or this right or exemption from the right to education in motherhood was too extensive and that even with a rule that was not in place, it was impossible to avoid arbitrariness, which in such cases would certainly be faced. Therefore, after consulting representatives of the Slovenian Executive Branch at the Ministry of Education and Sport, as well as with Dr. Janez Dular from the Ministry of Culture, who is a kind of guardian of the field of the public use of Slovenian and the implementation of the law on the public use of Slovenian, I have come to this text, which I offer to you, honourable Members and Members, to receive, thinking that it is broad enough for all of them and that it takes sufficient account of the new situations, while at the same time allowing those students who are not so well versed in the foreign language that they can follow the lesson in the foreign language so well enough that they can also carry out the verification of knowledge from this area to be able to support it and, as it is said, to do, even, the goat of the sita is also present, the wolf and the goat of the whole. But I added the cabbage because it seems to me that this has not only grown on my cornea, but that others have helped me with this proposal, which I thank them for. This takes into account the consent of the Minister or Minister, who will still have an overview of how wide the phenomenon is that things would not slip away completely. However, this is a segment of public and private education. You know that the expectations of some of how many private schools will be opened in Slovenia, where there will be no binding any of these rules, which we are talking about, can also be met. Although there is a foreign language teaching in Slovenian schools, beyond what is a foreign language teaching, it is understandable. But these are exceptions, these are experiments, there are certain circumstances that have the necessary legal basis and it is right to include this provision in the law on vocational and vocational education. I didn't want to be, as I say, too much here, so I hope you won't be sad, and you will vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I find that there are no further applications for discussion, so I conclude. We will, as usual, decide on the amendment at the time of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 23:00 and 5 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's a second defensive proposal for a religious freedom law. We have 4 hours and 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. As I see it, the representative is already joining us. Dr. Chapar, I would like to invite you to the floor for an additional explanation, for which you have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u124	Dear Members and Members! One of the fundamental requirements of the democratic political system is respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the creation of guarantees for their realization. Religious freedom and freedom of conscience are among these rights. The current legislation, based on the 1976 Law on the Legal Status of Religious Communities, has, on the one hand, become obsolete, the law provides for, for example, the obligation to declare a religious community, which is not in accordance with the current Constitution and, on the other hand, is flawed because it does not regulate certain fundamental areas, procedures, criteria and conditions of registration and the register of religious communities. Since the procedure for the application or registration of a religious community is not legally defined, it does not provide legal certainty and legal guarantees to religious communities wishing to register. The Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution of 1991 in Article 1 provides that provisions which do not comply with the Constitution must be aligned with it by the end of 1993 at the latest. This has not yet been done in this law. In view of the shortcomings of the current law mentioned above, the aim of the proposed new Law on Religious Freedom is to fulfil the obligations imposed by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, and in particular to regulate the way in which religious freedom is ensured and its individual and collective implementation, to establish criteria and conditions for the registration of religious communities, their registration procedure and the rights of churches and other religious communities and their members. So far, religious communities have received funds from the State budget to cover employers' contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance. The contribution of the State to the pension and health insurance of the priests was gradually reduced from a maximum of 23.86% of the basis for the calculation of the contributions in 1992 to 15,94, as now. Thus, the percentage of the total amount of 21.86% of the basis laid down by the proposed law does not reach the level at which the State has already co-financed these contributions. Both now and under the proposed law, this aid goes to both pension and medical bills and not to individuals. A half-year ago assessment showed that in 2007 this would require 501 million tolars, according to 2007 estimates. The latest estimate is 488 million, according to 2007 estimates. The main reason for the difference is the decline in the number of priests. We were counting on the number 1043 at the time, now it's 1022. The solutions offered by law are a matter of genuine long-term consensus among several successive governments. The draft law was confirmed by the government commission to resolve the open issues of religious communities in 2004, for example, the ministers of the previous government introduced religious spiritual care for soldiers and hired a priest to provide spiritual care for prisoners, and contributions to the social security of priests were co-financed by all governments after independence and decades prior to independence. All of this gives hope that the regulation of this area will mature and that the Republic of Slovenia will take an important step forward by adopting this law in the area of religious freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much for further explanation. In the meantime, young visitors and visitors joined us on the stand. Nice greeting in the Slovenian Parliament. However, we continue with item 2 of the agenda and invite Mr Mojco Kucler Dolinar to present the report of the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u126	Nice greetings, presidents, representative of the Office for Religious Communities, fellow Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished dear visitors! At its 23rd meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law on religious freedom. The representative of the proposer, the Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Religious Communities, gave an additional explanation to the article of the draft law, stressing that the purpose of the proposal is to eliminate the unconstitutionality of the current law, since it does not specify individual criteria, conditions, procedures for application and rights, and also allows arbitration. He said that we are one of the rare transition countries that has not yet adopted modern law in this area and that it is very difficult to work operationally with the 1976 law and that it is therefore necessary for this proposal to be adopted. In the course of the debate, he also provided clarifications to individual articles of the bill. The committee was also attended by the President of the Commission of the National Committee on Petitions and Human Rights and the equal opportunities of Magistrate Majd Potrat, who presented the written opinion of this Commission, which also addressed the proposal of the law as an interested working body at its meeting on 14.6.2006. As she said, the Commission's main concerns regarding the word "church and other religious communities" were raised when it said that the text of the bill did not follow the full title of the law. The provisions on the financing of churches and religious communities, the payment of social security contributions, church officials and other religious communities were further discussed. In the opening presentation of the exchange of this service, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service touched on Article 30, which relates mainly to the definition of the competent authority and referred to the conditions for the registration of religious communities and, in their opinion, the absence of an explanation of the reasons for the solution proposed. It also pointed out paragraphs 22 and 23 in relation to 73.a. Article of the Police Act. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee agreed with the proposer that a modern proposal for a law in this area should be adopted. However, they had slightly different views and views, or concepts, on the very contents of the bill and discussed in this regard in particular the article setting out the content of the law and the related amendments relating to the deletion of the word 'church' from the entire text of the law. Some members argued that only the term “faithful community” should be used, meaning that this was a reference to any collection or association on a religious basis. On the other hand, most members considered it to be and should also be the purpose of the law, to regulate the status of religious associations in Slovenia and to show in some way the actual situation, as most citizens and citizens united in such or different churches and that the Roman Catholic Church is not explicitly mentioned in the bill and discussed further the conditions for the registration of religious communities, in particular for registration in the sense that it brings certain solutions. Here too, views differed slightly from those who felt that not all religious communities were guaranteed equal conditions, but to the majority who felt that equality in law was established. In particular, the majority felt that the bill allowed for the free operation of all religious communities, whether registered or not. Member Saša Peca, LDS MPs, DeSUS parliamentary group, SD parliamentary group and coalition parliamentary group, as well as Member Aleš Gulič, who drafted the amendment at the committee's own meeting, submitted to the draft law within the time limit. The Committee adopted an amendment to Articles 27 and 30 of the SDS, New Slovenia and SLS coalition groups, and finally supported the amended draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 17th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We continue to discuss two articles and two amendments tabled. You have a list on the document dated July 10th. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Mag. Robbery, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We have prepared an amendment in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This is an amendment to Article 27 of the Religious Freedom Act, an amendment replacing the proposed article that defines and regulates the financing of religious communities in Slovenia. Why did we prepare and decide on this amendment? Simply because we believe that, as is now the case for the financing of religious communities in Slovenia, and also as proposed, it is not the best way to regulate the financing of religious communities. Discussions on how and how to regulate the financing of religious communities have been ongoing for many years. There were many ideas and suggestions. On the one hand, we have a government proposal and a government funding method for religious communities based on budgetary funding based on simple funding. We estimate that this model, in particular as defined in this bill, is one of the worst possible ways of financing religious communities. It is also simply because it allows and allows the policy to define the criteria under which religious communities will be financed, or that in those cases where these criteria cannot be fully defined, for example, as regards the number of believers and the like, in such cases, the policy may decide who is the one to be financed and also to what extent. And what is unusual for this type of funding in a large number of European countries, this type of funding burdens all taxpayers, regardless of whose religious community they are, whether they want or do not want to participate in such financing. That is why we have recently seen some alternative proposals. We believe that the proposal, which goes in the same direction as the one adopted in Germany or in part in Austria, is also not the best. We're talking church tax. We believe that at this time there are really no reasons for re-imposing taxes, including church taxes, in Slovenia, and that there is no need. Therefore, in reviewing existing models in Europe and ways of financing religious communities, we have found that, in some countries, they also have adequate funding systems for our country, for which it is the best time right now, an opportunity to take over and fully manage the financing of all religious communities in Slovenia. I would like to point out that in the LDS, we are not against the provision of funding for religious communities; we are not against the fact that such activity is particularly encouraged. However, we believe that all religious communities are equal in this regard, that all citizens and citizens are involved in the system and decision-making process on the extent of funding. If, of course, we look at funding systems, then we see that, in fact, it is now a one-time opportunity, an opportunity to sum up the so-called Spanish-Italian model, a model that essentially allows everyone, every citizen and citizen, to be part of an already-spent income for one of the religious communities or for a non-profit activity, or to decide simply not to make a decision or decide and go into the budget. The review of such systems shows that, for example, in Italy, the level of such funding is 0.8%, in Spain 0.55%, that is, those countries with regulated funding for religious communities, where this is checked, where it works, where it works and works well. On the basis of some of the calculations we have made, we have found that in Slovenia there would be an appropriate share of about 0.6%. And we have now included this part in our amendment, which replaces the existing Article 27, as proposed by the government. I am convinced that the adoption of this amendment would, on the one hand, ease some of the tensions that now arise needlessly in the debate under this law, so that, at the same time, it would, of course, cancel some of the problems that are and are also related to the constitutional dispute between some of the criteria set out in Article 27 in order to allow Slovenian citizens and citizens to decide freely, voluntarily, within the framework of the taxed income which the religious community will receive from their income. So directly citizens and citizens would decide on this, not politics, not officials, not any office. This would, of course, at the same time address the need for any additional criterion as it appears here in this article. The only criterion would be the decision of citizens and citizens. I would like to point out that we now have a unique opportunity and the opportunity to arrange this funding to an appropriate extent, and therefore I call on all of you, even given that this type of system and model of funding has received the support of some religious communities in Slovenia to support this amendment, and in this way we really take advantage of this opportunity to fully regulate the system of financing of religious communities in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Testen's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Hello, Prime Minister, representative of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! I will not personally support this amendment in our Group of Members, especially for the following reasons. This amendment, proposed by the LDS, changes the mode of funding and we are of the opinion that this should be defined through the budget and through financial laws and that it would have what impact on the budget, especially because we consider it to be a grave estimate that this would represent significantly more resources than the current proposal. According to our calculations, this would represent approximately two billion funds for the budget. This is also in stark contrast to what your fellow Member, or LDS, has proposed, Mr Gulič, who has limited the funds to the level that has been covered so far. Regarding comparability with Italy, I agree that Italy has a similar system, but in Italy everyone pays in this percentage, defined and also undefined. So 0.8% for religious communities are paid by all those, of course, on the basis of the number when individuals were identified as individual religious communities. As far as the financing of religious communities is concerned, we also feel that the church or the religious community is doing so good for this society that if we finance all other civil society, it is also necessary to finance the church. However, I would mention just a few things, regardless of the fact that we have a church or a religion separate from the country in which the church makes a significant contribution and does a large part of the work for the country as well. This is mainly education, child care, education, social work, charitable activity and, in recent times, a great deal in the field of employment. In view of the fact that the church has received some property returned, it employs a number of people, who are sure to be positive and partially solve the problem of the state. It should also be said that all European countries have some form of religious tax or contribution to the financing of religious communities. In comparison, let me say that if we had similar arrangements in Slovenia, we are like Hungary after the constitution, so that almost ten times more from the Slovenian budget than it is now, about 5 billion tolars. This way we will not support the LDS amendment, but we will support the basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mag. Robbery signed up for the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u132	I'm sorry, but maybe some of these replicas would be good to explain. First of all, Mr Testen, you note that this model, which we are proposing, brings a greater amount of funding to religious communities than the one now on the table. On the other hand, you explain the good work done by religious communities, all their activities, and the right thing for them to do. I don't understand why we wouldn't support a proposal that allows for more funding, because you, too, agree that religious communities deserve, at least when we are talking about these areas, a greater amount of funding to finance their activities. In particular, I would like to respond to this part of the financing. Spain and Italy, these two cases speak, at least the experience in these two cases shows that the decisions of all citizens and citizens are true, and you are right, everyone is making a decision. We also propose that all citizens and citizens decide whether part of their already-accounted income will be allocated to religious communities or not. And in the case of Spain and Italy, this percentage appears to be somewhere between 40% and 60%. I do not know how much in Slovenia a citizen and a citizen would decide to go to religious communities for this part of their income, but we can assume that between 40% and 50% of citizens and citizens would decide that this is a religious community, and half of them would probably be non-profit activities, this is a matter of further legislation: either for the Red Cross or for the Karitas or for anything else that is already defined. Therefore, it is clear from this out that the volume of funds, in this case for all religious communities, and the larger number of religious communities in this case would have received funds, not only those that satisfy this criterion, which is now in this law, which has a criterion of thousands of believers, would have been the extent of these funds, you rightly said, a billion 974. This is this amount of income, which accounts for 0.6% and that means, in other words, that we could speak about 800 to 900 million Slovenian tolars. So, indeed, the volume of funds is actually greater, the way in which funds are determined and the purpose of these funds is significantly more democratic, the religious communities are significantly more equal and the majority of these activities could, of course, develop what you have been talking about, to the extent that such an amendment has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Testen, as you know, there's no replica to the replica. Of course, I can write you among the debaters, only of course at the bottom of the list. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Allow the honourable present to take advantage of the national party's protest against the inactive or more agnorant role of Mr Čepar in relation to Parliament for the introduction. All those who were on the labour force, either as members or as Members and Members of Parliament, could experience an incomprehensible relationship based on my assessment, without answering questions from Members for this or any other reason. I believe, like my fellow Members, in communication, and above all we believe that questions need to be answered, on the dilemmas raised, and whether the applicant considers them to be in place or inappropriate, to answer them. Probably the goal of all of us to do our best [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u135	Comrade Peca, this is more a procedural proposal than a debate on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u136	I will proceed immediately to the debate on the amendment and the submission of views, but I think it is so important in the framework of the parliamentary procedure that it is also important to draw attention to the executive knowledge of the authorities that it must and must participate in the process itself in the form of communication. Of course, I don't think that happened. Now let us talk about the amendment to Article 27 and about funding. So, within Europe, we know more how to finance religious communities, the church, whether they are financed by the state or financed by members of the individual church themselves. The fact is that Europe leaves this to domestic legislation, and as this national assembly will decide on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will have it in this country. At the same time, we must not forget that our decision must be to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of separation, underlining the separation between the state and the church. But separation is not only a one-way street, it is also a form of separation that carries the funding behind it. It's about funding. According to our assessment of the existing funding system in Slovenia, or the proposal, as envisaged by the basic law, that is, the proposed law, is based on non-compliance - at least an individual member or non-member of an individual religious community. The fact is that today citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are all in the same form subject and must finance the most Roman Catholic Church or any other religious community in our country. And that's just not right. Faith is a matter of the individual. The financing of faith must therefore remain in the hands of an individual. It is not right that through the general taxes within our country, when we fill the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, then that money is financed by religious communities. Once again, faith is and must remain a matter of one's own. As a result, funding must remain in this domain. As you probably know, the financing of religious communities was one of the main reasons for the denationalisation introduced a while ago. Denationalisation is a source of funding for religious communities. During the first years of Slovenian independence, this was repeatedly stressed by the current government that, at the very least, the Roman Catholic Church would, under the terms "help" from the previous regime, so it will receive a huge amount of property and this property consists of funding. On the other hand, we know that there is a funding system, not only that that comes from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but especially that which is hidden part of the financing that we cannot conceal. The fact is that religious communities are financed in a so-called grey way, either by means of collections or at least by obtaining funding for various tasks carried out by religious communities. This money is not known in our country, although it should be, but it has not yet been a policy or a Slovenian government that hopes to step on such a grey economy. We probably all know why - because of the number of members of the largest religious community in our country. But continuing to let go of this typical example of the gray economy that's taking place in front of all of us. And it is of course very interesting to establish or to set a parallel between an individual citizen, a citizen, at least a natural, legal person who is subject to tax control at all times and everywhere. But when it comes to an individual, physically or legally, as I said before, he will also be subject to sanctions. In the case of an institution of a religious community - we all know that this is happening - no one triggers a claim, let alone sanctions. According to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the aim is to increase the share of funding or co-financing, as foreseen by the aforementioned law, which is, of course, a significant shift from so far or to the constitutional provision of separation. The former 41.7% co-financing amounted to some amount that was contrary to separation. However, the proposal for a minimum of 60% of funding, ladies and gentlemen, means that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be minimally financed in 60%, but can be in 70%, 80%, 90% or 100%. The drafters probably know and probably all of us, each of us knows that from now on, depending on what composition is in the legislative branch of power and not least what the executive authority is, we know or express the concern that the financing of the most powerful religious community will go exclusively to 100% within the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which means an even stronger shift, or a complete denial of the constitutional provision on the separation of the church and the state. In the framework of the amendment signed today by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club on our food or amendment, we must say that this amendment also does not guarantee full respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. While it is much, much, much better than a dictatorship in the bill, this amendment under fiscal policy led by the State, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, does not guarantee separation. And in doing so, let it come from a lack of confidence in the proposer, that is, the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, or whether it stems from a deliberate, malicious, flat-out, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the politically incorrect speech of Mr Tonet Rope, who says that this proposal is much better than the so-called church tax. Why? Because Slovenia doesn't need a new tax? Please! The proposal we have offered you in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group does not talk about tax, and I believe that we all know here that church tax is not a tax under the strict meaning of the word. This is not a general tax, so talk about whether, under the acceptance of the model, Slovenia, as we offer it to you, or whether we offer it to you not long ago on your home working body, we introduce a new tax - gentlemen and ladies, that is a lie. And I'm sorry that this kind of lies are also being embraced by the leader of the biggest opposition party. The fact is that we are talking about a voluntary contribution, a system that allows strict respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of separation and the financing of religious communities, of all religious communities. Within the framework of the National Party, we have proposed to you, within the framework of - or better said in the area of financing - a system that would allow every citizen, every citizen and citizen to choose for a period of five years whether to be subject to this contribution within five years or not. If a citizen and a citizen decide that he is not a member of a religious community and that he will not pay this contribution, which is simply called a tax, but otherwise it is not a tax, the story for him ends here and he would not bear a tolar of the costs for the functioning of religious communities. I would therefore like to point out once again: it has been most improperly expressed by the Prime Minister, who says that Slovenia is not mature for new taxes, as by Mr Toneto Rope, who is misleading in this way. But as you decided in the parties that you were in power today or before, you did not support a solution that strictly respects the constitutional category of separation between the state and the church. We're sorry. But given that we have an amendment to Article 27 today, I said it is better than a bill. The bill is catastrophic in relation to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It denies the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, although it should not be based on the hierarchy of legal acts in force in the Republic of Slovenia. From this title, we will support the proposal coming from the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, but to conclude, colleague Tone Rop, we would expect little correctness on your part, especially when you mention the so-called German model as a mandatory tax. You yourself know that we are not talking about a tax in an acute sense or in a narrow sense the importance of fiscal policy. It's a voluntary contribution. This option was given by the National Assembly to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Robbery's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u138	Of course, I have to give you a replica. So I did not mention in my words the SNS or the proposal of the Slovenian National Party. Today I am talking about our proposal, I am talking about a government proposal, but I am talking about a German model in the part where some call it church tax. In fact, even if a voluntary contribution of some kind is introduced and taken into account in the case of a tax relief after that, and the calculation of a tax relief, the relative tax burden on income is reduced and, on the other hand, the tax or contribution is paid as this is irrelevant. So my desire and purpose today is not really to politicize anyone here, but I am sure that if we look at all the proposed models: either German, or Austrian, or Italian and Spanish, and this is ours, that this proposal we are proposing here is the one that gives the most freedom, the most equality and is most suitable for the Slovenian situation. We talked about this proposal years ago, and I think it was there somewhere since 1993, 1994 that this proposal and the discussion about it continued. This will also be said by Dr. Chapar, even at the time of the previous government, when we discussed it, this has occurred and unfortunately we have not come with this law, we are running out of time. And I just wanted to tell you, now is the opportunity and the opportunity to introduce for Slovenia, in my opinion, according to our assessment, the best possible model - but of course one of the models that is possible, including the one proposed by the SNS, and I believe that this proposal proposed by the SNS is better than that currently proposed by the government. So, that's all I wanted to say, attack no one, just promote our amendment and apologize to everyone who's possibly offended by it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u139	My friend Peca, would you like to talk about using the procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u140	Procedurally, if you please, Vice President. Thank you. Of course, I think it would make sense for the presidents, in this case and in the given situation, you, my colleague Paulich, to warn the speaker, when he tries, in my opinion, to point out once again, the incorrect way to point out the false. The fact is, colleague Tone Rop was talking about a German model. And the fact is that the German model tried to introduce the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group into the parliamentary procedure. So to say that this is a classic tax and that Slovenia is not mature for taxes, forgive me, this is a lie. According to my assessment, you - and this follows my procedural proposal - are obliged to warn the speaker when he manipulates not only the national assembly but the Slovenian public in this way. Mr. Tone Rop manipulated compulsory taxes in the form of a German system [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u141	Mr. Peche, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u142	We're not talking about a mandatory tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u143	Mr. Pache, it's already a polymaze or replica to the replica. I don't have to give it to Mr. Robb at this point. However, let me say that I do not have entirely any jurisdiction under the Rules of Procedure to be an arbitrator on whether or not someone is telling the truth or stating the correct information or not. You know yourself that you are asking me to do something that is impossible and which is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We continue to discuss Article 27 and the LDS amendment. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much. It is probably right to remind colleagues that the ruling coalition has decided to leave us with very few opportunities for a real debate at the meeting of the National Assembly, and above all very few opportunities for a real change of the already prepared law. On the basis of the amendments that the opposition parliamentary groups have made for the second treatment in the home working body, the coalition, together with the government, has decided not to accept anything in practice, so it has opened or allowed us to discuss only two articles today and amendments to these two articles, because there is no other possibility. On behalf of the Social Democrats, I do not wish to diminish in any sense the importance of Article 27 and the debate on it, but I would like to point out that this is not the only article that determines the situation of this law and the position of the religious communities of the Constitution, that it is very important but not the only one, and that many other issues are those which, in terms of the debate of the Social Democrats, have been controversial and which have not incorporated the law on religious freedom into our constitutional system. The 27th article, which we have a formal opportunity to discuss, is clearly one that does not take into account the separation of the State and the religious communities and means the privileges given by law to religious communities. None of us in Social Democracy thinks that religious communities in the work of their activities are also carrying out a socially beneficial mission, that they are engaged in this activity in cultural, humanitarian, partly educational, educational and other fields, and that they have the right to compete in this work in the same way as other civil society and civil society organisations also for the resources of the State budget. However, in our opinion, as well as other civil society organisations, to compete and on the basis of the calls made by the State or individual ministries for programmes that the State deem useful and necessary. But not in advance, flatly, with pre-defined definitions, by providing funding according to the criterion of the size of the individual religious community, to indicate in advance where the State will co-finance the religious community, not only through contributions, but also through activities in the military, in the police, in prisons, in homes for the elderly and in others, I would say, homes where freedom of movement is limited and where it is now envisaged not only to ensure that religious activity, expression and belief in them can be carried out, but also to finance a religious servant, a priest who would operate in these institutions, especially for individual religious communities, because otherwise, this cannot be easily done by the criterion of size. These forms of funding, according to our belief, go beyond the principle of separation between the State and the Church and are already clearly demonstrated in practice. What happened to us in the regulation, which was adopted by the Defence Act unfortunately in the previous government, which gives the Kurat military or other military personnel the right and the power to conclude marriages, to carry out baptisms, to perform funerals and similar for all, not only soldiers and not only those who are limited to the possibility of professing faith, which would be fine, but to anyone who does not have any limitations, these are my business, which goes through the Constitution and goes also through the Vatican Agreement. I agree that the financing of religious communities is also important in terms of property and the way in which this property is taxed. There is no doubt about it, I have talked about it too many times, always without success, otherwise something would have been changed, that the Roman Catholic Church, through denationalisation, had received huge assets. And recently we were able to read in the media of public information how this property is taxed - a very short answer was, very little or almost nothing. And there are also privileges in this area, even though the apparent system of taxation is even for religious communities, but only seemingly, nothing is actually paid. So this is about the funding system, and we will be the proposal that the Liberal Democracy has supported as the only opportunity to open up the debate on the law at all, but we firmly believe that the law is entirely at issue on many other points from the constitutional point of view, and we have also said this in the debate on the working body, but now we do not want to abuse the right of speech that we have in this amendment, and on all other equally important issues of the inadmissibility of this law to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Maybe it's useful to read the list of applicants so far. For the discussion of Article 27 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, namely: Gulič, Jelinčič Plemeniti, Irgl, Testen, Mag. Grims, Bones, Kumer and Friend. Looks like I let Mr. Rezman down, Mr. Rope, mag. The gendarmes and, as it is said, this is a current list that can change over and over again. I'm going to read again that I didn't let anyone go, but, as I said, this list isn't complete while it's allowing us time. So, Gulic, Elinčič noble, Irgle, Testen, mag. Grims, Kokalj, Kumer, Friend, Rezman, Rob, Ljublješek and Shirca. I'm not gonna read it again, then we'll find out if anyone else is missing. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u146	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The amendment that we have drafted in the Liberal Democracy has, of course, come about after careful consideration. I must say that we had in mind, of course, when we tried to solve what we could, even the German model, but we saw that it was too complicated when citizens and citizens had to decide what they should not pay. That's why we've gone into this more open, more favored, kind form of citizens when they can only decide each year who they're going to spend their money on. Why this was not the case in the previous law, I am obliged to answer Mr Testen, who says that I have maintained the state of the existing law. That is not true, of course, in my proposal for a law on financing it was not at all. It was not because everyone I consulted with, but also Mr Sturm himself said, which we do consider to be the author of this law, which we are talking about today, that financial matters in the law on religious freedom do not have anything to do. Well, when we got his proposal in hand, we saw that we had something to do to write it down, namely, he wrote in such a way that it did establish the necessity of communication, annual communication between state and church authorities. In fact, the rule that says at least 60% opens up the possibility of up to 150% with some dead souls and false data. At least 60 does not mean then a decision that would be very clear budgetaryly, but they will agree each year whether it is 65, 62, of course not, whether it is 58%. However, the proposal made by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is constitutionally very clear, since the country is no longer the one deciding how much money will go to any of the religious communities, but is decided by the citizens. The law shall be laid down and the State shall then perform only some financial-accounting services to individual religious communities, which shall be equivalent at least to the start; whereas the article of this law shall be treated differently for different purposes. It's about as if a good chess player went to play with a bad chess player and demanded a queen of advantage from him. Mr. Sturm will understand that well when he reads this magnetogram. In fact, there is no equality at the beginning of the religious community, and this article, even though it speaks of financing, speaks very much about the equality of religious communities, but very much about religious freedom. These two issues are also being initiated through this Article and the proposal of the Liberal Democracy is such that it tries to remedy this matter, and so it must be seen. It is true that the law before us, at least in the 20 articles, is such that it establishes the Slovenian Constitution, but it is certainly the most accurate one when it speaks of financial matters that are determined in relation to the State and the religious communities. When we proposed our law, we had in mind the law on religious freedom on the one hand and on the other, which was prepared to talk about the financing of religious communities - as well as what obligations religious communities should have, as well as other real entities in the country - precisely because things were clean, clear that they would not continue to see something, anticipate, suspect and so on. But, no! This marriage wants to cloud things even more, make things worse. True, it speaks of 480 million or something for contributions to dedicated persons, of course by saying that this goes not to dedicated persons, but directly to social funds. Yeah, yeah, it already is, but it's putting them off the hook! It's such a big larifari. The other thing is: in all this money, when it comes to financial consequences, not all that goes through the Ministry of Defence, which will go through the Ministry of the Interior, to health care, and I don't know who else, who, according to their own opinion, assess when the number, say, of patients in hospitals is so great that they should have a dedicated person there on a regular basis. We don't know if it's one person, two, or even a potential one. We don't know. That's left over. It's an appropriate number. That is precisely why we wanted to bring this amendment into the constitutional framework, but we were rejected on the Committee on Internal Policy in everything, but this article remained open and we are trying to settle this issue here. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the matter is worth considering, deep reflection. It's an important matter, it's the freedom of believers and believers, not just the freedom of institutions. People are, I hope, still the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The undeniable fact is that the government has decided that the government will "put this law through" and no matter what we say here. The fact is also that the government does not want to regulate matters and settle matters in a transparent way, in the first place financially transparent and even equally, because, in so far as it is prepared for such a move, it would accept the Slovenian National Party's proposal for a so-called church tax, which, of course, Mr Rop does not understand, but should at least be understood by the government as "terminus specialis". The fact is that funding is not regulated in any way and this amendment to Article 27 does not regulate financing as it should. For in it it says that a portion of the income is spent for the purpose of financing the religious communities. What if someone doesn't want his money to go into a religious community, but to go into, say, sports societies, some kind of kindergarten or something? Here we should leave open our own choices to people and the possibility of expressing our own will. On the other hand, that law on the so-called church tax would also avoid the numbering of members of individual religious communities. The fact is that we have four traditional religions in Slovenia. This is Roman Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox and Jewish. It's traditional. The rest were brought in later. But if we had a basis for this so-called church tax, people would make their own decisions and certain religious differences, as we might call them, would fall away. And in this way the matter would also be crystallized - but, no, the government is not up to it now! However, something has to be said that even the previous government, which was led by Mr. Rob for some time, did not do so, and the biggest fault for the unregulated situation is in the previous government, because the former government under the command of Mr. Drnovska, who has now adopted some different concepts of thinking and poured his feet with Indian water and with the lovreate of Polish flowers on his head [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u149	Mr. Jelinčič, please, this has nothing to do with the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u150	He walks around and makes the country laugh. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u151	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u152	And he's making a mess of the country. It was this gentleman who arranged the signing of the Vatican Agreement. And we have only heard warnings from the Slovenian National Party, by the LDS, about the mockery and the statement that we do not understand anything. Today it turns out that only the Slovenian National Party understood "where dog taco prays", so in fact we are disturbed by this sanctification and the transformation by the Liberal Democracy which tabled this amendment. The fact is, we're going to support this amendment, because it's better than nothing, but I'm asking you nicely, but this is about duality. You are so, tomorrow otherwise, because in the previous rule, the Roman Catholic Church was to a certain extent an important support to the rule of Mr Drnovsk, Mr Rope and the other gentlemen. Today, when they are in opposition, that is no longer the case, and now we will speak differently. Keep them consistent. The Slovenian national party has always advocated the same principles and the same guidelines and will and will not change them. Once again, we will support this amendment because it is still better than what it was, but such speculation that someone is now saving and that the biggest opposition party is solving the situation when they themselves know that the amendment will not be accepted is, in fact, sand in the eyes, even worse in the eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mag. Robbery's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u154	Of course, thank you very much, Mr President. I deeply regret that this is happening, which is happening instead of discussing this proposal and that we can promote it and accept it, we are now witnessing some kind of attack by two representatives of the SNS into me and the previous government, as is quite normal, instead of looking at the material that we all have, that is, the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of 20.12., which is talking about the financing of religious communities. I repeat, what they're talking about is not a German system, and it's some system you're interpreting, and they say I'm speaking against it. So I'm not even dealing with what they're saying, but I'm talking about the proposal that we've proposed and is summarised by the Italian solution. On the eighth page, it says very nicely that this is part of the income tax, this material, you can read it, but if you look at the German model in this material, which is obviously not the model that Jelinčič and Peca are talking about, it says: "In this country, the church is up to 80% financed by church tax. In addition to the usual tax on income, church tax should also be paid at a rate of 8 percent and 9 percent of the tax on income. The amount of paid church tax also means one form of reduction of the base for the tax on income." That's exactly what I was talking about earlier, and now I'm reading to you because you've been saying that I'm saying something that I don't hold -- so on the 12th page of this material, it's like we're talking to ghosts, and then on the 14th page, there's a special arrangement in Bavaria where it says. As an example of the country's tax law, we represent the law on the church tax of the federal state of Bavaria, its full name is the law on collection of taxes through church religious and secular communities. I quote: "In order to leave the church, which means the termination of the tax obligation, a declaration must be made at the home office, which must also be verified." So, what I'm explaining here is that, in my opinion, the arrangements they have in Germany, not the arrangements they advocate here, are inadequate. That's why I didn't mention in a word what they represent. So you can read it on these pages and it'll all be clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, read for God's sake Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows replication only in exceptional cases and in my opinion this exceptional case is not fulfilled. And I'm asking Mr. Pečet if you have a replica of Mr. Jelinčič. Because it's the only possible business trick I can say. Mr. Pece, who do you have a replica of? You can't have Mr. Rope on you. All right, Mr. Jelinčič, even though we both know you're playing the rules of procedure, I'll give you my word. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Jelinčič, don't make me use those articles. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u156	Please, I'm here. I'm waiting for the use of coerced funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. My fellow Member, Victory Jelinčič, has rightly highlighted all three foundations, but my colleague Rob regrets them, I don't want to be insulting, I really don't, he didn't get it. We are also very sorry that we are dealing with such a matter, but because it is only our assessment of the malicious fabrication of the National Party's proposal that we have to respond to it. Whoever listened well to Ambassador Toneto Ropa, heard that this tax was subject to "members of the church" and here is a fundamental difference. People have the opportunity to decide whether or not they are members of an individual religious community. If citizens and citizens do not decide to be members, they are not obliged to bear any cost of financing this. If people choose to do so, then they finance, but the decision is on the part of the people, citizens and citizens, and this is the desire and sole purpose of the National Party proposal. That's why we can't possibly agree to the theory that he advocates and, in my opinion, intentionally, maliciously, Mr. Tone Rope when he speaks [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u158	Mr. Pache, what kind of replica is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u160	Good. You know better than that, but what am I supposed to do? I ask you nicely for peace in the hall if I don't stop this meeting. The word has magic. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. I must say that I am already having a bit of fun when I look at the difficulties of defending this amendment by my opposition colleagues, because they themselves know that the objective of this amendment is not exactly as it has been officially declared, so of course they do not find the right words, the right terms or the right arguments. This amendment actually has one goal: to continue the red thread that we have been looking at in this House for a year and a half before, we have been looking at it all since independence, and we have been looking at it in various so-called social political areas for several decades. This is the continuation of the cultural struggle, the cultural struggle in the most negative meaning of the word, which means promoting prejudices, playing emotions, that is, in people against the church, against believers, against the values that religion brings. This has been done in the history of systematic, long-term and inoculation at all levels of education, at all levels of social life. Slowly, this Marks, or Cardel, or whatever you say to him, plunged people into their heads and a prejudice was born. Prejudice that stirs emotions the moment a believer mentions himself [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u162	Mag. Grims, can you explain the connection? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u163	I'll explain, mate, please, what Mr. Pavliha's patience allows us to do so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u164	Nevertheless, we try to remain within the framework of Article 27 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u165	This article is precisely what I am talking about, the arguments and problems of colleagues who have proposed this when they advocate this article. I'll be right back. Why this reanimate cultural struggle is so negative - because it excludes one part of the development potentials of Slovenia, has eliminated them through history and tries to still ideologically, politically eliminate them through its reanimation over and over again. Before each election, a bone appears, before every election, the thing that is kept silent in the part of the Slovenian political scene, the one that could be called ultralevic, it is a cultural struggle. This is aimed at two objectives. The first is, the discreditation of those who think otherwise, the second is to encourage the mobilisation of their electorate to go to the elections and vote in accordance with the wishes of those who have repeatedly become engrossed in the cultural struggle. This amendment, I am firmly convinced, even after the evaluation of the applicants, as has already been said today, has no opportunity to receive and has not been so meaningful, but has achieved its goal the moment it was tabled: it opens up new possibilities for reviving the cultural fight. All I have to say in person is that I regret this kind of policy, which is constantly appearing in this National Assembly. I personally regret that this way, through the side door, is attempted to enter into the marriage if, by any accident, this amendment was adopted. What's this all about? For that effect, which the proposer has already refused in his words, this is the effect of counting, because wherever in Europe they have a legal regime allowing them to count, some volunteering, payment of taxes, some formal decision or anything else in this direction, one part of the ultralevisors decides again and again in public controversy, and it abuses them to yell, see, so many and so many have been cancelled, that is to say, a reduction in influence and this is charged with a certain political effect. Under the conditions of the Slovenian political culture, which, unfortunately, is sometimes in this area, we should all do something to correct ourselves in order to change in order to actually become more European than it is, of course, such a census would be misused to an end. I hope that's clear to everyone. And that is why, of course, we certainly have no intention of contributing anything to this kind of revitalisation of the SDS cultural struggle and will vote against this amendment. Finally, it will not be too serious, but I think the side effect of this debate has been only a little positive. Whoever listened to the so-called arguments on the part of the LDS, I think it's already been broken, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I'm gonna take this chance because I didn't have a replica before. I would like to say that we agree with the concept offered by the LDS Group, and we think that the concept is in place, but we cannot agree with the amendment because of this, no, because it is too much of an intervention in the budget, I will say, an uncontrolled intervention in the budget. I would also like to draw attention to one thing that Mr Rob said in the first part of his explanation. In the first part, he said that the resources of those who did not define themselves remained in the budget, this is irrelevant, this is not an Italian model. The Italian model is to distribute the funds of those who are not defined among those - including those that are not defined - within the defined framework. This is an Italian and Spanish model. Yeah, it'll be clearer, I'd like to explain. We do not, in principle, oppose the concept itself, but we currently oppose the amendment because we also believe that this is a matter that needs to be regulated in financial laws, as Mr Gulič has said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Irgle has the floor now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will not support this amendment to Article 27 proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In particular, because I believe that the Law on Religious Freedom, which regulates the area of financing of religious communities, where we are talking in particular about this minimum social protection, is sufficiently addressing this problem of financing within this new law on religious freedom. The way of funding within the Law on Religious Freedom is, in my opinion, arranged for a substantial fight in a transparent and transparent way, as regulated by the current law, which is now 30 years old from 1976 and has since then had only two minimum corrections, if I am not mistaken, of course there are countless legal gaps, but also shortcomings, which I think the current law has addressed well enough and is also correcting. In funding or in this amendment, it is not too much or negligible to point out that the first version of the Religious Freedom Act was already under the previous government and was then planned to raise the budget support for the social security of priests to 100%. Today, under this law, this item decreases to 60%. And I don't actually see any problem why this area of funding should not be regulated in the way that is now meant within the law on religious freedom. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that there has been a partial payment of social security contributions in Slovenia for decades, and the Constitutional Court has never said that this would be contrary to the Constitution. Last but not least, even in other European countries, which also have a constitutional principle of State separation from religious communities, the State is funding this. Here, too, it is not possible to ignore the fact that, at the outset of his discussion, already colleague Testen said that the state finances many non-governmental humanitarian organisations, of course, it is right and proper, but here the clergy are also those representatives of society who are available 24 hours a day to both believers and non-believers who need their help or find themselves in distress. That is why, I believe, they are entitled to the minimum social security provided for by this law and has been present before. If we look before 1991, the aid of the State, but only part of the RCC, took place through the Cyril-Methodian Society, which we know here that the State has covered 50% of all insurance costs, but this aid was via the Cyril-Methodium Society, expressed primarily by the communist authorities using it for their Trojan horse in the structure of the church. And unfortunately, the Cyril-Methodic Society here was the one who was primarily the netulum of contention and therefore also the separation and sharing of priests. Of course, after 1991, after the independence of the Catholic Church and the Republic of Slovenia, there was a time when there was also a need to regulate matters, and obviously in 14 years we had not been able to agree on how these relations should be regulated, today we have a law on religious freedom and even within this law of regulated financing. In your discussions, some said that the principle of separation between the State and the religious communities should be respected. Of course it's true. This is what the Constitution already tells us, but the constitutionality of the Vatican Agreement, says between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See, says that taking into account equality, the true principle of separation between the State and the religious communities does not mean that any support and assistance is therefore excluded. I will not support this amendment. But I would just like to say one last thing, given that, within the framework of the Committee on Internal Policy, when we discussed the Law on Religious Freedom, much has been said about why we have a church and a religious community and not just religious communities within the Law on Religious Freedom. Dr. Stress, I think it says very well what the church means and what the religious community means. That is why I would only quote: "The Church is not only a group of equally religious people who arise because people of the same belief like to associate with each other, but is even the subject of this belief. Members of the church believe in the supernatural source and mission of their church, as they believe in other supernatural realities. In this, there is a fundamental difference between the religious community and the social phenomenon and the church, as its members understand within their faith." So in the first case, it's a sociological concept and in the second, it's a theological concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you. I invite Mr. Kokal to the floor. The others, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 27, according to my assessment, substantially changes the concept of the law itself. In view of the fact that the law completely legalises the current situation and regulates the basic situation in the area of churches and religious communities, which is also the basic purpose of the law, and finances, it is true that only the work and functioning of religious communities, which is generally beneficial, is financed. Given that the content of the amendment is strictly linked to the revenue and expenditure side, practically substantively, and that the unforeseeable assessment is mainly on the revenue side, it seems to me that the adoption of such an amendment would be highly questionable from a systemic point of view. I do not think that regulating matters in the field of security is comparable to regulating things at many other levels. It has some special status, which is reflected in our constitution. We have even heard in the debate that confession of faith is to be limited in some way. Cases of a regulation in the military, etc., have been cited, if this matter takes place without limitation, which is correct. In fact, after the Constitution, confession of faith is free, it must not be limited, and in this case it is very difficult to discuss this area as a hobby, such as a comparable hobby, which often marks the fundamental character of certain civil societies. Many times it is a hobby, but it is not comparable to belief, which is a basic human need and justice. I think it is necessary here to be extremely careful how this thing is regulated, and I think it is more right in this area that legislation follows man than to direct things forward. And I think that the law before us is a typical law that tries to summarize and formalize the situation in which we live, and in the short term also helps to make these things more orderly in one civilized and democratic country. And I think that this law, in fact, does not enforce or nullify the separation of the religious community from the state, but abolishes the definition. That's what I hope to say. On a formal level, it removes the definition and in fact enforces the constitutional principle of separation of the church from the state. Therefore, even in the debates, various observations on denationalisation, particularly from a legal mouth, seem very strange. In fact, if our country wanted to come to a club of developed, democratic, legal states, the denationalisation process had to be carried out for this reason. This was about correcting injustice. This isn't about toning someone for prestigious purposes. We do know, however, that even in this process, many legal persons or other associations in which citizens of this country are connected or connected have been harmed if we are looking at the matter objectively. Therefore, I think that real denationalisation with this law has absolutely nothing to do with it. I think that, as I mentioned at the outset, the implementation or adoption of this amendment would mean a systemic tectonic shift in the concept of the law itself, and I think that the moment has not yet come to order in such a general way, but I am sure that it will be regulated further under other legislation which will regulate both the revenue and expenditure sides of the state budget; and I believe that the law is acceptable and necessary at this point. And in fact, I would like to ask in some way to try in these decades, we all know, to remove this component from human everyday life and also from associations in some way to end it and by adopting this law, to establish a state in which we will surely have to talk about how religious communities function as associations, public associations within other segments, including fiscal policies, and also within the framework of the state budget. As I have already mentioned, I think the law itself is actually trying to formalize and legalise a state in which we are on a natural path and which is dictated by the human need. And the expenditure itself, which is often or is the greatest target, does not mean anything else in the debates but, in my opinion, symbolic support for what religious communities contribute in the wider field, not just in the narrow area of their operations. I'm only going to mention one thing that benefits everyone, just for a symbol, our hymn was cast by a priest and we all use it. And I don't think there's any way to separate the religious community from the state, but one citizen did it, and one believer with a heart, and I think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u172	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that today we have a somewhat difficult situation in the debate, because each of us is trying to back up the arguments for Article 27 with another argument, which is set out in another article, so of course some debaters have problems with patriotism and co-existing with other thinkers and talking about cultural struggles. But this is also an integral part of a democratic debate and must be viewed as such. The 27th article in the law is, of course, due to 26 preliminary definitions or decisions in this law and is the result of some "sum sumarum" preliminary definitions in this law. And so, of course, in my view, as is now stated in Article 27, in some way, the law or the inequality, injustice and non-democracy of the vision of all religious communities; or if you want the terminology of religious communities and churches. I will therefore repeat once again what I said in the general debate. The fundamental question, as well as today's discussion, is whether this law is written for believers, for their freedom of expression, association and so on; whether it is written for the institutions of religious communities or to use your word, including the church. And it is my opinion that, as this bill is written, of course, it speaks in favour of being written for institutions, not as it has the title "for religious freedom", the law on religious freedom. The freedom of action of religious communities, which would be most clearly and unequivocally regulated by this law since the previous law now in force, is not merely a defence of religious communities against the State or vice versa, countries against religious communities. Religious freedom is primarily the right to a positive status, and we must all work together to create the conditions for the exercise of this right or this positive status. This is said to be the case - even I, who was classified today among those who may say something critical and will sometimes in the Market of the Republic of the Crowd, where the Lefties will be burned, will also be there, I expect that once in this cultural fight, so I am looking at things not from negative religious freedom, it is said that I am not interested in anything, but I am looking at this positive that you have the right, and I will try to enforce this right together with you, and so I am looking at this law, and that is why in this direction we have prepared a number of amendments for the Committee, which the Coalition or the parliamentary majority, together with the proponents, have easily overruned. I think that, in Article 27, it would be much easier to speak if, of course, the religious communities and, above all, the churches did not have the privileges and would also apply to all branches of positive legislation in financial transactions and financing as is the case with all other legal entities and natural persons in that country. However, because it is this privilege that they have for these exemptions that they have on the part of the State, we are, of course, in difficulty when we want to define Article 27 in this law. In my view, therefore, once again, the State's financial contributions to religious communities on the basis of the ratio between the number of religious servants and the number of believers, or, for example, that they may be financed for social contributions only by those religious communities that have 1,000 or more and operate 80 years in this area, to me, a totally unacceptable, undemocratic and unfair system which is legal in this law, so once again I say, the beginning of the registration of religious communities, and here at the beginning, the law before the 27th paragraph we made a mistake, the registration error and, of course, this article leads to this 27th, by which they will be entitled to the participation of that State of the religious community which defines the criteria enshrined in the law. And that religious community that hasn't been registered for 10 years that doesn't work can't be registered at all, and I'm asking what it can be registered for if it's in illegal operation for 10 years, how it's going to prove that it's worked in this area for 10 years and so on. Once again, I will, of course, support this Article's minimum correction, and I will support the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, as has already been said, the LDS amendment is better than nothing, gives free judgement to the individual, who will say what and who will say what, but I think that the debate is not going in the right direction today, and I would like to say what I personally think and what the party's position is. It is clear that the constitutional provision for anyone who can read the Constitution is reasonable and that the church should be separated from the state. And when we learn why we adopt such laws, it is also unreasonable that we are creating new obligations, new injustices for those who want to be atheists in some way. The funding is going in a very strange way today. I'm talking about the Roman Catholic Church, which is the majority in our country. If you look at the budget and reverse its items, you will see that on many items the Church appears as a budget consumer. Nobody's talking about it today. To whom we forgive this tax, it is not clear. I claim that an organisation operating in Slovenia has its seat in the Vatican. Interestingly, property that has been returned does not count as anything, but if we look at a socially endangered family, if it has any real estate or any other option, it will not receive either social housing or housing. The Church requires more, requires the non-payment of lighting, the restoration of sacral buildings, because these are monuments of general and higher cultural importance, requires the collection of taxes or the non-payment of taxes due to collection, because this is not income. It also requires that, as we have witnessed today, other occupational laws, which are difficult to employ and produced by an actual theological faculty - and of course we can understand from this title something quickly, that the debt of the current government to the Vatican is great. I believe that this is also the case with the elimination factor previously stated by Mr Kumer that no one can exercise certain special rights if there are no thousands of believers and if it does not work, I do not know what time period in Slovenia as a religious organisation. That's discriminatory. If we look at other cases, you've all talked about the Italian case. You know, the Italian case knows the so-called formula of otto promile," that's 8 proms that can be allocated, quite like an amendment given by the LDS, an individual to anyone. So, you can have any church organization or humanitarian organization. It's just that you have to give something. With us, however, we force each individual to pay a church tax, just a church tax. So, the media, I believe, will be stingy today because we are also in such a "time" that what some of us have said is too difficult for the Slovenian public and will be published, as usual, only some notes and words and will be voted on in any way that the majority or the government coalition will decide. This is their mission, and they must take care of the institution that has raised them to power and has financed them in many ways in the past, so that today they can be what they are. There's something else I'd like to say if we're talking about taxes, if anyone has calculated, how much can the Church make with the real estate that it got back into possession and property. How much of this title can the Church get into the scrotum? With this, no one in our Slovenia, by the legislative and legal branch of power, wants to be stabbed because it would cause a new dilemma and a rift within the church. Moreover, the Church is present in hospitals, in the police, in the military, in my opinion, it is more possessive than the previous party. This is the Church today. Almost everywhere we talk, wherever we talk, the Church is present, even in the economy. Without these decisions, Churches, nothing is taken in Slovenia today. And that's bad for a democracy that goes from one extreme to another. Let us not allow ourselves to become compulsory taxpayers to the Church, as we once were in a single-party system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Once again, I would ask that we try to stick to Article 27 and the amendment. I don't know, mag. Grims, did you sign up for a replica or later for a discussion? Okay, I'll talk to you later. Now I give the floor to a government representative, Dr. Chapar, who has also applied to the word and can get it at any time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The amendment raises an important issue of comprehensive financing arrangements. In their open questions addressed to the government and its commission to address the open issues of religious communities, religious communities have generally raised the issue of comprehensive funding arrangements. So now the Ministry of Finance is studying these issues. The different possibilities for regulating this issue include the model used by Italy and Hungary, where the country allocates part of the income, in Italy this is 8 per cent, to religious communities in accordance with the decisions of individual debtors. The drafter of the law considers this area to be extensive and difficult. The amendment is regulated at a cost and also changes the whole concept of law in this area. This area needs to be regulated in tax legislation. The Law on Religious Freedom does not have the ambition to deal with this issue in its entirety, but by rejecting the adoption of an amendment, which simultaneously completely eliminates the co-financing of contributions to the social security of priests, which has been going on for decades, by no means rejects the ideas themselves and further analyses of this possibility. Any new rules to regulate this will also need to regulate, inter alia, the transition from the current model to a possible new model. The adoption of the proposed law, which is essential, does not in any way impede further work on the development of the proposed income model.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We continue with the other applicants and invite Mr Rezman to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I will tell you in the introduction that I have strong concerns when it comes to supporting the LDS amendment, even though I will support it and that I do not intend to support, of course, the law itself, which, in my judgment, is bad and I will vote against it. I have doubts about the amendment to Article 27, which the LDS is proposing for the sake of this, because it seems to me that, in their intention, they are not consistent, that they have not carried out the ambition they have to the end. If it were to be carried out to the end, then perhaps it would be the result that it would be right for all those who have ambition to engage religiously in one way or another to take care of self-financing and not to burden others who are either different believers in or do not believe. This is what it is about funding. My basic point. Since Dr. Chapar has spoken, and someone else has already said that it is not the ambition of this law to speak so much about financing, let me say that it seems to me that this law is more of a law on financing religious activity than a law on religious freedom. Religious freedom is relatively little written in this law; what rights a person has, what finances a person is entitled to, what rights he has in spatial planning or what requirements he can even refer to, and what is written about it is significantly more, and about two thirds of the law is written in this sense. Also, the fact that I am not sure that the title itself, which says that it is a law on religious freedom, says that it covers the content of this law, is why I do not think that the law is the most appropriate. I am also convinced, among other things, that this is actually about cross-financing. I do not support that part of the LDS amendment, which speaks of the fact that part of the income would have to be set aside in such a way, instead of in the state budget, in the churches and in the religious communities, because the relevant gap will arise in the religious budget and it will have to be charged either with another tax or something that has been planned will not be implemented because there will no longer be a source of the individual task or project. That I'm going to do a little more caricature towards the end, even though that's what the bill says. I'm not sure that, for example, those who think that a complete love for a woman is something great, that it is even the first need to finance celibacy, I'm not sure that those who think that a person should be up to it every day to make sure that he is as low as possible at the burden of society, to take care of the apartment, to care for another material [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I am not sure that those who are committed to thinking with their heads must finance those who are bound by obedience, and that is why I cannot support this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Ljubeljski.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that today's debate on a very sensitive subject, such as this bill, takes place in a tolerant manner in the spirit of dialogue, mutual respect, regardless of the different views on this subject. It flows mostly from state origins and not ideological. The basis of my discussions and even today's is that, in my opinion, the country must be globally neutral and as far away from religion as it is from atheism. I do not support the amendment to Article 27 because it seeks to introduce a completely new model of funding that is not tested, which does not give clear and concrete calculations, pluses and minuses at the moment. Other models are possible, we have also heard about one in today's debate and each model has advantages as well as weaknesses. At this point in time, deciding which one is better is simply irresponsible, so I come from other sources in this debate. The Slovenian Constitution lays down the principle of the social state and is thus placed in a position to ensure constitutionally the existence and functioning of various parts of civil society, institutions and associations, and religious communities should also have equal legal positions with all other non-state communities. In compliance with this principle, it has already been stipulated in the current 30-year law that the State has partly financed social contributions and contributions to the health insurance of priests and other dedicated persons of religious communities, which is also enshrined in the proposal for a new law, which is contrary to the amendment. It would be difficult to deny that these people do not have an important role in meeting the human need for spirituality and other activities that are important in our society, as there is probably no one among us who would not agree to 100% funding the same contributions to culture and art. It is also because we believe that they are important, necessary and indispensable in our society. Therefore, the argument that we are not all members of such or otherwise religious communities in the country, and we are all contributing from the budget to the partial payment of social security contributions to the clergy, certainly not for this reason, because we are not all members of such and different sports, cultural and all other societies, civil associations, peace institutions, etc., and we all contribute to the satisfaction of all of these from the budget. I have never heard of a believer who would therefore protest and demand a change of laws, a introduction of special taxes or such and other financing models as they know in other countries. People are looking for different meanings of life, one in material things, one in culture, another in sport, and some in faith; and this plurality enriches our society and these are the fundamental foundations of democracy. We have a feeling that we would like to deny that religious communities and churches are an important part of civil society and public life, and it is therefore necessary to do everything, such an impression, after all the amendments tabled, even today, that due to the widest possible operation of the religious community and the church. While our Constitution lays down the principle of State separation from religious communities, which does not mean, in my firm belief, the absence of funding, nor is it because the State and religious communities have to deal with the same people, so ignoring and dissuading religious communities would also mean ignoring an important part of civil society. I argue that today is no longer the time to eliminate this part of civil society and public life, nor is it the time for new ideological disputes, on the contrary, our principles should be based on the coexistence of the State and the church and religious communities, which are, therefore, accepted in Europe, based only on respect and respect. Therefore, I believe that the current funding method is sufficiently transparent, transparent, tested and based on the criteria set out in this proposal. However, it will be possible to introduce another model of funding in this or in another law in the future with the amendment of the law, but after a preliminary thorough and qualitative assessment and simulation of solutions and consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Now she has the word, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u183	Article 27 and cultural struggle. It's not about the cultural fight here in Parliament today, it's about an interesting fight. And if that famous scene of Jesus were repeated in the temple with money merchants, perhaps some coins would have jumped into the air. Why I am talking about an interesting fight because this interesting fight is already constant, it has turned around in the last year around a number of laws that introduce certain, in the notes I will say or you would say so-called ratings, but yet some new ways where the church enters into a field that was given to the state and which is by way of a stop also separate from the church, the state. Today we have about 9 resources from which the country comes and feeds and finances, and most of them are state resources, that is true revenue for €220 million worth of property, social contributions, the payment of employment of priests in state institutions, the grey economy, donations, the payment of cultural goods and so on. Co-financing, as the current 27th article says, which, of course, I reject, because I support the new amendment, ours, with the current government draft, by co-financing priests, which is even more legalized and settled into this world of Slovenian space, the Church is even more reliant on the country, not moving away from it. That's a fact. After all, despite the fact that today, due to these 220 million euro worth of returned assets, it has fewer reasons to do so. But the country needs this connection to a greater concentration of the church on the state. This is undoubtedly true, it needs because the church benefits it; and here is the whole reason for all these different interventions of the state and the acquisition of the church on its side lately. Clearly the other way around. The Church needs a state. This is a mutual relationship that you have considered and you will get it, and this is not a cultural fight, this is an interesting fight. The church says it is poor and should therefore be financed from the state budget. If it is so poor, why is it not to pay social contributions as well as paying priests in public services, why does it not, for example, bind this social contribution to property, as is not a proper comparison, but I will use it, as are cultural people, who also have paid a certain share of social contributions from the state budget, as they are bound, not to property, but to what they create, to their censorship, if they earn more, they lose it. No, no, no. Here, of course, these beneficiaries of your 27th article will be able to obtain this at least and more. They'll get more than that. Let me also say that comparison with cultural workers is not meaningful, because we know that culture is not separate from the country, but I am talking about more, I understand that the country supports investment in cultural monuments through public calls and through its recognised national interest, it does, and it does, to a greater extent, than you can admit, and as much as you can admit, it is right. But now I want to say that we are going one step further everywhere, now with one article 26, I forgive myself, the chairman, mention this further, Article 26, and what happens, is being paid, will intervene in the construction in such a way that even the builder of the spatial act will have to adapt to the wishes of the Church or the church institutions and put an object there that will be recognized by the church. Well, in this sense it is necessary to set up a distinction, the distinction was within this possibility that we had, it is now on the table, it is made by a solution that makes sense for this financing, which is now or only possible to speak about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I think he's got the word "magic." Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you. Article 27, or the amendment to this article, cannot be supported, nor can I support the article itself, i.e. I am sure that the correction of one article cannot correct a bad law as a whole, which of course means some kind of cultural struggle, but in one other sense, as has been said here today. The cultural struggle itself, I have never started, but it has been done by some representatives of the Church not long ago, without the need of of course and with much ingenuity in the sense that it can always be reopened in the way it is. Well, what I'm saying is that the financing of religious communities, as provided for in this law, means discrimination against those who are too few or who do not wish to be listed or who do not wish to make their religious beliefs clear, as guaranteed by the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution, and, of course, through this law they do not have rights, which means certainly a civilization, that I am not talking about the years that are necessary for a religious community to exist and have some rights. When we talk about the 1980s, it is necessary to know that average men in our country live 72.9 years, and in this way they would never come into line with their faith, even if there were so many more, so that it is not possible to accept the principle that only the religious community, which goes on the list with its adult members, will have the right to co-financing, when this does not apply to the largest religious community, which, of course, exploits the current authority without DeSUS, to carry out these kinds of discrimination within the religious communities on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the largest church, which probably demanded such solutions, also acts of violence against its own believers, who are placed in a position to carry out, in the presence of financing of its religious community, in a variety of forms, are not guilty of being required to do so also by all other members of the religious communities, who are too few and do not wish to do so, because they are in any way they are in question, or are not in any way that they are not in any way liable to do so. The moment that any religious community reaches into my pocket, then my freedom has been established, and in this sense the constitutional principle that human rights under this constitution or religious freedom are restricted to the right that nothing costs me anything that I care about. Of course, I don't mean to say that I don't have any conviction, but I don't want it, and I don't have to publicize it. At least because I'm going to get some material rights from others who don't care about my business. I think it should be said that the comparison of the eligibility of participation in the national budget as a civil society does not contain any criticism or criticism. Because it is a civil society by status, which is separate from the state on the one hand, and on the other hand, when it participates in a hunting society and the camps for state resources, it also participates in an absolute and religious community for these types of activities, which we support and have nothing to do with. This must be very real and seriously used as an argument when it is, but in this case it certainly is not. Surely it is also impossible to read to us who think otherwise and see this problem, non-civilizational behavior. As far as civilization is concerned, we know who was burning someone on the pile just because he said the earth wasn't round and that the believers would fall down if they walked right to the edge of the flat world. In this sense, I reject any credit for the development of civilisation in the sense that those who do not believe in any dogma or story would just block it. I have never counted myself in that group that would be against any belief, but we defend and defend the right to freedom in the sense that it is every private thing that can, if it wants, remain so, and the rights of others are not concerned. From this point of view, we believe that the amendment would not solve the problem, but even less allow for the resistance to this law, which is unconstitutional and, as such, will have an adequate constitutional judgment. It may not be wrong to say that I do not see a solution in the Italian model of financing, because the part that someone would devote to the religious community in their compulsory part of income in the budget for everything else is missing and automatically concerns covering the deficit of all those others who are not interested in any religious belief again, any religious community, or unjustifiably also those who are too few who do not want to be listed, as this law requires, for only one and not for those who are the most and we can do what we want if those who are in the minority are right or wrong. And from this point of view, I see the need to ask ourselves if things hold when we read certain articles of the Constitution from 7 onward. In this sense, I would ask that we should not use such labels and insults about 50 years of deception, education and doctrine of some, it is simply that when I grew up somewhat from my earliest years, I myself have determined what my beliefs are, and I consistently hold to this in the sense that I never wanted to hurt anyone, to respect the beliefs of everyone else, and I also claim it for myself. In this respect, I agree that we must be patient, correct and kind when we listen to each other in this title in the sense that the matter does not go to a personal level because it is good that we continue to be colleagues and can be tolerated as people in everyday life. In short, I will not support this amendment because it does not solve the problem of the entire law, which is bad and discriminatory, unconstitutional, and it is what it has to say that there would be no wrong belief that all coalition supports this thing because it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I myself will not support the amendment to Article 27 precisely because of what my colleagues have already strongly justified today. Indeed, I am sure of myself, for some shades of cultural struggle or for some broader interests. This amendment, while preserving a beautiful multi-faceted state of existence, which needs to be changed because we have heard that the law is old and originates in the former country. I'd be a little hasty to fund churches and religious communities. It was said that it was through denationalisation that they received sufficient resources for their activities. I don't think so, because it shows up. We can talk and talk on the one hand about some almost small financial empires, we know stories about big profits, but these are either the centres of the dioceses or the large pilgrim centers such as Brezje, the Council of Mountains or the Ptuj Mountains, and perhaps some of the reserves are still in the transfer of these funds from the centre to the periphery. However, we cannot get past it if we come only from our home environment, that the central parish church may have a whole bunch of branches, and there is a sign on everyone that it is cultural property and that it is in this area that large funds are needed to preserve and restore these cultural monuments. Perhaps I would say that at a meeting of the municipal council in Škofja Loka we have protected all churches as objects of wider importance in the cultural field, if not because of another, because they are in non-accessible places, some are in danger of being healed by the forest right now, the roads are falling apart, the roofs are falling apart; and precisely because of keeping the basics of the foundation. It's about renewal. Although the restoration of the church takes place with the help of the Ministry of Culture, which, of course, has limited resources, and it is usually half and half the preparation of the parish or church community itself. In our place, in the Skofjelo region, we have restored one church on the Cross Mountain, we have restored the altars of the Suški Church, you may know from the art encyclopedias that the Cranian Presbytery is very famous from Suha. The Suški church will be best protected when we are in the growing parish, in a rapidly growing parish, a new church, and this small church with a high frequency of people will become what it is supposed to be, a cultural monument or for smaller activities, and central activity will move to a new church. The church is being rebuilt on St. Oblenka, the visa of Tavčar's host. In short, much less is done than necessary. I'd mention a capuchin monastery. If it were true that we were rolling in money, we would not give it half or much of the complexes to hire jobs. At the same time, they have a library where cultural monuments are of great value, but there is no money to rebuild. I myself advocate the separation of the church from the state, but there are practical points where a partnership needs to be established, especially for the activities of priests in the military, in hospitals [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u188	Mr. Zicherl, can I have a word with you about the amendment, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u189	I'm basing it. For funding. It is precisely with a wide range of activities that the funding system needs to be provided and, as I have already said, I do not support it. And in the end, I'd like to talk about the amendment. How the rest of the faiths were covered, especially something I know about the Muslim faith. True, the mosque may be financed by some rich oil countries, but the existing prayers were created only on the basis of the rejection of believers and a lot of voluntary work. Although I am not aware of the problems of the Protestant church, they probably have them, or Orthodox churches. That is why I will not support this amendment, but I agree that a financial structure is needed primarily to maintain these sacral objects, which are cultural monuments at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending. From your seat, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, and sorry for this logistical complication. I would like to discuss Article 27 of this article and the amendment to this article, but I am very disappointed that, in the debate so far on the law on religious freedom in the core of my debates, I have not dealt with funding, but with all the other issues that have caused me much more anxiety in the law on religious freedom, especially because I felt that if a law is called a law on religious freedom, it is linked in its origin to human freedom, to fundamental human rights, and I have judged this law primarily from this point of view. And let me say that even in the context of the amendment before us, but I say that this amendment also allows me to say, because the amendment with such a text "registered religious communities can be financed", which means that the amendment's proposer has taken into account all the concerns we have expressed regarding the dual association of churches or churches, if we want to be specific, and religious communities. And since the words of the bishop of Celje were quoted today, I must say that I was just checking on the magnetogram, if I remember correctly, it makes me even more convinced that in this law the word "church" should not be for two reasons. The first is doubtless that there is a lack of respect for the constitution, for the Constitution is known only by the expression of the religious community. The second was this one, for it was said that the church was also regarded as a subject of belief. So it's becoming a theological term, and that concludes the explanation that the religious community is a sociological term, and the church is a theological term. And in this respect [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] Thank you, Mr Kokalj, thank you, Mrs Uhan, thank you, Mrs Irgl, and all those who have to remind me so much after one minute that I am not talking about the amendment, but I am talking about the amendment, and I initially justified it, only you don't understand it. [[...]] It is simply that the religious community is a sociological concept, and the church is a theological one, and because this view of equality can be debated, it should be written as proposed in the amendment, and this is the first reason why I will support this amendment. Now let's move on to Article 27. There are a number of things in this article that I cannot and cannot support in this article or in this whole law. Thank God that you wrote down the motions for this article or to say that the country has paid the priests so far, because so far we have tried only to see how nothing has been given by the state. But also Mr Kokalj has explained well that this law must bring things into formal and legal frameworks so that we can lay these foundations. I remember, of course, that the Ombudsman also warned about the inadequate payment of contributions, perhaps in anger at the Ombudsman you forgot, how he warned, whether the funds were sufficient, whether they were provided for all or not. But of course, it was known who could have obtained these funds, to whom it was not, and well, that you solved the matter the way you did, but in Article 2, the matter spreads first, from the servants of the church, then also those in Article 2, who do not have all the elements of the working relationship: there was something about those who vowed poverty and so on, and so on, but I am also disturbed by what is written in Article 27, paragraph 5, and shows that this law will of course be adopted. However, I am disturbed by this provision, which allows them to enforce their salary for such a priest or monk on every 1,000 members of a registered church or other religious community. It says here that this is the number that allows such payment, but now comes what disturbs me, that the number of members is proven by reliable data sources, including the use of data from the last census. In the previous term, when we passed the census law, it was specifically stated, but also in the law, go and see for what purposes the statistics collected from the census can be used; and here I have problems, which will give rise to rights, substantive rights, not to mention that this is a little unreliable source, because perhaps someone has exercised the right to say that their religious beliefs or unconvincingness are not necessary. There are, therefore, things that are, in this law or in this article that we are discussing and related to this amendment, but questionable and would suggest thinking about them. In addition to the great concern that the law should be brought to life as quickly as possible, it would be appropriate to listen to those concerns and comments that others who do not belong to a group of coalition parties have had. And I can tell the Social Democrats that we've had a lot of amendments prepared, that we've tried to warn them about some of the shortcomings in the law, but unfortunately, as it were said, without success. Although I fully understand the manoeuvre, the law had to be closed and only two articles were left open, and that would be good if these two were not open, because then we would have nothing to discuss. Whether the church, but now I am talking about the Roman Catholic Church, whether it is funded enough or not, I believe that the church can also reach funds through NGOs, even past the payment of what is the contribution, I warn again, at least 60%, it will be safe to give it 100%, let's just give it a little time, because the budget will decide on it. It's not in this budget yet. But well, that's decided, that's how you're going to take it, but talk about the fact that the country didn't have an understanding so far to finance the church's needs. Take a look at the relationship between co-financing what is a sacral cultural heritage and what is a different cultural heritage, and you'll see, don't tell me again that I'm saying it's wrong. All I'm saying is that in addition to caring for the sacramental heritage, there should be another cultural heritage. And that even when we maintain and finance this heritage, we would care for the legal basis. It is only at the convent library that we need to think about how it will acquire funds for its operations. And a lot of attention should be given to this, because it does not seem to be forgotten, because now there has been a lot of talk about the financing of civil society. However, the proposal for a government cooperation agreement with non-governmental organisations states that religious communities do not have the status of non-governmental organisations. And that's what it looks like to be paying attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Religious Freedom is the product of long debates and highly reasoned professional approaches to this topic, which has been in this area for a long time, in a particular way very much under negative criticism. And it is also not surprising that we are still facing such dogmatic sediments and also dogmatic rhetoric in this area. And I see here a great political interest that certain political structures see this as an area of division and division of the Slovenian people and systematically fuel this division and this division, including the subject matter of this law and this matter. In fact, it should be said that it is high time for such a dogmatic view, which is not in line with European tradition, to end in this space as well. I read an interview with Dr. Roberts in Del days ago, who was also presented there as a leading expert in the field of religious community and church views. I must say, in his view, he did not see any mistakes in those solutions that are being taken today. In fact, the solutions, which are already part of this legislation and seem perfectly normal to it, have long been established in Europe. However, I recall that when the Constitutional Court first ruled that religious communities or churches were also socially useful organizations, there was a lot of excitement over some part of the media and all that. Despite the fact that this is the most normal thing in Europe, now this direction of spreading some differences in distribution goes to all of these funding proposals, i.e. all of them. a church tax, seemingly democratic solution to a voluntary decision to give up income and so on. Of course, I will not support this amendment to Article 27, because of its mainly political background, the ideological background which seeks to preserve this division, this division in Slovenian society. I would also say that to those applicants who are not here now, and also to those who have formed this paragraph 27, that it is actually in Slovenia in the post-II period. World War I was a voluntary church tax, just as it was called. Religious, religious people have been restoring to a much greater extent the sacramental heritage, which is a general social value, and it still exists today. I hope you guys are aware of that. I am not saying that only atheists have contributed all of this, but certainly 90%, 90% of voluntary contributions, which are a significant part and even today are being restored in this way. These monuments, to be said, are largely not needed by churches and religious communities to carry out their religious activities. With the great interest of our ancestors, there were many churches built in Slovenia, impressive artistic achievements on, say, very inaccessible places, in difficult locations, but today this is an outstanding recognition of our country. It's more beautiful than our cultural landscape. I wonder if all those who struggle so vehemently against all of this would finally fall away from this division, that only the atheistic part of the Slovenian people should bear the main burden to maintain all of this. Are you fighting for this to collapse? For religious communities do not need this practically to engage in religious activities. It's completely civilian. As far as I know - and I think I know - they're almost not in the function of church rituals, most of it. I must say, although people are also grumbling at the expense of the local priest quite a lot of times when it usually says in a very transparent way how much this budget is being cut off from a family, that they should be thanked. That this unpleasant function is performed by all these 50, 60 years when we were faced with this ideological, cultural struggle and whose relapses are now being carried out through this amendment. I agree with those who have said before that the only purpose is to awaken an intolerance, to count people into one another and others. I say it is high time that such a policy or with such aspirations in society ends once. I must also say that talking about whether the religious community or the Church, on the basis of the property returned, could carry out the entire restaurant of all these cultural monuments, that this is a great diversion. We know that forests today bring very little income, that wood has never been as cheap as it is today, and that, in fact, I know very well, it is not possible to restore all these activities at all. And that's why I'm stressing again, and I'm not going to support this amendment. I don't think it's from a fair slope, it's not from a tendency to contribute in some way to unifying Slovenian society, and it's not true that the current solution in Article 27 brings some extra privileges, and that these are exclusion criteria that only one privileged. That's not true. But even for the next ten years, you can contribute to the religious communities that you say are organized. No one's defending you. Like all these years, we have contributed those who have had a relationship to this cultural heritage and to all these socially beneficial activities, so today you can contribute at the expense of those who say they are disadvantaged, who are not represented by the right criteria and thus will only do good work in society. Why are you yelling in here right now? I don't understand. So once again, I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u195	Mr. President, respectable colleagues, respectable colleagues! When we discuss this law, and unfortunately only two articles are open, and this seems to me to be crucial enough, we must, first and foremost, have constitutional provisions laying down a framework for the implementation of issues related to religious freedom and, in particular, issues related to public funding. It seems to me that the proposaler was not concerned enough. I do not hope to say that the solution proposed by our parliamentary group is such that it can fully ensure that there is a strict view of the separation of the Church, the Church and the religious communities, on the one hand, and the State, in such a way that it cannot cause any discussion and the shadow of doubt, as this solution also relies on the fact that, in fact, the transfer instrument is linked to the country, to the budget and to the budgetary resources. Nevertheless, it does not seem necessary to comment on two issues at the end of this debate, but there is much talk about cultural struggle. I wonder why this talk is necessary when the amendment is completely pure and correct and talks about a possible way of financing. My answer is that this labelling serves primarily one purpose to silence the debate on this law, and that is not a good thing. In view of this, I do not want to say that someone is already running a cultural fight, because this would be too much of a compliment, so I will have to say that there are also appropriate assumptions, but this labelling certainly leads to the suspension of parliamentary decision-making. If it is not possible in Parliament to discuss in a calm manner the various models of funding, then, I will say, something is wrong with those who question it. We also have, I will say, a bigger problem in 2006 in Slovenia, such as the cultural struggle of the beginning of the previous century. In fact, I associate this larger problem with Parliament's very difficult to carry out its function, it is very difficult for it to discuss the things that it has to decide on, because these decisions are obviously taken elsewhere and Parliament is, I will say, only for the form of the body to confirm it, because it is not different. This is certainly a bigger problem in Slovenia right now than if copies, including ideological, are broken about certain things. Therefore, I also regret the situation in which it is not possible to discuss more solutions under this law, because the coalition has closed it in the way that the Rules of Procedure allow it. What is said in Article 27, which is worth considering - colleagues, especially from the coalition - is that there are solutions in there, regardless of what we are proposing, which can be quite controversial from the point of view of other rules adopted in this national assembly. I'm not even comparing this to a law that's been dying for 30 years and no one's ever been satisfied with it, but it's made it possible to solve part of the problems. See what has been written down for you "that the beneficiaries of these contributions will be citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia". Mr Čepar, I don't know if you know that the National Assembly has recently passed a law governing the employment of foreigners, but I don't know if you know that we have a law that speaks about regulating working relationships. There all these different situations are very precisely defined and this is, in my humble knowledge, contrary to those written down. I don't know if this is absolutely necessary. Of course, it's contrary to intent, I'll say, all beliefs. Believers try to be at least as far as I understand them and know, to be universal in their own. We will not now enter into some special faiths and beliefs, but the vast majority of those present in Slovenia are trying to be universal. From this point of view, of course, you work for dedicated persons or priests, if you understand this better, and for others the great injustice of not being able to preach resources and to receive contributions in the Republic of Slovenia; also from a religious point of view it is a problem. Just think for a moment that our missionaries are operating in some other environment and are not citizens. But this would be one thing that could be discussed if it were at least as willing as you showed in that modest response, and you were a colleague of Testen, who otherwise said it was an interesting attempt or a true concept, but not a complete one. If you really want this discussion to continue, then the discussion should be opened, not closed. The fact that this model cannot be verified, completed, etc. It is certainly not the responsibility of the amendment's proposers, but of the bill's proponents. That's why it seems to me in the language of the dominant religion to do hypocritical work, to do Pilate's washing of hands here in front of us -- unnecessary, but Parliament needs to discuss it. Much has been said about these criteria, while 1,000 people, or 1,000, have been living for 80 years. I wouldn't say that again. This could be discriminatory. All religions have come to our place, have not been here since the beginning of the world to use this Bible language again - I do not go into how they came, how they kept themselves, what was going on, because this really gets us into some of the discussions that my colleagues like to forget in this context, but not in some other contexts when it comes to other types of conflicts and the enforcement of truths. We live here with them now. And that is why, I will say, it is very controversial to postpone a potential right for someone for 80 years, which seems to me to be a parliamentary issue. These are the solutions that you have. The amendment proposed by the parliamentary group, which has also been discussed through all the discussions on other laws to some extent, brings some things that are worth considering and are certainly not, as someone has said here, discriminatory to anyone, but bear responsibility for the decision to pay the contribution to the one from which it comes. The state is just an intermediary in translating this instrument, I don't think it's any particular ideology. It may be liberal, but in this regard I will not protest, but it is also based on what St. Augustine, that religion is a matter of free decision or that freedom is placed in a person, and that she does what she wants to do with it, and that we do not discuss these things that are not so urgent. However, it is important that - yes, and this is a conceptual difference - that the state is not the one that regulates how much and under what conditions it will give money, but, I will say, the taxpayer, the citizen, the one who says I take advantage of the possibility that I contribute 6% to the realization of my freedom in this area. That seems like a lot of progress to me. But it's also important because all the numbers of the '80s are gone, the number of thousands of residents is gone, everything else is gone, but in fact, depending on how many people choose to do this step by their own conscience and willfully, they get the right giro account, they could already open up the necessary funds. There is also no need to discuss from there whether the priests and dedicated persons of these Churches are overpaid or underpaid. I don't really care about that. I just wish that, in fact, if believers wanted to, their priests also had big salaries. This would be absolutely nothing to worry about if it ran in the way we suggest. Why not, not last time? By selling ideas, I'm going to say, they're serving some much more problematic individuals' money. But the key is, my colleague, that this decision is left to individuals. And here it seems to me that it is necessary to say something, but it is my feeling that perhaps not the predominant Church and not the bill-maker do not believe that people would not be counted without being counted, but that they would actually decide on these kinds of ways of paying contributions and facilitating income. For we would indeed be in the hands of our believers. And if they were hurt, if any of his works were wrong, they could make up their minds each year whether they contribute or not. And here I think you've taken the logic of what is now popularly called State funding of the Church, and that's wrong. This leads to a series of debates that may arouse controversy, which may also cause discomfort to those who do not want to pay for it, but in another situation they would have this choice. Therefore, it seems to me that the heart of this rejection is precisely in the fact that the non-dominant Church and the coalition does not trust people to pay themselves, in black as you have calculated, more than they would have received under this Article. And even in this way, it would not be possible to post accounts through the receipts. That's also part of the story. It seems important to me that we continue to discuss this law, even in some acute controversy, and I also accept what feels like the shadow of democracy, as a suspension of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you. The word has magic. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you for your words, although we have applied very differently, this is just in time. That debate I had before obviously hit the right point, because the old saying that if you step on your tail, then it's very loud. And I think that's been quite a while since the last discussions. But it's also very predictable. Look, my debate has gone towards avoiding the revival of cultural warfare in Slovenia, because of this Slovenia as a country, as a community has no value, it only undermines our development potentials, and this is the responsibility of those who are constantly reviving it in one way or another. But what was the reaction when I called for tolerance and understanding of others? That one of the following colleagues, of course from the opposition, was discussing that he was expecting a fire on the pile and that we could hear some similar nonsense. This, I think, is very typical of these kinds of discussions, when you face arguments on one side, you point to the essence of the story, you don't stick to the surface, and on the other hand, you play on negative emotions and you want to relax this charge in all ways. What remains aside in this debate is a question that should be enlightened, and I will now do something a little differently. All of you who are proposing or co-proposals or advocates of this amendment have stressed how fair, honest, well-meaning he is. Even if we accept this as a starting point, I say that your reaction has shown that it is different and that my words were still justified, but if we accept this as a starting point, what you have offered; you know, this amendment also has some serious legal shortcomings. Are you sure that such voluntary allocation of income is in line with certain articles of our Constitution, such as Articles 146, 147 and 148 of the Constitution, which make it very clear how individual taxes or taxes can be prescribed, who and how they can be prescribed and, of course, that all funds must then be collected in budgets and properly distributed, in accordance with the general rules governing this area. Personally, I do not know that there would be any provision that would allow us to make a single income in advance and to make a voluntary contribution to a particular community. I think that in the light of these articles of the Constitution, which I have now set forth in the principles, there is at least a very questionable and disputable solution. So, if we take this argument into account, of course, then it turns out that the thing that I said at the outset was said very well and above all that the purpose of today's debate is obviously not to find someone for all the inclusive solutions, but that the purpose is exactly what I have to say, I am not happy at all. Personally, I am very sad that it will always become this national assembly a place in which it tries to revive ideologically or, if you want, a cultural struggle. Colleagues, please, let's all stop doing this together! I think that any solution that this national assembly can take must be legal, must be correct, thoughtful and very good if there is more cooperation in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr. Skolcz, you have not been quoted, could you please sign up for the debate? Look, there's the Stabs, Rezman, Uhan, and then I'll write you down. Okay? Because you weren't quoted. Mr. Stab, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not talk about the cultural struggle or expose the pure speculation of the LDS with this amendment, which proposes a tax on the income of citizens and citizens as a source of funding for the Church or religious communities. In order not to be diagnosed with being sick, like a fellow Member of mine sitting in front of me, talking or pleading, I am not afraid of this diagnosis, because such findings are also indicative and self-reflective. Otherwise, everyone can lose their nerve, even the superior and always calmed "fuzballers". To the amendment, which in fact solves in its speculative way the financing of very simple and all human needs - in this case priests -, costs of healthcare and pension protection. A serious intention to propose a different funding system would, of course, require a better written law on the part of the applicants. But, as I have already said, the purpose is to provoke all this deep debate, create an opportunity to create divisions, maintain a wall of divisions, even insults and ridicule. Perhaps no one meant seriously by setting wages for the purpose of financing religious communities, nor did the proposers of this amendment. The aim of such an amendment, of course, is that perhaps even this will happen, which would be ideal for a great debate, but not for a cultural struggle, but for the maintenance of the wall, that wall - the division of Slovenes and Slovenes. There would be a lot of simplification and talk about taxation for enriching the Church - we know which churches. The aim is also to prevent this from happening, which is certainly still good for the debate we are witnessing and for the inadequacy of any financing of the activities of religious communities. We hear statements like, "Exposure accounts through headphones, the eclipse of democracy," etc. For a simple matter involving every citizen and citizen, if he does not have the means to provide insurance or if he does not have the means to provide home care, in such cases such citizens and citizens come to the expense of the municipalities, we know this very well. Why should this not be done through an orderly law, through a legally regulated law, also by those priests who are exclusively engaged in religious activities, their only source of activity? The Law on Religious Freedom has put a lot of effort and coordination into making such an amendment difficult to overrun quickly. Our country recognizes the importance of religions and the importance of the Church and of religious communities, some in a religious and valuable sense, and others could acknowledge this because of the humanitarianism, philanthropy, sociological and psychological or community of human goodness and missionaryism that these people are carrying out. "The current way of regulating the law on religious freedom is more consistently governed by the law." I think that the state of religious freedom must not only provide constitutionally but also enable it to work positively in its legislation and to enable believers to live in accordance with their faith. At the end of the day, perhaps another question - I will not support this amendment. Are the LDS intended to finance such funds for the financing of the Church, the religious communities, as proposed in their amendment, including visits by religious representatives invited by the President of the State? I hope that they will, too - I conclude with this, is true with this question. Would this money thus be obtained by financing, by taxing the income or wages of citizens and citizens, also for financing such activities, such as the President of the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr Rezman has the floor to prepare Mrs Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u201	Mr President, I'm sure this has been happening for quite some time now, this amendment is not such that it would not be possible to challenge it, but it certainly does contribute something to correcting the law. Some have urged us to connect and not to divide and count, however. The problem with this addition is that we support this desire not to count, but that this proposal of the law makes us count. It says here: count. And then when you count up, sign up. And then when you register, then some of you will get state money. Well, we're at Article 27 talking about this state money. Some wanted to show that those who do not support the law in this work are opposed to any funding or assistance to religious communities. It's not like that. At least at the verbal level, some of us support it, some of us do it empirically in our daily practice, the mayors and the mayors have this opportunity and we do it. And there's no need to change the law for that. Even now we can restore sacral buildings, and we can already take care of the history of the Church by writing books, publishing them, pawning them, etc.; already now we can support cultural programmes and projects. All of this is possible now, and all of this is happening everywhere. And now I wonder whether it will not even happen that if the law obliges us that spatial planners - "must" - it says - "in the proposal to assess the necessary by religious facilities" or whether it does not follow that we will have to carry out the preparation of spatial acts at the expense of the municipality. It costs millions and millions. Is it not possible that the one on whose land the need for such an object will be assessed will claim compensation from us because he will not be able to use it for any other purpose, for which he might use the land? In the end, will it not even occur that either the state or the congregations will have to buy back this land and, ultimately, this could be predicted, we will have to build this building that is being discussed in this law? And that is what we are resisting, and therefore we think it is right for those who carry out this religious activity to provide their own means of carrying out this religious activity or to obtain donations or to provide adequate funds through their other activities. But we are opponents to be financed - I repeat, we are not against culture, against the restoration of heritage, but religious activity itself as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment proposed by the LDS Parliamentary Club, I would say that we will not support it in Novi Slovenija. The proposer is of the opinion that this article, which is supposed to be amended, is in the form of tax money and proposes that part of the income should rather be earmarked for those purposes, in particular for religious communities. I ask you, proposers, what is the income, what is not the budget part of the funds as well. They think that this is a very good solution, that even more money will bring, that now is just the right time - I think you provoke us, you have had time, you could do it. The co-financing of religious officials, not co-financing, the paying of contributions to their social security is not at the heart of this government or New Slovenia, this has already begun. Today, some people want to stop it. I would be more open to the amendment if you suggested that this should be stopped, at least that's how some Members speak. We believe that you are religious servants, not anyone, but religious officials deserve to be given a share of the funds to pay for their social security. Many priests in the countryside are extremely poor, they are poor, they are not all rich, but not everyone in Brezja does not know which mountains are at home, and they maintain many branch churches, including sacral buildings with cultural value, and they also raise and spread one such cultural relationship among people. They were also ministers of cultural development, as teachers sometimes did in the countryside, and we think they are still today. For this reason, we find it very ugly to talk about them in such a way that they are subject to taxpayers' money, that the state is uniting the Church, that they are needed by each other. As a result, the state will not be any closer to the Church, nor will the Church be any closer to the State. And I'm also asking, who is the Church? Mrs Potrata has given some definitions of what the Church is, what the religious community is, but the state or the Church, after all, we are also believers and it is difficult to separate us. I can't say, I'm a believer, but I'm not a citizen or the other way around, but it's true that not everyone is a believer, too, but then, by your logic, we should get some believers into the ghetto, or we'll be united with the country. Also, fear that if you do not profess to be a Christian or a believer or a member of a religious community, you will not enjoy these privileges. That's right. I think it's been a while since they questioned who was a believer, and that's why you didn't have any benefits, much more trouble. I think that these times have passed and that everyone has to decide for himself whether to be faithful or unfaithful, not because of the financial benefits offered by the state. That the law discriminates against certain religious communities - I do not think it is discriminatory because it is the same for all religious communities, only religious communities are not all the same, there are some more than 1000 years, others half less, and some would probably register at this very moment if they could smell money or go somewhere from their sources, because it has the right, but that does not mean that it is entitled to state money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Get Mr. Gulic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before that, the question was about the serious intentions of the applicants. I can argue that the amendment is quite serious and that I am concerned that you do not want to take it seriously, that you find 100 reasons not to take it seriously. To try to construct some connection with some ideas, times, and I don't know. Let's just say I don't have anything on my own as a proponent. That, I'll say, isn't so insulting to me because I'm used to it. However, it seems very problematic for Parliament that things that come into consideration are not taken seriously, with some hair-attracted structures: about the cultural struggle, about someone being subdued and I don't know what. Let's see, if we wanted around this, as Dolenjska says, "to pour pure wine", then we would go and recalculate what this means from the aggregates available, and see where people could hypothetically define themselves for these types of financing of their faith, or religious institutions or organizations, to use for all other resources, which are some, regardless of the fact that they are not present in Slovenia for 80 years, significantly older than those in Slovenia who are present for a thousand years or so. Is it then discriminatory to be up to a religion that has just as much tradition, not fiction, with such a law that forbids it, Mrs. Uhanova? Why would this faith be less valuable? You say that believers are also citizens. We do not have any problem with this, but this structure is based on this, in order to be able to give up the work of what we would otherwise pay the State and pay the Church or the religious community on the basis of law. But you can see for yourself that infidels can also be citizens. They too need to be guaranteed the right to decide that even if they like a religion, they can be paid, regardless of whether or not they like it or not. [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[...]] It's just that someone can decide, just like I am paying the village priest for everything he needs to maintain his buildings, but I have no problem asking him for any special certificates of his faith, and he doesn't have any problem issuing these bills around the houses, whether people are religious or not. And it's being solved, I'll say, in a very decent way, substantially different than in this room. However, I have raised this question as to whether this is in line with these 145th and 46th and 47th, and I do not know what other articles governing the income of the State and the local communities. I hope so. We have a structure of the Income Act, which already allows 3% of relief for different purposes, allow me not to list them, from paying membership to political parties to making it easier for some environmentally friendly products. We have a kind of partial exemption at a reduced rate of VAT and we have one type of exemption which is otherwise intended for a tax on the profits of legal persons. Thus, in our system these exceptions are possible and the amendment proposed speaks of the need to develop instruments to make such an exception operational. And let me remind you, those of you who have lived up to their income forecasts all the time, that their time has been up to 10%, that they have fallen later, and there is certainly room for so much 0.6% relief if you really want to discuss it. But if I were to discuss the arguments, I would like to discuss these formal options that I am talking about and prove to you that and all of them from the income forecasts are known, only Mr Grims does not believe that they exist because they do not go into his design of the cultural struggle, if we are putting all the things that are connected with these kinds of arguments, then it is absolutely necessary to say that it seems to me that someone does not want to accept the debate, that he has already decided and that it is all too much; but I do not name this, as I have already said, a cultural struggle, but a denial of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. Grimes has reached out to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u207	I'm gonna be a little short. Look, just considering everything that's been said so far. He imagines how completely different and, above all, infinitely more credible your words would sound, although those solutions you most attack, including this partial payment of your contribution, would not really be something that already exists in practice. This is nothing new, which this law would redecorate, but something that has already been implemented in practice and, by the way, which our current government has not introduced in any way. Therefore, not only do I insist in my conviction, but you have given me an additional argument to repeat and this last time, because I will no longer announce that in this case it is only a matter of reviving the cultural struggle by encouraging a deliberate, deliberate promotion of negative feelings, because it is playing to the point that through long history, through all the criteria of education and social life in the previous regime, in the consciousness of most people, a password has already been built up by which the Church is an internal enemy. But, ladies and gentlemen, the invaders of Slovenia alone were riding on red star tanks, but the united Europe is built on Christian values, so it is in fact and it remains for history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr Gulič has the floor to prepare Mr Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u209	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. After all these discussions, of course, I would like to return to the amendment itself. This amendment is essentially moving away from counting believers and incredibles. In fact, any citizen, taxpayer, anyone who has to pay income will not be determined by whether he is a believer or an unbeliever, whether he is a member of one or another of the religious communities, but by making a contribution to his income to that religious community or to that activity that he seems to be in need of support. This means, of course, atheists, as far as Slovenia is concerned, will be able to decide whether they are dedicated to one religious community this year, another year, etc. But if, of course, they are very locally bound, they will go directly to the dedicated person who is from a religious community in their own environment and pay there as we do now, when such needs are present. The census that you read us, of course, legitimizes the basic bill: one dedicated person per 1,000 believers. Will you make up these numbers, or will you really count them? Now that's another question, but counting is in the basic version of the law, but it's not in our amendment. Read it in detail and not so much with some cultural struggle. Of course, in this year's debate on this subject, I am not talking about this law, but on the subject of the law on religious freedom - we can say a lot. On 23 October or 24 October, it began with an attack on the proposer and it was a real vocabulary from, say, the cultural struggle of Vodska Johanna. Then things settled down - thank God, I'll say. We started to have a normal conversation, and we started with arguments, but in this debate, which was then allowed and allowed, the complete decision that really did not arise in this House, that no other law, only the one proposed by the government office for religious communities, would be the one, even though it was not yet known what it would be like. I think it is in the interests of democracy and in the interests of believing, religious communities and religious freedom to accept this amendment. Let's take it. However, if it is not yet good enough, of course it is still an open possibility that matters with the amendment of the law will change. As for the current solution, as in the law and which remains in this law as a list of some facts, I must say, of course, the social security contributions of dedicated persons in Slovenia are paid there from the 1980s, 70s, then only one part of the dedicated persons. If we're looking at the Roman Catholic Church, only those who were members of the Cyril-Methodic Society. Of course, this is then legalized for all priests or not legalized, because I do not think there is any record of it at all, the Peterlet government. And then it went like that. Of course it was the same. At that time the situation, including the property situation, of religious communities were significantly different than they are now. We are now making them out of other situations and are therefore looking for new solutions. Solutions that would be closer to the citizens, however, where citizens would clearly participate in their vote and say what they want, to whom they will give something, and solutions that also take account of this world in which we all live, because it is nothing else. And of course, to induce, I don't know, some kind of will after a revived cultural struggle is, of course, pointless. That word, I've heard this syntagmo quite a few times at this time, but I must say, always from the mouth of those who say you're not for the cultural struggle to come to life. I really don't know why the world is so wrong, but when we talk about the law on religious freedom, we need to have before us, above all, that this matter must not - whether it is enforced or practiced or not practiced - represent no stigma anywhere, no institutions of state, in no social environment throughout the country. This matter must not be a sign, must not be a stigma, must not be a sign, however it is realized or not realized. Of course, this law wants this in some way, because it separates religious communities by specific weight or by ordinary weight, I don't know, and of course, because it also separates small religious communities from large religious communities, so-called from younger ones, and because it separates because it brings together two authorities or even three, that is, it unites the power of one great religious community and the state authority, but behind much of what is also a great authority, and that is financial capital and these things in the history of Europe, the world has never been good. It's always been very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the word, Mr. Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the parliamentary groups have announced almost 5 hours of debate for this point. This is certainly a gesture, a democratic gesture of each of the parliamentary groups, and if we have waited 30 years, then we must not regret sitting here for another five or more hours. Unfortunately, I have to tell my colleagues at the LDS Club that I cannot support the amendment to Article 27, they have not convinced me, there are not enough simulations, there are too few calculations, but I also agree with my colleague, Mr Testen, and I note and express my conviction that if we are talking about income, then these solutions are "brought" in income legislation or in a package of tax legislation, not in the law of the religious community. When the talk was earlier about the Churches, the talk was mostly about the Catholic Church, unfortunately, so I understood, in a negative connotation or a negative connotation. There was talk of some, almost negative, association. At this point, I would like to highlight two examples of socially beneficial or two examples of the national work of the Catholic Church or of the Christian Church. This is a problem of eviction and the problem of homelessness or keeping Slovenia out of Slovenia. I hope to say that if there were no Catholic Church, that we would not today behave with so many Slovenians living outside the borders of Slovenia, we speak 20% in softness, some 25%. For various reasons, for various reasons, Slovenians have emigrated abroad, mainly for economic reasons. If we hadn't organised in America, Canada, Germany inside the parishes, inside the Slovenian parishes, they would have really flushed and flushed. You're all traveling around the world, you're meeting these Slovenians, and I think you can really pin it on me here. Many Slovenian schools have been organised in Slovenian parishes, many cultural societies, which today, even the fourth generation, keep Slovenia thousands of kilometres from Slovenia. I'm extremely proud of this myself, and sometimes we can say that when we're hanging out with these Slovenians, we're in Canada, America, Argentina, Germany, France, there's not only 2.5 million of us, that there might be 5 million of us. The second thing, certainly a social positive work and a national positive work, is the preservation of cultural monuments, whether this chapel, church or whatever. We ask ourselves who is responsible or who is deserving that, despite the various social systems, these facilities have been preserved to this day and that we are enjoying today driving through the beautiful Slovenia and watching churches, chapels on the hills and so on, and we proudly show it to all our visitors. Was any of us the chairman of the construction committee for the rehabilitation of a church or chapel? Because recovery costs something like 10, maybe a few hundred million. Was any of us the chairman of this construction committee? But does anyone hope to expose and start with such works, of course under professional supervision, and he also hoped to talk people into it, I will now say, the believers who put this money together? If there is anyone, then he can speak and criticize how much the state has at all times provided for the rehabilitation of these cultural monuments, which in fact also mean ours - which also mark our national pride. And in this place I would expect, because of these two important acts and missions, especially the Catholic Church, I would expect a little more, not tolerance, but respect, because respect means much more than tolerance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr Sok has the floor to prepare Mr Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I must say that today this debate is the visa of what we were able to hear at the first reading of this law, on a much higher level, and I am pleased with this debate. I think that somehow we've all progressed together in this vision of the problem, and that's exactly what we're doing. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, we are in the third millennium, celebrating the 15th anniversary of our independence. And by all these criteria, we're slowly falling back to where we used to be. So it is perfectly legitimate that we have different views on how to resolve this issue on the financial side, and even in the world it is. Today, a German expert on religious law, Prof. Gerhard Robbers, has already been quoted here, and let me read for myself how he answered the question whether there is a European state that does not financially support the Church and the religious communities, either directly or indirectly. His answer is, "That's not it." All European countries, on a very different scale and to a very different extent, support religious communities, from tax reliefs and exemptions, to direct contributions and payments. Even the French State of the religious community directly and strongly supports financial support. This is also quite legitimate, since religious communities are part of public life as other institutions and so on, of course this comment is much broader. Even when he speaks of religious freedom when he answers, he speaks, of course, of the duty of the State to ensure the conditions for religious freedom, both by working alone and by financial incentives. And that's what we do in our country. And what we have decided is to contribute one part of the state's resources to ensure the social protection of religious employees and, on the other hand, to provide financial resources to maintain a huge cultural heritage, is sufficient at this very moment and is adequately resolved in Slovenia's holding, and they also agree, I think that all religious communities. For this reason, it is unnecessary for a new tax to be introduced through such an amendment as proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and there is no need at this time. At first glance, the proposal may be attractive. However, if we compare it in the context of the overall financial possibility and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, then it must be said that this amendment does not fall under this law and this issue needs to be resolved if the National Assembly decides to do so, within the framework of the legislation governing tax policy; and it is likely that, with one such amendment or such solution, this matter must be resolved in various sectoral laws. For this reason, we have also said several times in New Slovenia today, and I repeat once again, if we understand the intention of the proposer correctly, we do not intend to support this amendment today, but perhaps, at this point in time, the situation is certainly not ripe for this, when in the near future, even when the climate in this country will be slightly different, even when opinions are different, and when a somewhat broader consensus is reached at national level, the conditions are also provided for such an application and that the majority will agree with it. I say this in particular because an interview in the evening with one of the candidates, Mr Gulic, was published on Saturday, surprised, and spoke of a different context, as proposed by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I support the amendment. Since it is publicly known that I have been in some of the previous governments, I could say that this amendment is actually nothing new. I was also on the side of the church, the Catholic Church, the unrecognized president of a mixed board of boards for relations between the state and the church, and in these discussions, how to settle this issue, in some way through income matters, they were always in the game in one way or another, so this is not something new, something completely surprising. It was interesting that the very Catholic side was somewhat opposed to this, but in a way like Mr Sok might not be now, but perhaps this would be taken into account. Why didn't that happen? Firstly, governments were more colorful, we had different parties, coalition parties, and we were not able to coordinate in particular around this, and I also admit that, it was not a very high priority. In all these laws, which we were able to adopt before joining the EU, neither the church nor any other church or community, not only the Catholic Church, expressed a matter, but today we need to live at all, adopt a law on religious freedom or religious community or whatever, although some drafts have been made. So, it wasn't a priority that this was going to work, but of course the Vatican agreement also codified some things, such as they were, and somehow it wasn't, the theme. Why is the amendment good? Why don't we add it up? It does not therefore add up, we must note this because this decision is within the base, i.e. income and because this decision is tax secrecy. This is a discreet decision that no one can know or even know about except the one who chooses to do so. That is why it is a very good solution, which at the same time does not discriminate and allows, in fact, one to express one's preference to different religious communities by devoting that share to these communities. Why, in fact, do those who somehow already emphasize the importance of faith, especially one - Roman Catholic, and perhaps others, but especially those who resist? I asked myself this question for the first time, I think that in 1990, 1991, when we proposed on the world of RTV that Sunday's television broadcasts should be introduced and that it is by the representatives of the church, and this in Roman Catholic there were some concerns that we might be able to think twice, three times if we could - then we heard informally, formally never - so much less visit to churches. Today it is quite clear that it is good that those who cannot walk are affected or anything that is certainly, I will say, better than nothing; and this some public television must enable in some reasonable, meaningful context, etc. And that's what's happening. Today it's not "slowing" anything and no one. I don't know why you don't trust me, I think, but not for religious reasons, for cultural, anthropological, sociological reasons, I'm sure people would contribute, but I'm not going to explain it because I think it's necessary at this political body, the national assembly. So much for that. I don't think you trust people without being religious, theologically religious, that's another question, but yes, I'll say, they don't belong socially, socially, culturally, not to this environment, you don't trust them, well, that's your problem. Now the second question is the cultural struggle. Here, of course, a Member who by this "bite," with that word, is not here, but still, uses concepts and uses concepts, not only him, who you understand in a very strange way, or you don't understand them at all, is too little to be ordered to a magazine, maybe you need to read somewhere else. The cultural struggle is very simple, is the transfer, transfer of political conflict, an interesting political conflict into the cultural sphere, into the sphere around values, around lifestyles and the use of cultural mechanisms to achieve political objectives. It's a cultural struggle, so about the profession, whatever it is, would have already defined it. What does this have to do with what is said before, but now the said Mr Grims, nothing. Unless I could, I don't see it, in fact, we can make this law possible in certain articles a product of cultural warfare, but it may be a little over the top, but still. For example, Article 26 is a typical example of this, I have to say why spatial planning in Slovenia does not work because every law involves spatial planning. Article 26 is the same. We have a law on spatial regulation and urbanism, and now every law will be incorporated into this, even the law on religious freedom. This, of course, does not lead anywhere, it would rather be an element of this cultural struggle or at least imperialism in this case. What worries me, and here we differ in understanding the situation between the Church and the State or between religion, that is two different relationships, between faith and civil authority, that we see this thing differently than you and understand it substantially differently, and your law is the result of an understanding that we will never support and we will oppose it, and it also means that if we have the power, we will try to change. That's what I'm telling you as a liberal Democrat, and it's not about expressing religious feelings, but also about the church, that's different things, that it can't be public. It is quite clear that in a free society, the exercise of faith and belonging can and must also be public. What bothers me is that this law in a series of articles interferes where it should not, and it is private. The collation of the private and private sphere worries me more than the public sphere, but this is a debate for the next time. You will accept the amendment, which is the fruit of sober reflection and reflection, you will reject, although in the final instance it is right for what we would think, but that is just the way it is. With this article, as you have today, which expands the current system, no one has opposed it, but you are working with church officials, priests, monks, even the will or the unwitting public, that is, government officials in good and bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr Kumer has the floor to prepare Mr Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. Once again, after this debate since I first came to my attention, I am convinced that the content of this amendment under Article 27 is not just such a bad solution. Even those who oppose it. Last but not least, if I have correctly understood and listened to the representative of the government, Dr. Chapar's proposer, the government is seriously considering resolving this issue, and this solution in Article 27 is not definitive, and so, too, the Priori does not oppose this idea which has been given through this amendment. Hence, history in this national assembly, nonsense, and foolishness is what has been said today by those who speak about cultural warfare. That is what Mr Grims was talking about, not those who advocate this amendment and the content of this amendment. And there's something else for Mr Grimes, because he's already spoken in this cultural battle several times on different occasions, and he's always at the end of it, he has this syntagmo, he says, every time you step on a cat's tail, he's got it. This cat's had no tail for a long time, and it's not even squealing anymore. That's why he's obviously stepping on his own cat's tail, which he's got at home on his wrist.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr Kovacič has the floor, Mr Školč is preparing us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. The marriage is actually very old. The existing law comes out of 1976, and we probably all agree here that the area governed by the new bill needs to be regulated. This is an area and content that concerns believers, but of course it is those who will say and discuss and decide how this will be arranged, whether they are believers or not. But it is right that things be arranged in such a way that the believers will also be content with how this will be arranged, not to impose a solution with which the believers are not satisfied. Therefore, it seems to me that the cultural struggle, which in some ways stemmed from some debates, is not necessary; a calm democratic debate is needed to find the best solution. I did not intend to apply for the debate, but I was struck by the comment made by one of the debaters who said that this amendment, which we are now talking about, is in the best interest of the believers and that that is why this must be accepted. Now I would say, however, that what is good for the believers and what is not, let the believers judge themselves, not those who are not believers. Those who do not believe can, of course, as a believing debate and try to find a solution, but a solution that concerns believers as far as this law is concerned, and therefore allow believers to judge what is in their best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr Školč has the floor to prepare Mr Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you very much. It's just that certain things need to be repeated, otherwise it's a requirement that the last person who said they were right, at least someone understands these performances. What I would like to say briefly is that I am not attacking anything, I am merely promoting a different solution, but I do not understand those who claim that this law, which is 30 years old, is bad and at the same time advocate precisely these solutions and prolong them into the future. I don't understand this, the coalition is extending the solutions from the previous system to the future, we are trying to propose something else. What someone has done, I think there is not enough time to say here, but I can assure you, Mr Horvat, that you will not doubt me that, at the time I was Minister of Culture, a substantial number of objects, different churches, as at the time of Mr Capuder's ministry, have been restored, and the national programme, which has identified the problem of inheritance as an important segment. What we're talking about here isn't connected to this segment, but with something else, we don't want to hear it, so we're going to extend some of the solutions that you're swearing about, and I'm going to say, at Mass and in Parliament, that it's bad, and at the same time, you're going to accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word. Get Mrs. Pechanova ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have before us a law on the religious community at second reading and an amendment to Article 27. It means that if we accept anything about this treatment, which some say would be a good consensus at the highest level, then we have a little option with or on this, because in the debates there were also different solutions. And since we have all found that there are different solutions in Europe and this amendment is very similar, it is nothing unusual. To avoid anyone trying to sort me out on either side, let me say that I belong to the only autonomous and indigenous religious community, this is a Protestant church, voluntary taxes, and I pay contributions to this and also to the Catholic Church. Don't let anyone bother with this job. Some, that is also what Mr Čepar said, some churches are opposed to the solutions that are in law and some support it. Some of these do not support solutions in the law, but in some ways support the solutions that are in our amendment. That is why we Members are so different here that we present solutions that are also relevant to some churches and are also adopted in different ways in Europe. There are countries, such as France, which is far more separate from countries and has much more radically separated funding than we will obviously have. I see no reason for this amendment to be discredited in the way we have heard that this is some extreme and that it is trying to introduce a new solution that is absolutely unacceptable. I agree with my colleagues back here who had a similar solution, and it may be worth considering because this amendment is, of course, still open because of the second treatment, or if another solution can be taken. But given that, just as the law says, nothing else, of course, is a little hope, especially if we argue in the opposition and read some nonsense, then there is so much less chance that this amendment would be adopted. But it would be good if you were accepted. I find it strange to have discussions and statements, even at the highest level of the current government, that this is an additional tax. We all know that's not true. And let's not sell people a story that isn't real. Anyone who understands the law in a number of ways will soon be able to see that this is not an additional tax. That within the existing tax system is one of the possibilities for people to decide freely. In this part of people's freedom of choice, it's what you say to colleagues who advocate the absolute content of the proposed law that people want it to happen. After this amendment, it would have happened as people would have wanted, although I personally think it might have suggested that we extend this part of the means to give or assign to someone else. Even if we stay within this solution, the percentage is still 'disputable' to be one of the appropriate solutions. And I think that the debate, as my colleague Sok said, is on a level or to maintain on a level, that we are all mediating our thoughts and solutions and that we do not qualify this amendment or this discussion in this direction as some extreme and that we want to oppress any church or anything like that, which I think is a complete nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to say, as Mr Geza Juban has already said, that this is not about increasing taxes or increasing income, it is about very transparent coverage of income work and very clear redistribution of this income to other or precisely dedicated consumers, and these are different religious communities in this country. And when we listen to explanations as to how much the country's budget is currently earmarking for the financing of pension, health and other types of social security insurance for priests and other religious workers, as set out in the law, and how much of the proposed 0.6% of the income that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are supposed to spend on this amendment, that is to say, income-generating commitments for religious communities. This is $1,604,306,740 for the current year 2006, which means that in 2007 about 4% to 5% of this money will be higher, which would mean about 60 million to 80 million more, than this year's possible budget amount, if we opted for this 0.6%. Of course, I am aware that not all citizens and all of the citizens who are taxpayers for income will devote money or a share of their income to religious communities, but that they will leave that 0.6% of their income to the budget to deal with this money as they wish. However, in this case, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia would no longer be able to finance the activities of religious communities, but it would be the decision of believers, believers or people who are not believers, but they think that the activity of religious communities should be financed from this 0.6%. I stress once again the existing, not the increased income. Why am I stressing this so much? Because, however, it is almost five times the amount or, in fact, five times the amount so far allocated to the financing of religious communities. I don't understand what the hell's bothering you about this? I really don't understand. Is it possible that you are deeply afraid that Slovenians and Slovenes or citizens will not devote half this amount to individual religious communities, that in reality the response will not be the same as the Liberal Democracy, and I must say that I explicitly agree with such a proposal that it will not devote this money to the functioning of religious communities. Here's a question that's very rhetorical. However, it might be useful to find out how many people would be prepared to pay their income, which they already have to pay, for the operation of any already religious community operating in Slovenia. That is why I would like to stress here in particular if someone in this national assembly or anywhere in Slovenia who is a taxpayer says that he thinks so and proposes proposals, puts proposals that he or she thinks are good for the believers, then of course there is no man in this country who would have the right to say that decisions on what is good for the believers and what is not should be left to the believers. I'd like to say that this is our money together. That, as part of the State budget for financing, the functioning of religious communities, all this money, as it is, consists of the fees that all citizens of this country pay, whether we are faithful or not. Thus, no one can deny us the right that those who are not faithful should not have the right to say that we are thinking about these proposals for the good of the believers. I am convinced that this amendment gives more money to religious communities and more opportunities for action, such as the current situation. And what is the situation that is recorded in this law, which does not have any numbers, but precisely because it does not have any numbers, is actually a problem because it is a very unclear situation, because suddenly there is, except for Article 27, a number of articles that interfere with the budget because it will have to be financed, and not in the state budget, but even in the budget registers, let's say in the health treasury, where it is clearly stated that it will have to be financed by priests who will continue to operate in hospitals from health money. It is amazing how a wide fan of rights took this law, or a billmaker, when he decreed where it would be necessary to provide money for individual religious communities and even churches to carry out their activities, which should be funded logically only by believers and no one else. But well, we have been working in this country for 50 years by funding the activities of religious communities, not only the restoration of cultural monuments that are in use by religious communities, but also the activity of religious communities, and it is right to continue this way, but, as we say, I believe that this amendment, which the Liberal Democrats have tabled, is a much better solution to the situation than it has been so far. And now there's only one article written before, and so I apologize for saying it, but it doesn't apply to the amendment itself. An article that discusses the need for a location or space for the construction of religious buildings to be envisaged in the adoption of decisions on spatial implementing acts in the context of new settlements. I must say that this is a classic example of how the state imposes its laws on municipalities certain obligations for which it has not provided the necessary resources. This is about two aspects. One aspect is that it will be necessary to provide funds for the preparation of a spatial implementing act for part, to finance part of a spatial implementing act for a purpose other than that of the municipality, saying that a new task has been given to the municipality. Secondly, building land must also be provided for this purpose. Whether it will be necessary to decommission the land if it happens to be owned by a person of private law, or whether the municipality will have to assign the land to that religious community that will build a religious facility in that area. So I must say that we should not go into any other way, such as with regard to which religious community we will build a religious building or envision the construction of a religious building in a certain settlement. For this reason, I say that this is a classic case for initiating a constitutional and legal assessment of this law once it is adopted, because it will be adopted in any way as you wish in the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you. You have not been appointed, but you can apply for the debate because the debate on Article 27 and the amendment to this Article has not yet been concluded. Here you go, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. I'll discuss it. I will not support the amendment because I believe that the proposed solution at this time is inadequate to ensure social security for the employees of churches and other religious communities. Of course, the proposed amendment does not correspond to the proposed amendment and, from this point of view, an amendment has been tabled, and I would call it a provocative amendment. In the final stage, why provocative? Because, at the final stage of all this debate today, I firmly believe that you do not know the final result of the proposed amendment if, of course, the amendment was adopted. This has also been announced on your part, so the proposed solution, I say again, is, at this point, the most appropriate at this time, to at least ensure this social security of the staff. I must say that once we should be clear that these employees are only performing an important task in this society. On Sunday, the new church bishop mentioned how Slovenians and Slovenians can be proud of many sacral objects that spread throughout Slovenia. I am proud, however, that even those who have proposed this amendment today, that you are proud of these objects, even this said that very little or certain is that there is no country in the world that would be so densely sown in such a small space with sacral objects as Slovenia. Who cares if these facilities are maintained? We know who built them, we didn't build them, so today we don't even have the right to debate here that we won't tell some who care about these sacral buildings, but you're on your own or on your own. In fact, this means that, at the final stage, we publicly state that we are in favour of the demolition of these facilities, and I do not think that there is any right to debate in this context in the National Assembly. I must say, when you have discussed extensively how much money from the state budget was intended for the preservation of sacral buildings. I have to tell you, I believe, and I myself have been involved in certain projects, that much depended on how much the State has dedicated to a particular sacral facility, on how active they have been, on how active they have been, on how hard they have worked to restore the church for which the priest is in charge, and on how well its efforts have certainly contributed, and on how much its engagement has contributed, and on how much it has been from the State budget, that certain money has also been earmarked or allocated for reconstruction, in addition to how much the believers have contributed. If I may say so now, certain financial resources are, and are, of course, also earmarked on the basis of a certain key from the municipal budget, and from this point of view, I would like to say that I am in favour of the proposed proposal, which would at least partially guarantee social security for these people. I think it has been said several times because some of the surprises mentioned in Article 26, spatial plans or how those who adopt spatial plans, we know that these are local communities, in preparing spatial plans, we are not talking today about implementing acts, as has been said before, but about adopting spatial plans to invite religious communities together. This is clearly stated, they are invited along with the preparation of spatial plans, and in the final stages the local community or the municipal council adopts a spatial plan. However, that you think that we are still mayors or those responsible for spatial plans is such that we do not invite them along, but I am surprised that there is one solution given here that will not be a problem in 5, 10 or 15 years, when someone would have expressed a desire and also had the financial means to build this in the local community with a spatial plan. This is the duty of the local community, or I myself agree that this would be more intermediate, and I also expect it to be as soon as we change the law on space regulation, that it is also defined there. Look, dear colleagues and colleagues, we also have to plan a space for the cemetery in space plans, if we're not enough where we're going to spread it, unless we're doing what was done during the war or after World War II, that we were just burying where it was. As we care about others, I would say, interested, whether it's investors or those who are looking for interest or who will have an interest in the use of space in the local community, which is, among other things, what is proposed here, then let's be correct and not discuss some purely other matters, that someone is now forcing us or directing us, and here you will have to provide space for a sacral facility, which is not written anywhere. However, it says that if I say so now, we should invite interested parties to cooperate, and if it is finally concluded that the interest in the public presentation of the spatial plan will also be of interest to all citizens, then the municipal council will probably accept it if they do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr Kontić has the floor to prepare Mrs Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u229	You are presenting a provocative purpose to us, or to those who have proposed an amendment, and to those who support it, even though I think it is for good purposes and would be a good arrangement for financing. I could say that the very title of this law is provocative in the light of the solutions contained in the law, and I will not be giving this particular argument. So much imagination that after this amendment has been tabled, someone can conclude that we are the ones who are advocating the amendment for the sacral objects to collapse, and this is a great deal of diversion and flooding. When we talk about sacral objects, I am not faithful, but I like these churches on Slovenian hills, even the enlightened, although many ask whose money they are lighting up for. But they are and will remain a cultural heritage and no one has Mr Capuder, when you get the word, you can speak, but now I ask you to listen or at least not to disturb. [[...]] But you don't seem to have any help, according to the findings so far. So to report to someone that, because he will support this amendment, he will act in the direction that the sacral objects are being destroyed, and that he advocates a way of burying as he did during World War II, which is an idea that I have not witnessed to her in this State Assembly until now, and I hope that I will not see her in the future. And to talk about the construction of the sacral object at this amendment - there is no connection to the construction of the sacral object at this amendment - but because you have all talked about the construction of the sacral objects, let me also say this, and because several times in the presentation of the law on religious freedom has been spoken of this in mind, speaking of the fact that in Velenj it is not possible to build a sacral object under the authority that is at this moment - you are nodding again, Mr. Capuder, because your head will fall down from the shoulder - that is not possible. Mr President, if we made order in the Chamber, that would not be the case and you should not have to nod either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u230	I don't think anyone's bothering the speaker, and you can keep talking quietly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u231	It's such an assessment, more shaken from the sleeve. But see, once again, in Velenje you have found that it is not possible to build a sacral building, that the church for the construction of the sacral building does not get permission and that there is no land. Let me tell you that even procedures are being carried out in agreement with the council of Velenje City Municipality, that the land is being replaced and that a sacral building can be built on the replacement land, so do not use false information, because this is not actually true.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you. Mrs Potrate has the floor to prepare Mrs Pecan. You're giving up. Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thanks, buddy. Just a minute. I'd just like to say it again. At least ten times, if not fifteen times, I have used the word that this amendment relates to the financing of the functioning of religious communities. The functioning of religious communities means financing the current consumption of religious communities rather than investment activities. This does not mean that it is not, the state budget will not replace its funds for the reconstruction and regulation of sacral facilities as it has done so far. Not because there's a big difference here. Our country is financing the restoration of sacral buildings because they are cultural monuments, not because it trains objects for religious activities. These are two different things, and if a parishioner wants to restore his church to be more suitable for religious activities, if he wants to sound it, if he wants to relight it inside, if he wants to whiten it, if he wants to say domestically, or if he wants to bring the heat in because you have a dog's cold inside in the winter, I can tell you by my own experience, then it's logical that the money should be spent on the income of the religious community. However, if the cultural monument is being rebuilt, of course it will be very rich, as far as I know, it was co-financed by the state. And if I say one more thing now, you can't tell me, neither me nor anyone else who has anything to do with the restoration of religious objects, because it's cultural monuments, that even those who don't believe would not be involved in this activity. Please be correct, be honest, whenever there was a need to help, we helped.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. Finally, all I decided to do was sign up for this amendment or this law. I will not undermine the amendment to Article 27 of the Religious Freedom Act, but I will be happy to press the "for" button of this law, because by this law we are putting this matter into normal European frameworks, as other European countries know. The law is completely comparable to those in other European countries. I know that it will be difficult to reach 100% consensus in this area, but we have lived too long in different situations than Western Europe. With the adoption of this law, there will be no eclipse of democracy, as Mr Školč said earlier, I am sorry that he is not here now. We've had this eclipse before, I'd say, for a very long time. I am sure that it is not possible for this to happen again now that we are members of the European Union. Mr Rezman and Mrs Pečanov also talked a little earlier about the 26th article, about what the local community must do in preparing the spatial acts, and I was finally challenged by my colleague Bojan, and again I am sorry that he went out - but, he is here - who praised how things are going well in Velenje, maybe this year things are going well, I do not know the details now, but I know that the last 10 years in Velenj things did not go well, they were going very slowly or very badly. For more than 10 years, the parish community of blessed Anton Martin Slomšk has had a walled land, a beautiful land, a suitable land, but for more than 10 years has not succeeded in changing the spatial act, because the city urbanists did not agree that a sacral building would be built in Velenje, despite the fact that we all know that Velenje was in the postwar period, we can say that the village became the 5th largest Slovenian city to build a very large new neighbourhood, Šalek 1, Šalek 2, Selo, Gorica, but in all this period no sacral building was built. Now that the pastoral community has acquired land, it has already had all the projects, the implementation projects, but it has cost more than 10 years because there has been no hearing to change plans. I am glad that things are changing in Velenj, as I was informed today, and that the matter is going to be glass. Although I have to say that I'm a little sad because I heard a replacement because it means that from one very beautiful, suitable location in the city something is pushing something to rob. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you. Anybody else want to talk about Article 27? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and turn to the debate on Article 33 of the Law and on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u237	Dear Mr. President! We have a little time left, friends, but I think I'll be able to say what I want. This amendment speaks in particular of the fact that the State must be the one giving the initiative to declare religious communities. Indeed, we say that the competent authority must call upon religious communities that are already registered under the current law to renew registration, that is all. As a result of this change, the basic text states that these religious communities must do so themselves. They'll be big ones, because they've got the camera, and the little ones are gonna be melting again, and they're not gonna find it, and then they're gonna miss a deadline. I think you can support this because it speaks of the kindness of this country. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, Mr. Chapar, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is understandable and good for the amendment's proposer to draw the attention of the religious community in a timely manner to what the law imposes on them, but the bill-maker considers that this amendment is not necessary, since the second paragraph of Article 33, in its existing form, clearly defines the procedure, taking into account, of course, users' friendly public administration, taking into account Article 30 of the law and the provisions of the current decision establishing the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for religious communities, which imposes, inter alia, on the Office to provide professional assistance and to inform religious communities of the rules, other acts and measures relating to their functioning. Well, that's taken care of. Accordingly, no later than three months after the entry into force of the law, the Office will notify the declared religious communities and prepare a consultation, a special consultation of the representatives of these religious communities, where this will also be orally explained and possible uncertainties will be resolved in the discussion, and then we will be in constant contact with the religious communities in the implementation of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I have a little time, I'll be relatively short. I will not support this amendment, nor will it be supported by our Group of Members. The amendment bothers me, or he looks very innocent, and it bothers me two. I have to look at it with a critically negative look. First, to shorten the registration period from three years to one year, why it is necessary, however, because it takes a certain period of time to comply with the conditions of registration referred to in Article 14. And whoever fails to comply with these conditions of registration is deleted from the register. And I think it's a loop, as short as possible, to erase as much as possible, it can if I look negative on this part. Second, that the text of the church is deliberately or unintentionally omitted, which is not in accordance with the first paragraph to which the text of the amendment refers. Because the first paragraph speaks, the church and other religious communities that are on the day of the application of this law and so on. The amendment leaks the word church. This is not in accordance with the other articles of the proposed law, which lists churches and other religious communities. I wonder whether this is a mistake or a intention, from the discussions so far, both in the national assembly and in the national working body, I am convinced that this is not a mistake, but the intention to break the basic concept of the law or to make it within themselves, to determine the non-constant, which is why I will not support this amendment. However, Mr Čepar replied who was the competent authority and that the matter was settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the transitional discussions of my fellow Members from the New Slovenia Group as a whole. I, too, think that the proposal for a law drafted by the government shows that this area has been comprehensively regulated, and that it is the very proposal of the law that is truly the fruit of years of preparation and coordination. This is particularly important, and is also coordinated with religious communities. Now, however, the time has come for the marriage to be also in the legal procedure, which is certainly a joy. The bill certainly follows the basic principle of democratic society, which is the principle of universal understanding of human rights. Thus, in the sense of international documents on the one hand, and especially within the meaning of our Constitution and also within the meaning of this bill, which preserves - and I would really like to stress that the law upholds the principle, the basic principle of the Constitution of separation from the State. I have no doubt about the maturity of most of this national assembly, which supports the law, nor the views of the religious communities that have been defined by this law. I would not repeat their majority view that they support the law, and you can read it again in the position you took, and it was written in their July communication. In the context of today's debate, we have found that the time has come to learn and recognize that the State and the religious communities, despite the continued principle of separation of the State from the religious communities, have a common point which they need to give weight to, and give this weight accordingly. Religious freedom as an individual is now universal and fully recognized. Nowhere else has there been legal provisions on what an individual should and should not believe, nor has it established that a religious community should be involved or registered and cooperated if it does not so wish. Nevertheless, there are all kinds of instruments that make it possible for religious communities to operate within a legal framework. In my opinion, these frameworks are adequately defined in the draft law, and I therefore assess the amendment of the LDS Club as unnecessary amendment to Article 33. Finally, let me stress what seems most important to me, that we are also bringing normalisation into this area in our country, and above all that it is a law that is Europeanly comparable to regulation in other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 23.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Redecision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. At its 14th extraordinary meeting on 29 June 2006, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education. The request was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Mohet, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you very much for your word. Nice greeting to all present in the hall. At the meeting of the committee, a representative of the State Council said in explanation of their request that the law in the majority was not in line with the main partners, this is mainly with universities and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which is of course not good, especially if we know that the provisions of this law will apply to a number of strong populations from those who have already graduated to a future generation of students and students. According to the Council of State, the law on the comparison of the level of education partially deprives graduates of their rights so far of higher education curricula, as well as the legitimate expectations of students enrolled in the new study programmes in line with the Bologna process. The law abolishes the public higher education agency and changes the tasks and composition of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education and thus does not allow for an independent and functional external assessment of the quality of higher education, as it leaves the quality of higher education mostly to representatives of higher education institutions appointed by the Government. Nor does the law provide a firm assurance that the first and second rates of tuition cannot be introduced. University representatives said that only these gave individual solutions to the law a number of their proposals and comments which the Rectors specifically presented on the Committee. However, following the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, they found that most of their proposals had not been taken into account. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly considers that the allegations made by the State Council are largely flawed and not justified in a legally relevant manner. However, there is still the thought that neither the State Administration Act nor the Government Act allow any professional consultative body as a government authority to perform administrative tasks. Representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia objected to amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, which are largely inconsistent with them. In their view, however, disputed solutions are mainly concerning the placement of the level of education of old and new degrees in which the rights already acquired are seized and there is no equal treatment of graduates. They are also against the abolition of the Higher Education Agency and the related inadequate extension of the functions and powers of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. They are opposed to the possibility of introducing master programmes for areas where this is not necessary. The student organisation stressed in particular that it is still not appropriate to ensure that fees at first and second rates are not introduced. In a broad debate, the opposition considered that a re-decision on the law gave the opportunity to identify the shortcomings of the law on the basis of professional arguments, which many institutions point out. When adopting this law, it is imperative to reach consensus between the main partners, as otherwise there will be undesirable disputes which will harm the further development of Slovenian higher education, to be corrected and to update in particular the provisions relating to the comparison of the level of education of former and future graduates in order to achieve as few injustices as possible. Public higher education agencies should not be replaced by transferring some of their powers to the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education if we are to have an independent body in this area. The law also unequivocally states that the State will provide free education at the first and second rates of Bologna. Contrary to the opposition, however, members of the coalition felt that the amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act were good and appropriate, although they were not ideal for classifying the level of education. Therefore, in their view, the law should be adopted when re-decision is taken. Following the debate, the Higher Education, Science and Technology Development Committee, with seven votes by the opposition against and four votes by the coalition, adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to adopt a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. I give the floor to Dr. Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to explain the government's opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u247	Dear High Council, honourable President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education was also opposed by the Government and the Government's opinion is largely covered by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, if I read only the main points, was written in the opinion of the National Assembly in order to re-examine or reject the law. The legislative and legal service says so, the request of the Council of State for re-decision confirms several violations of the decisions of the Republic of Slovenia, but does not justify this in a legally relevant way, which would allow the legal and legal service to define itself on matters of a legal nature. The claims of a violation of the rule of law are defined only as a non-explanatory statement and, of course, nothing can be said on this basis. These claims can only be found that the law on higher education does not in any way amend the provisions of Article 33 of the Higher Education Act, which provides for the classification of study programmes in 3 Bologna levels and could be the only legal basis for the conclusion of contracts for admission to study programmes, so that at the time of entry into study programmes students could know exactly at which stage of the Bologna Study they were enrolled and this novel in no point prevents this and does not change this Article 33. If we move forward, of course, I'm in this explanation for veto. In the national world, it has been evident that the law equals the level of education of old and new degrees, in line with a number of nostration decisions, this matter is not concrete. With regard to the fact that the law takes the rights already acquired by students, employers, as it reduces their role in the world of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, the legislative service considers that it is not a matter of acquired rights, since the legislator can autonomously determine or modify the composition of the world and its duties. So again, if we're just talking about all these claims, I'm not going to look so much at the rest of them, because they, most of them, triggered exactly these levels of education, I would say the following again. What we talked about, most of which was comments, was that there was a confusion between the terms of the call for a job and the conditions for employment and the level of education. The conditions for employment may be different for the same job, such as some education and a certain number of years of education, but may be lower education and more work experience, and therefore for the same job, which is classified as a certain level, in some tariff class, two different educations may be prescribed, and of course this law does not speak of any conditions for employment, but speaks of the levels of education that one acquires on the official state education system, so these were the main points of dispute. As far as the composition of the Higher Education Affairs Council is concerned, of course, it is necessary to say, and we have repeatedly said that this world in the new proposal has gone in the same direction as the students wanted. The number of experts from 7 to 13 has expanded. We also gave, and there is no government representative, there are no government representatives in the new Higher Education Council and there were three in the previous. There were three student representatives in the old proposal, four in the new one. Of course, this is all about the fact that this world is significantly more independent of the government than it was before, and therefore there is no reason to oppose it. The participation of the student was also specifically asked about international organisations. And there was also agreement that students could join these organisations, and this is where this proposal was made, which was not the case in the previous ones. As far as study 5+0 is concerned, our regulation is such as that in most Western European countries, that 5+0 programmes are not generally available, in short, that colleges and universities are not allowed to tender 5+0 programmes on their own, but are either allowed in European regulated professions and in professions for which the country, by regulation or law, finds that such educational profiles are needed. So that's a limit that was not in the previous marriage. The claims concerning the fact that the study is not defined as free, the exact diction in this law explicitly states that the study at the first and second Bologna levels for students is free of charge and that this is paid by the state is written explicitly. And the claims that this is not exactly written are completely fictitious. Thank you very much. I ask the National Assembly to take these particulars into account, to review in fact the content of this amendment of the law and to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues and also the Minister! Yesterday, when I asked the minister a question, I told him that in the field of education, specifically higher education, he continued the experimental work of a minister or government. Experimental work with affected population of students or former graduates. Although the law on higher education also regulates substantively what should be essentially regulated by the 2004 Higher Education Act. Today we are actually in a state that in the Republic of Slovenia, in our country, we do not yet have the titles. Since old students do not yet have the legal basis for being comparable to new ones, in practice it is already happening that they are in an unequal position compared to the graduates of other EU Member States. These are facts, this is indeed and this kind of harmonisation is of course a logical consequence, an urgent consequence of the open space in 2004 in terms of employment of foreign labour in our country. It is happening, as I have already said, that due to the irregular status or titles themselves, a Slovenian diplomat, for example, cannot run for tender within the European institutions. However, the proposal for a law in this form basically undermines the essence, purpose, or purpose of Bologna. The rates set are inadequate and what I pointed out both at the meeting of the parent working body and in the context of yesterday's question, the Slovenian Bologna System is taking and degraded. Then they had been warned earlier at universities, alerted by students, the world for higher education, employers and so on. And last but not least, he gave a clear warning to the state council by means of a veto to the law. Dear Minister, you know, these are warnings, serious warnings, and they have not commended for the excellent work done or for the very well-prepared law. Let me do it again. Today we are again deciding on the law on higher education, on solutions that fundamentally affect the rights already acquired by current and future graduates. The Slovenian student organisation points out that the amendment of the law is contrary to the principles of the rule of law. It is also contentious because it introduces a diploma without value in the labour market and thus forces students to extend their studies. A new system of external quality assurance on higher education, which will not work according to the principles of partnership, professionalism and independence, is also inadequate. The new law is not in line with the main social partners in higher education and means, if you want, in fact some kind of end to the reform of Bologna study programmes. The point of Bologna is faded by this law or such a bill. The law has certain solutions that are also contrary to what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned. They are spreading, we have heard, the powers of the High Education Council within the framework of a new, different definition of the status of that world. The equation of new and old students is supposed to be contrary to a number of non-strictification decisions on education abroad, which the Minister has not denied today. The first degree Bologna degree is being evaluated, and the Bologna Master's degree is also being evaluated. What is important when the Minister refers to comparable regulation with other European countries. You know, with its Bologna version, the European Union actually allows individual countries to regulate the system under their national law. Germany follows the principle that no one should be deprived of the title or degree which it has already acquired during education. Slovenia has undertaken these reforms differently. I'm asking why or what? The proposed solutions also raise questions about compliance with Article 155 of the Constitution. It is expected that retroactivity or feedback, which can lead to changes in collective agreements in order to comply with the new regime, will result, last but not least, in such a warning given by a representative of employers or trade unions, I apologize for the changes to the systematisation and employment agreements on the part of the home body. Nor did the Minister deny it, nor during the course of yesterday's parliamentary question, nor during today's opening presentation. One more thing is very important. This afternoon, we received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the veto voted by the Council of State, despite the veto being voted and sent to the National Assembly by 29.6. And the Minister is trying, or the government is trying to explain how it is with that regulation, which I have specifically mentioned several times in this House in recent days. This is the regulation that degrades students who take VII. level of education. I don't know if the minister knows or is deceiving. In fact, yesterday the minister spoke in the same context about high school graduates, and today he is talking about high school graduates. I would like to point out that this is an essential difference. The essential difference that the Minister has failed to take into account, which is why I claim here that he is deceiving or that the information he is making before this Parliament and the public is not real. Unreal also because of one important fact. In fact, university graduates did not study for just three years, as stated in this opinion of the government, but four years and this study, which enabled them or gave them VII. The level of education allowed them, despite the fact that the opinion stated otherwise, the direct continuation of the study on Master's degree. These are facts that contradict what the government says. Therefore, once again from this city, I stress that what the government claims is extremely misleading, and that it would really make sense to make this law a broader debate, we call it "yes". We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u251	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the request of the Council of State for a re-decision on the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education, we report that we will back up the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because the law is a good one, the fruit of a thorough reflection of most entities in the field of higher education, and Slovenia must also align its legislation with the Bologna process. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we note that the Council of State has very superficially touched on the content of the Higher Education Act, which was also found in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which found that the arguments of the National Assembly are on the stalemate. The legal and legal service has so professionally rejected all the findings of the State Council. We also believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the findings of the state Council of Vines are unprofessional and, above all, demagos populism. It is sad that the Council of State, which, under its constitutional function, is supposed to be a representative of the country's broadest interests, has succumbed to the influence of political interests and some very private material interests which unwarrantedly reflect the violation of the principles of the rule of law. It is also not true that the State Council claims that the law is opposed by all three universities, since the Committee on Higher Education has made it clear that the opinion of the University of Maribor was not rejected by law. Instigators against the law tried, through the work of student officials, to inflame the belief that the law discriminates against students who study on Bologna programs because in Article 15 regulates the relationship between the level of education of university graduates to future graduates of Bologna programmes. When the law was passed, these same opponents of the law insisted on the devaluation of the education of 130 thousand university graduates who wanted to lower their education by law to the first grade of Bologna. They were led by private interests at the expense of the nationals. This would lower the educational level of Slovenia to the educational level of one of Botswana, thus placing the diplomas of present and future students on the equivalent of the Bocwan diplomas. And that is certainly not in the interest of the current generation of students. It is better that their diplomas in the European market be treated as equivalent to German diplomas, Austrians. As this strategy did not work out, those who wanted to devalue the educational level of 130 thousand graduates have now made "salto mortale" and claim that the law takes away the acquired rights of university graduates and their diploma devalues. In doing so, they mixed the law, government regulations, tariff classes, the former to survive the social agreement on the uniform basis for classification of professions and vocational education and ignored the recommendations of the European Union on the framework for classification of European higher education. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that in the field of relations and levels of education, different levels of education, it is not possible to find a completely ideal solution because there have been too many reforms and experiments in the field of education in the past. The law makes a legal void in this area, and it regulates things. The Council of State has repeated known indications regarding the competence of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, which have already been professionally rejected. It seems to disturb them that the law establishes him as an independent and independent body. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also reject the instigations relating to the regulation of the financing of the first and second Bologna rates, which are free of charge in accordance with the provisions of the law. This is a large capital for young people who study, so talking about the possibility of tuition in connection with this law is pure demagogy. Since there was also an initiative to call a legislative referendum, which did not satisfy the provisions of the law, the veto voted to stop it, and to say that the explanation of the initiative is identical to the explanation of the state council and is based on the same ideological logos or under the same impostors. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we stress that, of course, it is not necessary to spread money and sit down to advocates or authors of failed past school reforms and solutions in this area. From a political point of view, we would be delighted by the referendum, as we would achieve a clear political victory for at least 130 000 university-led graduates, who would like to lower the level of education behind the scenes and take away the level of education, it will not be possible to deceive ourselves with the populism that we are also witnessing in the initiative of the State Council. We therefore stress once again that we will once again support the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to all present. In the LDS, we welcome the opportunity to reconsider the law on higher education. It is more than obvious that the law is opposed by the interested and professional public, including the University of Ljubljana and the University of Primorska, the Chamber of Commerce, the Employers' Association, the Student Organisation of Slovenia and, last but not least, the Government Council for Higher Education. The adoption of the law thus points to the arrogance of the government, which is its daily practice. There is a great danger that the law will cause more than too much inequality and will evaluate both the high-level diplomas so far and the new first-degree university diplomas. And it is clear in the law that graduates of higher vocational schools are classified as the first level of the Bologna, this in itself is not disputed, but classification causes us to be placed in the sixth level after this law has been enforced, while they have been placed in the sixth level since their entry into force in 7, which can also lead to changes in employment contracts, reduction of wages, reduction of social rights, although such rights have already been enjoyed by graduates. The law also interferes with the external and independent quality assurance of higher education. Instead of defending the public higher education agency, which would carry out development and advisory work in higher education, as well as external evaluation only, the law abolishes the public agency and introduces the Senate of the Council, namely the accreditation, evaluation and habilitation Senate appointed by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, which is the name of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to two universities, students and some members of the opposition, after such proposed changes, the decision on accreditation and evaluation loses the independent professional support it already has in the existing system within the Agency. The proposal that the professional, organisational and administrative functions of the Council be carried out by an authority in the composition of the Ministry does not guarantee the independence of this service. The legislative and legal services of the National Assembly are also critical to such solutions, as they note that the Council set up by the Government has a professional consultative role in relation to the other powers of the government. There is no constitutional provision in constitutional regulation, chapter 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, nor any legislation in this field, in particular the State Administration Act, gives an adequate constitutional or legal basis for any other role of the world set up by the Government as an expert advisory body for the government. Nevertheless, the proposed amendments further extend the competence of the Council, which could constitute the exercise of public authority in the proposed content. In particular, it is a matter of taking over certain decision-making powers, deciding on the evaluation criteria to be carried out under the applicable law by a public agency and deciding on the rights of individuals, in particular habilitation. The proposed designation of the Council also raises questions about the specificity of regulation and interference with the autonomy of universities and other higher schools. The Council would decide on the individual rights and claims of parties not governed by this law and the rules issued on its basis under the law governing the general administrative procedure. For such a formulation means that the Council should also decide on the rights and claims of parties not governed by law, not by law. As this is obviously not possible in our legal system, it is likely that it is intended to reject the application of procedural rules in cases where the law does not contain specific procedural rules for deciding on individual rights, which should also be clearly recorded. In the Liberal Democracy, we are convinced that it was wise to change the law in a complex way by first adopting a national qualification framework, then amending or supplementing the law on higher education and finally introducing and applying the qualification system for education and training. Unfortunately, the government has taken the opposite path because it has triggered an unqualified adoption of the law, so in the LDS we expect the coalition to understand that in this case it has raised too much awareness of the reckless law and will, by not voting this law, take the time to reconsider and to prepare a law that will primarily take care of the three, the security of the employment of present graduates, the fair evaluation of the work of students and students of future generations and the regulation of the world, so that it will not lose independent professional support and indirectly, that it will not interfere with the autonomy of universities and that it will work in accordance with our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the views of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. It is no surprise for the Socialist Group of Members that the demands of the Council of State after the re-voting of the Higher Education Act are not surprised, nor is it surprising that the opinion of the RS Government on the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on this law, that in all points of the request of the Council of State, it is not surprising, therefore, that I repeat the position of the Socialist Group of Members that we have not found any new reasons why it is necessary to change the view of the Higher Education Act, which is why we will not support it. We regret that the creation of the law on higher education, as well as its amendments and additions, has taken place in such an atmosphere, which is particularly characterized by the very diametric opposite of establishing attitudes towards the same substantive structures and, at the same time, unwillingness to reflect on such important changes to the law which decides on an area which is essential for the development of Slovenia if we want to become a society of knowledge that we have not had so much thought and ability to adopt a suggestion to adopt this law on a regular basis. We have also tried to achieve this law through a regular procedure in the framework of the partnership for development, which would nevertheless be an opportunity to extend the time to reach consensus between all those involved in this bill, but we have not been successful. This is the first thing that needs to be re-emphasized. For social democrats, a partnership agreement on important things is essential. It cannot be established for this law, but whether the Minister or the Government is talking about coordination taking place. We don't say anything, they're up to some point, but in key things, this law isn't harmonised. It is also true that we have received a written opinion from three Slovenian universities that the law from their point of view is also not harmonised. If I add trade unions, the Chamber of Commerce and others, it is really not possible to conclude otherwise than to rediscover that the law is not harmonised and that is the first reason why we will not support the law. Another time. At the time of the examination of the law, we have found, together with others who have assessed this law, that legal changes instead of progress have led to setbacks because the proposals in the law are not development-oriented and do not provide answers to the challenges facing Slovenia in the context of the Bologna and also within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy. Third time. The evaluation body of the higher education study shall be adopted by the highest consent in all arrangements. If he was to perform the tasks required of him by higher education. There is too much danger that new higher education institutions and new universities will be formed according to criteria that we will not be able to claim to be purely professional and that will not provide quality material and human resources standards. If Slovenia is to offer to the world a comparable, quality comparable study programme or standard of higher education, it should pay more attention to the quality of higher education and postgraduate studies, so that it should not be allowed to become a higher education of prey for all those who do not have adequate qualifications and references in order to survive on existing quality institutions. On the contrary, we are convinced by the Social Democrats that existing institutions should be guided into a new law and open up to the developed world. However, the situation in Slovenian higher education is so acute that it requires the immediate establishment of a quality agency and the initiation of evaluation procedures, so we are advocates of an independent higher education agency. And amending legislation should not jeopardise the initiation of these procedures, as should we not allow any change of government to be made by the evaluation body, as this could lead to higher education being under the care of external assessors who would not provide this, i.e. independent external evaluation. In this context, let me stress that the debate on how the higher education council should be composed is now of secondary importance to the social Democrats, because the competences that should in fact be the competences of an independent public education agency have been transferred to the higher education world. Fourthly, the law should, in our opinion, stipulate that the criteria for habilitation in the higher education world are at least as difficult as the most difficult criteria of Slovenian universities, as it would be possible to avoid suspicion of political or other allocation of titles. There's some experience from the past, though. Fifthly, we see no reason for special emphasis on the possibility of a single master's degree because it is possible under existing legislation, as is possible a single doctoral study. The reference to the European Qualifications Framework is, however, premature in this case, in our view, because it is only a proposal for a European Qualifications Framework and there is no consensus on this. Just as there is no agreement on qualifications in any other area, I am referring to vocational education. That is why, of course, if we make a qualification reference to this fence, we should, however, consider what may still happen within the framework of the European Higher Education Area, where it will have to be allowed to be acceptable for the entire European space, which allows for national regulation of this area, however. And here we do not exclude the possibility that any national regulated profession would be otherwise regulated as it is within Europe. The sixth objection to this law is related to the most frequently dealt with provision in this law, which is Article 15 of the Higher Education Act. It is true that the Social Democrats believe that it is indeed a matter of classification at the level of education and that we attach to the Minister of Higher Education that the titles are regulated by the law on scientific and research addresses. It is true, however, that there is also a need to regulate the conditions or standards under which graduates in current, existing programmes and Bologna programmes will enter the labour market and that solutions will be acceptable to each other. The least we can find out here is that there is no consensus on this. So these are the main reasons why marriage seems unacceptable. It is also true that it is necessary to adopt a law on higher education quickly and forcefully before we have adopted a national programme on higher education for the next five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! The Council of State decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should again decide on the law amending and supplementing the law on higher education. In the opinion of the Council of State, the amended law on higher education removes the already acquired rights of graduates of higher education curricula without the specified cause and interference with the right to return and thus violates the rule of law. The Council of State also considers that the adoption of the amendment to the Higher Education Act would violate the contract entered into at the time of entry into the current study programme approved by the State in which the level of education to be obtained by the participants was established when the studies were completed. In this case, it was meant to be VII. the level, at least so written in the rounding of the opinion of the State Council. On the basis of what level VII has been established today, no one knows. The social agreement on the uniform basis for classification of professions and vocational education, which was published in the Official Journal of the SFRJ in 1980, was not known at the time of higher education since it was introduced in our country, according to the independent Slovenia only in the study year 1995-1996. And the equivalent of a three-year high school vocational education and a university education that lasts for four or more years is already at least distasteful that I do not use any other term. As can be seen from the law, the legal provisions do not affect the rights of graduates after the Bologna processes. The transitional provisions in Article 15 regulate the relationship between the old or existing titles and the new titles obtained after the Bologna studies. It also states that the level of education obtained under the higher vocational education programmes corresponds to the level of education obtained under the first-degree vocational study programmes. There is no mention of any level of education, such as six or seven and its degradation. The article only discusses the comparability of levels of education through old and new study programmes. The Council of State also considers that the law takes away the legitimate expectations of students who have entered the new second degree study programmes and thus interferes with the principle of confidence in law. What was or could have been the legitimate expectations of the students, I don't know, because there's nothing written about it in the law. I hope that they are not what he presented at the June meeting of his fellow Member from the LDS, when he stated that education at the first Bologna level is equal to the old second level or university education and that five-year studies are master's studies. I couldn't agree more, but as I understood my colleague, and this was confirmed more than once, he was very obviously talking about a scientific master's degree, this is a study after finishing his current university degree. Such thinking is very clearly leading to the degradation of current university graduates and masters of science. In addition, I must mention that in New Slovenia we are surprised by the postponement of the Council of State because the Commission of the Council of State for Social Activities at its 45th meeting on 24.5.2006 addressed the proposal for a law and supported the transitional provisions of the novel, which is said to support the solutions in Article 15, which accurately regulate the level of education of the graduates so far compared to the level of education of the graduates of the new study programmes. And the rationale was to preserve the rights acquired for current graduates, both in continuing education and in employment. In Novi Slovenija we can't agree to the aspirations of some that a university graduate should want to compare his level of knowledge achieved with that of another Bologna level if he wants to do the same job, where the level of knowledge is required at the second Bologna level, to go to school for another year. Similarly, or comparable to what is regulated in the proposal for this law, things are arranged in neighbouring, comparable European countries. They are largely regulated by the provisions of the Act on Professional Titles or on the designation of degrees in higher education laws, and in part by other rules or decisions of competent authorities. The proposed solutions were supported by the rector of the University of Maribor and also supported by some of Ljubljana's faculties. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the solutions to the comparability of titles between old and new study programmes should be resolved already in 2004, when the current law on higher education was adopted. Unfortunately, then the ruling coalition did not have enough power to solve this problem. For this reason, again today, by reaffirming the already adopted law, we are abolishing the legal void regarding the relationship between diplomats of the current and new study programmes, as the National Assembly, by taking into account the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has to regulate everything necessary in the law so that a diplomat can determine his legal position already on the basis of the law, not on the basis of some promises given to someone. This applies in particular to equality in the labour market at home and abroad, but also to the framework for the continuation of studies. The provisions provided for in the law do not in any way amount to the equivalence or even equality of existing and new study programmes, only means that the level of education or the level of knowledge that has been acquired so far corresponds to the level of knowledge in the new higher education system. In New Slovenia, we have always opposed the aspirations of some individuals and institutions that the comparable level of knowledge achieved by current university graduates would be comparable to the level of knowledge achieved at the current first Bologna level. We are confident that the adoption of such a discriminatory solution would affect more than 120,000 university graduates who would be in a subordinate position to graduates at the second Bologna level. The current amendment to the Higher Education Act provides solutions in three other areas. It introduces a one-stage master's degree study, solves the issue of tuition for students enrolled on a regular basis in the first and second stages, and redefines the duties of the higher education world. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education will be independent, as proposed by law, in the performance of its tasks and decision-making. All decisions will be taken independently, professionally and impartially. Instead of a new public quality assurance agency, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia is expanding its tasks for higher education and, in addition to the tasks it has performed so far, will also assume the role of evaluation body. And for this part of its operation, according to the task of the evaluation body, the criteria necessary for its membership in the Enka have been taken into account and should be the agency or body responsible for ensuring quality. And as I know, the solutions proposed in the marriage were also confirmed by Enka. With the solutions proposed in Article 10 of this Law, the situation in the field of tuition is significantly improving in view of the current solutions in the law adopted by the previous Government and which did not allow students to study free of charge in all five years. At that time, it was established that the State provided sufficient financial resources in its budget for the implementation of at least four years of study programmes. In the fifth year, however, it provides funding for at least a third of the students. The solutions proposed by the Government follow a coalition commitment to pay for all students and students to complete the first and second rates of Bologna on a regular basis. The solutions are very clear and decisive in the law and it states that funding for the first and second stages of the study is provided in the State budget as common funds for the university or the independent higher education institution, taking into account the field of study and the number of students and graduates enrolled in the regular study in the first and second stages. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly also provided views on the procrastination veto. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council’s claims of a violation of the rule of law, the principles of trust in law and the principles of equality before the law are only defined as unfounded claims. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service also stated that the claim that the law violates a contract entered into at the time of entry into the current study programme and withdraws the legitimate expectations of students who have entered into the new study programmes of the second Bologna level is totally inappropriate, as it can only be established in such claims that the amendment of the law on higher education in no way amends the provisions of Article 33 of the Higher Education Act, which provides for the classification of study programmes in three Bologna levels and could be the only legal basis for the conclusion of contracts on admission to study programmes. In New Slovenia we also welcome new solutions in the law and will be happy to support the changes in the law once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed presence at the meeting! The National Assembly met several times during this term of office and also in previous mandates with the proposals of the State Council for a suspended veto. We have repeatedly, usually refused veto and reconfirmed the law. This is likely to happen today. However, what is happening here at this time after the adoption of the law, in this house and even more broadly, whether it is a misunderstanding of the law or it is a matter, we probably cannot say that there is any conjecture involved, and it is certainly one thing, and also in our Group of Members, to insist on this fact, that it is a lack of discussion and a lack of coordination within the stakeholders. Here I mean between the competent ministry and the institutions which are linked to this issue. I'm thinking of all three universities, student organisations, and even the end of the day, the employees at the university. The law on higher education had to be amended, it had to be adopted, because we were late with this topic and this should have been adopted a long time ago. However, most of the problems are the levels of education that some have acquired before this law is enforced and the education that will arise after the adoption of this law. Of course it's hard to get five drawers in three. We can probably all agree on that. It's just an understanding. Needed, that is, an unfortunate national qualification framework for which an agreement would be needed. In fact, you have not been able to achieve this with your partners, and now we are here, following the government's opinion, the government's opinion, how many opinions we have received here, so we will have to answer the student organisation's views and the questions that this law concerns, and these are, according to one calculation, 120 thousand and another, 200,000. [[...]] In our Group of Members, we will decide how we will vote in the end, after the debate. Certainly, if this law is confirmed today, the matter will not end, the matter will continue, perhaps in the Constitutional Court or otherwise. We want to, we do not want to complicate the situation, we want to solve it, and if in this debate we are all in the parliamentary group convinced that, as stated in the law already adopted, we will reject the veto and otherwise, as we say, we will vote according to our conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! I also welcome the state's Magnificent Councilman. Dušana Semolič, although he's not late to raise his ratings, he's human, and I don't blame him. However, we are deprived of an additional, perhaps broader explanation that I really wanted, since the Council of State has given me a medal, perhaps even an unconstant explanation for the veto on the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education, which is finally confirmed by the professional service, the legislative and legal service of this National Assembly. In opening, I would like to say that the levels of education that are discussed in the State Council's explanation are not governed by the Higher Education Act at all, but by the regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system of education and training adopted this year by the Government on 26 April. Prior to the adoption of the regulation in Slovenia there was no legal act to determine which education is included in what level. The law on higher education determines which old, so-called old education is comparable to which Bologna education. Where old and new programmes are comparable, Slovenia followed the European Qualifications Framework, the European Higher Education Qualifications Framework and the principle of maximum compliance, with one of the main criteria for the duration of the programme and the number of so-called credit points. The Regulation establishing and applying the classification system of education and training for the first time in Slovenia sets general levels of education. In Slovenia and Europe, the so-called Bologna Reform is undergoing a recast of the study programmes as defined in the Bologna Declaration and some other documents. This specifies that tertiary education, which is secondary education, takes place at three stages and determines for each stage its characteristics, qualifications acquired by an individual and the number of credit points at each level. For the first Bologna rate, three or four-year programmes range from 180 to 240 credit points, since the individual year of the study programme includes 60 credit points. For the second Bologna level, one or two-year programmes are envisaged depending on the duration of the relevant first-degree programme, so that the first and second stages are combined for 5 years. At the same time, with the introduction of new first-, second- and third-degree study programmes, of course, we still have old study programmes and graduates of these programmes. These are higher education programmes, such as higher education programmes, higher education vocational programmes and university programmes, where specialisations and master's degree in science and doctoral studies are possible. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires us to regulate everything in the law so that an individual, in this case a diplomat, can determine his legal position by law, changes in the law on higher education define the situation or comparability between old and new Bologna programmes. The law thus provides that in the Republic of Slovenia the level of education obtained under higher education programmes adopted prior to 1.1.1994 and the level of education obtained under higher education programmes corresponds to the first rate of Bologna. Together with the Regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system for education and training, this means that former higher education and current higher education vocational programmes are classified in statistical sub-level 6/1, higher education programmes together with specialisation, higher education programmes and first- Bologna programmes in sub-level 6/2, university education and higher vocational education levels together with completed specialisation are equivalent to the second Bologna level. These three groups of study programmes are placed in the Regulation at statistical level 7. The third rate of Bologna corresponds to the masters of science, university education, along with specialization, and the doctorate of science. The first two groups of study programmes are classified in sub-level 8/1 and the PhDs in sub-level 8/2. Such classification was made taking into account the European Qualifications Framework, the European Higher Education Qualifications Framework and the principle of maximum compliance, as stated. Slovenia has done the same in setting up the classification system as other countries in this area, and it has also established a national specificity that we have in the system higher education programmes which are classified in sub-level 6/1. Higher education professional programmes are classified in sub-level 6/2 together with the new first-degree Bologna programmes. The university study programmes, together with the second-level Bologna programmes, are comparable to them both according to the competences acquired by students of these programmes, as well as the duration and number of credit points they own. For the first stage, between 180 and 240 credit points are foreseen, so much as for higher education programmes, and for the first and the total of 300 credit points, which is about as much as university study programmes. Such classification is also used in the European Qualifications Framework in other countries, such as Germany, France, the Netherlands and Finland, and higher education vocational programmes are also comparable to first-degree studies under the Bologna System. This means that graduates of higher education programmes are guaranteed an equal position with graduates of such programmes from other European Union countries. I will also renew my support for the law after re-examined by the wishes of the State Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u262	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go, please. Mr. Mag. Grimes. No, no, it's not my fault, but I did have a record of you guys switching.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u263	It was meant to change, yes, because of that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u264	Yeah, if that's what it says.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u265	Only now my friend has a phone. But I think one of our Members will be missing later and I'll switch with him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u266	That's your problem. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u267	I'll discuss it later. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u268	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me say hello to the mag first. Dušana Semolič, the representative of the State Council between us, and I say that he has not missed anything because planning for work in this Parliament does not allow them to know exactly when the starting point is. If we followed the schedule of today's session with this item, we wouldn't have started yet. Because he's a magician. Dušan Semolič himself cannot announce at this time, it is only right to say this that he would not remain in the air somewhere, that he was late for the meeting. I thank the Council of State for the possibility of re-decision on this law, to give serious consideration to the content of this law and, on this basis, to our decision. I am convinced that the reasons why those who voted against or did not support the law should be changed and now supported is not. However, there are some reasons why those who voted in favour of the law should reconsider, and today the law is rejected, and there are some reasons. The most important reason for not supporting this law is certainly the opposition of students. The law that governs their affairs or their area and they oppose it is certainly not my support. However, I have heard in this debate again today a number of observations that the Council of State is supposed to be a representative of the broadest interests, and in this case it is not because it proposed veto. I wonder when we'd be, if we'd split up again on ours and yours. The most important reason given, at least in my opinion, apart from the opposition of students, is what was also stated in the opinion of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development and was the reason for the veto by the Council of State, that the law removes the already acquired rights of graduates of higher education curricula without having given cause and interference with the rights to return, thus violating the rule of law. I agree that no one should be deprived of the level of education or the title that he has received in the past through education. Some or at least one of the discussers also said that it was distasteful that they were now a high and higher education in the same level, says VII. Levels. However, it will not be distasteful if they are in the sixth grade together in higher and higher education. It is said that the taste of this debate and after this vote, if the law is adopted, will not improve anything at all. And also a warning that by classifying ourselves downwards in the level of education, we can help to make wage policy changes as well, and that individual contracts are certainly on the ground. And the conclusion that the referendum would be a good one, since informed university graduates could decide on the content of this law. So we have a conscious and unawakened. We'll share it with yours and our graduates again. That is what was said in this Chamber, in a presentation on behalf of the parliamentary group. There are many reasons why we do not support this law today. And by doing so, we can prepare a new law. For those who are squeezing the government or agreeing with the government, at the same time, point out that the government has not done enough to harmonise the various interests and to reach consensus with the partners with whom it should do so. And somehow astonishment that students demand that free education or education be registered in the law at the first and second stages of Bologna education, it certainly shows that trust is no longer here and that they want everything they require to be written in the law, because they do not really trust only the agreed word or given. So I won't support the marriage this time either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u270	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will not support the law because, at the very first time we voted on the law as a whole, it was clear from the bench we are meeting with members of the Social Democrats that there are several reasons why this law is not only mature, but even contrary to the interests of most people who are being touched in one way or another. I would first point out the Agency for Higher Education, which this law has been annulled, which was unfortunately only in the form of legal articles, but not in actual life realized as an independent and, above all, objective institution, which is supposed to focus on assessing the quality of higher education, so that we can ensure what we also read in the media some year ago that our higher education institutions and our institutions do not reach the level that we imagined they were achieving in Slovenia or that they do not reach the level that would be desirable in comparison with other higher education institutions in Europe and the world. Of course, the question is whether these assessments have been objective or not, but until we have available evaluation estimates, which we can confidently claim to be independent of both the government and the higher education providers themselves, we cannot say whether these assessments, which were made by institutions outside Slovenia, were sufficiently objective, fair enough to say so, and that this was not a deliberate possible degradation of the assessment of the level of our higher education study. The second reason is that, as colleague Kontič said, I cannot here but join him, once again this government, this time in the person of the Minister of Higher Education, to simply despise and despise any possibility of agreements, to negotiate and agree on some common objectives, to harmonise the texts of laws coming into the national assembly. On the contrary, in this case, but in other cases, in cases of other laws, it has already happened that, in the agreed text of the law with negotiating partners, with the social partners, when the law came into the National Assembly, there have been substantial changes through the amendments tabled by individual parliamentary groups. We've certainly come into a situation here where it is to understand students who don't believe in anything anymore. Even if the interpretation of the drafter of the law and later some members of the National Assembly and the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technological Development were, however, clear from the text of the law that education at first and second Bologna levels will be free of charge, the truth may be completely different. I am sure that the law must be clear, unequivocal, with precisely such flaws written that this education is free of charge, that we will not come into the situation, that Members of this National Assembly will not have the courage to look students in the eyes and say, when we voted for such a law, we were convinced that your request was met. I wasn't sure, and I'm not sure now, of course, that's why I can't vote in favour of such a law that doesn't accord with the interests of people, today's young people who will lead this country in the future, who will work in an economy that will work in the social sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u272	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will not support myself the veto put by the State Council on the Higher Education Act. The very explanation of the State Council, to which the legislative and legal services are also critical, says much about the fact that the explanation is written more in the form of misleading and, in particular, in support of a specific target group than in the professionally written explanation, which would be worth reconsidering in the National Assembly and may even otherwise be decided by re-voting. The law on higher education was widely discussed not only in the National Assembly but also in the framework of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. However, the main solutions provided by the Act are, in particular, the appropriate legal framework that establishes a quality assurance system, then the financing of the first and second stages of the study, in a way that funds for the first and second stages are provided in the State budget. This is why I am very surprised that some, here I am also talking about the student organisation of Slovenia, and about the opposition, can be so vehemently misleading to the public that these two levels will be paid, when the law clearly states that you will be free. I really don't know who these deceptions are good for, if anyone. Sometimes I even feel that a student organisation is being abused by certain circles, which are cleverly launching their ideas from behind, and that is why a person can't really blame them. In the public eye, however, the issue of the relationship between the previous and the new study programmes has been raised, where this provision is also mostly misinterpreted by this point, which does not mean equivalence, but means that the level of education that could have been obtained so far corresponds to the level of the new higher education system. This solution within the law in Article 15 is particularly important in order to preserve the rights acquired for current graduates, both in continuing education and in employment itself. With the adoption of the Bologna Declaration in 1999, which envisages the creation of a common higher education space, Slovenia is also forced to regulate this area. Slovenia must ensure, through appropriate legislation, the implementation of the orientations of the Bologna Declaration, as well as the comparability of the diplomas of our study programmes, which will enable the competitiveness of our graduates in the European labour market. And it is these matters that are regulated and made possible by law in Article 15. I also believe that it is important for the future functioning of the university and higher education area that the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education by law is defined as an independent body, which also has a high degree of credibility. For this reason, I also agree with the definition of his duties and powers, which the world will thus accept independently and impartially. It is precisely because of all these arguments and because of everything I have said that I will once again support this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to Minister Juret Zupan, again greeted by fellow Members and Members, as well as by the students who accompany us in this debate and who have already paid us a good visit and informed us and explained your views. As we have seen from past discussions, the debates in the process so far and the most of the nature of the area we are dealing with show that the system for regulating the level of education is a very complex issue. There are also many responses with letters we received from students. In opening, I would like to say that I have been happy with each of these letters that I have received recently, leaving behind those letters of individuals whose level of writing culture has been far below the level of a highly educated person. And once again, it turned out that fundamental rule that man is first human and that he must be a good expert first and foremost human. As I pointed out in my reply to the letters myself, I cannot feel responsible for the promises made by the higher education institutions or colleges after confirming those who oppose the law. Just as you will probably agree with me that no one can be responsible for what a seller with a good market move sells to a consumer. Finally, this one finds that this product is not the best. But everyone has their own market approach, and this is how they acquire consumers. Many times these letters have been mentioned, as well as in the debates, the word deception, honesty, legality. Now it seems to me that first we must all be together, those who are in favour, and those who are against, ask who is here deceiving someone, and who is deceived, who is here honest, who thinks here and who does not and who does not act legally and who does not. Those who were confirmed and supported at first reading of the law are certainly not deceived. We have set out the reasons why we need a proposal for a law, why we think solutions are appropriate, why we have justified them and based our decision on it. So we're not deceiving. Above all, we do not act unlawfully. Far from that, since there has been no provision to regulate the level of education in an integrated manner so far. This legal void would now, and I hope that this law will still be reaffirmed today, regulate the law along with the regulation. Then let me go on to the notion that perhaps that part of the individuals who oppose the law wanted to influence our Members and Members on emotional pay. Who's honest here and who's not fair here? Those who are against the solution provided by the law, along with the regulation, would find this fair: you want to compare those who have completed six exams, with an average of twenty exams, with those with eight semesters and once more exams and other obligations. Thus, by the logic of opposers, this is honesty. But let's leave this moral concept behind. Surely we cannot say that if someone wants to get to the goal of the shortcut, such an opportunity is allowed. However, this shortcut must also be legally recognised, within the legal framework, otherwise it would be unjustifiable to expect others to label these shortcuts as legitimate and legal. However, the wrong world would be, if expected from the responsible person, from the responsible party such as Nova Slovenije. And in this respect, I would like to conclude and say that I will re- back up the law with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u276	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, Your Honor. I'm gonna start maybe a little bit specific, maybe on a specific case. There were also talks today about grading some diplomas if you want graduates, grading studies. We've heard a lot about this. There was a speech about grading a master's degree, I mean this one of our sciences. I don't think so, because it turned out to be, and on the other hand it wouldn't be possible, because Europe didn't know such a study at all. Europe didn't know scientific mastery, it was professional. And that's what he's introducing, and we're introducing him now. Although Europe does not have it and we want to harmonise with Europe, this study needs to be put in a framework, a corridor comparable to Europe. There's no other way. And if we ask ourselves where the blame is. If he's anywhere, then he's here, not in this house, maybe, but in those who were in front of us, who are such a system or such a school way, if I may say, they introduced such a category, which was an exception, but there was nowhere else. These exceptions were, of course, possible, it's not the only exception, then I'll go back to some, maybe the most in the sky absorbing. Such exceptions were, of course, possible, because we were shut down and we were able to make innovations, so I'll call it that I won't say anything worse, that someone wouldn't misinterpret me, we could do such innovations, and nothing happened, we were all alive. We knew categories that others didn't, there was no problem, we were closed. But the problem is now that we have to balance ourselves with the European Union because they have done something different. We are now on the same market, in the same space, I am talking about the market because every graduate or every adult is also on the labour market. We sometimes didn't know that expression, we called it different. But it's a labour market where everyone has to find out, but it has to have some basis, some basis on which they can apply at all. Of course, that diploma is not everything, but it is one condition that you can run. With the entry into the European Union, perhaps a little earlier, these anomalies of our school system or innovation have become visible, have become exposed, have become visible and must now be resolved. It took a long time to prove that the solutions they have in neighbouring countries need to be taken. There is no need for innovation. And in neighbouring countries, of course, these solutions are consistent with the solutions in other countries of the European Union, which are not our neighbours. I'm talking about neighbors because today our students are going to these closest universities and neighbouring universities are the ones that are the most popular. That's why we're talking about neighbors, otherwise it wouldn't be necessary. The desire for degrees of 120 thousand university graduates to be less valuable than the second Bologna level would mean that these graduates would be in an unequal position in the labour market in Europe. This would mean that Slovenia alone, here at the moment we would admit that our schools are less valuable. We'd confirm it ourselves, no one would force us to do it, but we'll confirm it or not. And we will confirm if we do not accept this content as it is in this law that diplomas of this university level are less valuable than, say, diplomas from the pea university. I've talked about this before, or the whole thing. This means that if we continue to think about it or do not think about it, we will today confirm the law that this is so that we will acknowledge it. We will think more about it, and for more time we will think about how to solve it, and we will put more doubts into the quality of our schools. Now I'm going to ask the question: Is it true that our schools are less valuable, that our studies are less valuable, that our universities are less valuable than diplomas at neighboring universities? Are you still the one who opposes this law, still convinced that the Slovenian university degree at Slovenian University is not equivalent to the four-year university level in Graz, Celovac, Trieste, Gorica, Vidma and, if you want, in the river, Zagreb or if you want, in Bucharest or Sofia, where they have already adopted such legislation, where it is to study backwards? We're talking about what happened. It is true that graduates will be coming for several more years to meet exactly what we are accepting today. But we would continue to see whether our universities are equal to others, to those I counted. There are others, but let's just say I counted you if we don't accept it today. We'd keep talking, we'd talk about something else, but basically it means what I said, about the equality of these diplomas with the diplomas of these universities that I counted. For me, our universities, colleges, if you want, are equal to others. I don't know why they would text me if they didn't. In Slovenia, we have experimented a lot in the past with the school system, especially from a targeted education forward. It's been experimenting ever since. And that was too much. And if some of you think now, those who oppose this law, that our education is worse than European, I can tell you that I will not help you and will not attach you to it, because I believe that these experiments are enough. These specificities, which were completely different from most in Europe. And one more thing. Even if you're right to experiment in the past, our schools are less valuable, I won't admit it. And I also urge you not to admit that 120 thousand university degrees are less valuable. I said, "if," that no one would take my word for it, that's what I said. I said, "If you think so," because you're against this law, then I won't admit it, because because of this experimentation of these 120 thousand graduates, there's absolutely nothing to blame, so that now that we don't admit it or if we don't recognise this law, we can confirm this law, tell them that these schools are less valuable and their diploma is less valuable. That's why I'm not going to pin this on you, and I'm going to confirm the law as it is, once again. You don't have to admit it here either. We will evaluate our schools ourselves and ourselves, if you will, and we would now like to evaluate ourselves for the lower. I'm not going to help here, I'm not going to help, so I'm going to support this law and I did it before the veto fell because I think our education is equivalent to the one in Europe or the ones I mentioned earlier with our neighbors. What we do now in this law is basically a reassessment. That's not a forward assessment. That bologna study we solved, 4 plus 1 or 3 plus 2, whatever it looks like. That's what we solved. Those who study according to these new rules will be equal to those in other European countries because this system is the same. We're basically talking about grading back and there's nothing funny about me here. It's a serious matter. What evaluation will be made in the course of that study, and this will probably have to be done by universities and colleges themselves to prove that their graduates are equivalent, that they have the same knowledge of the duration of the studies as those I spoke about before. That's another thing. Then, of course, we come in different times. It is also a fact that more effort will have to be made because the borders are now open and we are no longer in a closed system. Students or potential students will be able to decide for themselves where to go to study. There will be no more problems in nostrating diplomas than they have been so far, that it almost made no sense to go to universities abroad, because then these diplomas were not recognised. Now it's not going to be that much, or at least it's not going to be that much anymore, so universities, colleges will have to make sure that they're quality and that we're going to prove by our work that they're equivalent. One more thing. If the colleges don't try to keep them even, then it's gonna be tough, then the students will leave, there won't be any students. Then what's it gonna be? It's probably gonna take some kind of program or some university to close it down. I hope this doesn't happen. Maybe that's why I'm talking a little bit sharper now. I hope this experiment is over now. As I mentioned earlier, Europe did not know the master of science, but it did not know the master’s degree in the EU, and it was the first stage recognised after the previous one, and the four-seven-year study, and it was also the first stage recognised in the previous system, and I am speaking, and it was a three-year study with six semesters, and it was the first stage, and it was all right and no one was upset. And then there's the other one. No one was upset that we had a five-semester first degree and then we had another five-semester second degree and four semester diplomas. After all, this meant nine semesters and two diplomas, and this was also a recognised second degree. We've had this as much as you want. I'm one of those. Now all of a sudden, we're making trouble from everything we can and we see problems where they're not there. Neither did they know the targeted study outside Europe, but we knew it. What should we say now is that those who went through targeted studies are not. They must be placed in a real corridor that will be acceptable with Europe. After all, with the entry into the EU of these things, I don't know how many times after a few thousand students we had to get into a corridor comparable to Europe. These were our specifics. We have to admit that and not act like it isn't. And now we're looking for problems where they don't exist. We were just experimenting with these students. The company's been experimenting. And now it is not their fault that they are not equal to, I don't know, the same long study in Europe. It just doesn't work. And there's something else. What we accept today will also apply to students who are still studying today and who are applying today will still be studying the old ones. The Bologna rate isn't everywhere yet. This does not mean that we cannot or should not or should not wish to "result" in a European way. But it is true that we now have fewer drawers available, I agree. We're probably all together here. And since we had exceptions in Slovenia, before in Yugoslavia, but you know that every exception has some injustice, that is a fact. Those exceptions that I found that from four to six semesters we had all the first steps, so far we had two diplomas, and so on. These are the facts. Of course, marriage is not ideal. It's not because it can't be. It can't be because we have to get all these anomalies in order, but I don't see any better approximation than this marriage. It started with those famous university diplomas, whether it's another Bologna degree or not. This started two years ago. There was a lot of discussion about that. There was a speech at the time that this could only be the first bologna rate in Slovenia. Of course, there was a cow and it was today, but those who defended it most accepted it. And who's freaking out today? The most feared are those who doubt that both rates of Bologna were free. These were the very ones who introduced the so-called extraordinary study to be paid. What's more than a paid study? It's a paying study, it's not a free study. And today you are afraid that everything is not clear whether both Bologna levels will be free of charge. That's what I'd ask them. Where were they at the time of their introduction when they favoured extraordinary studies in order to pay for them? Where are you now? These are the facts. I'm going to support this marriage the way it is, because I have to. Not because he called me my boss, but because I don't want to continue to do the wrongs to these 120,000 graduates, so I have to back up. These 120,000 graduates are not to blame for us, because we had some years in those days, even though we didn't make the decision, they weren't to blame if we experimented with them. That's why I'm going to say it again. You can laugh because I have to back up because I don't want to continue to do this 120,000. Of course, this law regulates, as I have already mentioned, things back. But, of course, there will be people who have not yet graduated and who will. And we need to compare them with those who graduated from these neighbouring universities that I mentioned. There is something else to acknowledge, however, that the new study after the bologna is one way or another coordinated across Europe. We have the same drawers, the same drawers and the same number. I don't see any problem there, and these students who are going to study after the new ones aren't going to be deprived of anything. Except, I don't think it's that we just have the feeling that if they're obviously going to have a recognised second grade, then those who have studied before should not have one. But well, that's speculation. I think the most misleading is precisely due to payability and the most misleading are those who have actually introduced a paying study, which is an extraordinary study. And that also needs to be made clear. For all this I will, of course, support this law once again. And I'm going to say it again because I have to because I don't want to deprive these 120,000 graduates, and there's going to be a few more. There will be a few more years, so there will be some more than 120 thousand of them, and they will not be deprived of the labour market, with those colleagues who may have studied in Celovac, Graz, at neighbouring universities. And if you want, even those in Bucharest, and Sofia, who will soon join us. In their countries, they will certainly adopt a system like that of most in Europe. We'd like to step out again. I think these experiments have been enough. Such a law should therefore be supported. Because these people who have graduated from the previous system are not guilty of this, and the Bologna graduates are not yet, they will, but they will be levelled in the European Union, no matter where they graduate. That way we don't see any problem there, and we're basically talking back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u278	Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you very much. In fact, I will continue or mention this wise conclusion from my colleague before me that those who will complete studies after the Bologna Declaration or Bologna System will be compared with the Bologna students. Thank God they will. This is, as I understand it, the essence of this law, or the alignment of our system with the European system. This is the essence of the Bologna system, so we have reformed to have equivalent study programmes throughout Europe. And Irgle's colleague told me that the law is very good to support it because the law is written in such a way that it retains the levels of education acquired for current graduates. Irgle's colleague, that's not true! I have clearly read to you several times this month, and I have sounded the last month that a government regulation on classification has been adopted, which does not maintain the levels so far. This is also the answer, this is a regulation, which was written in this law on the basis of a regulation. The regulation is a submarital act. And allow me, the Bologna rates are tied to the regulation: the first, the second, the third, the Bologna rate. Look at the classification, the classification. It's about degradation. That's what I said, and that's what I think right now. These are the facts. The Minister is looking at the ground because he has no strong arguments to answer my questions, Minister. It is therefore simply not possible to support such a law. I mentioned that about 50,000 students would be injured. And that's not fair, and I believe that's not the point of the Bologna system. It is unfair to go in such a way to degrade ourselves within Slovenia. While it is true that it is necessary and it is time to align Slovenian diplomats with European diplomats, but not to degrade graduates within Slovenia, this is not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u280	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you for your word, everyone. Thank you very much. I must say that it was indeed justified for me to wait a while because I wondered how this debate was actually going to take place. My fellow Members, although today is a full moon, this may explain one part of the debate here, but it does not excuse them in any way, because the matter before us today is extremely serious. I claim that it is very important for the whole of Slovenia or, as is often said, for the entire Slovenian nation, it is sometimes abused. We decide the fate of our former educated. One thing I'm going to say on purpose is a little bit easier than I intended to say, but it's because I want to discuss one part of the discussion that's already been going on. Today we do not really decide on the comparability of programmes between ourselves, today we decide on which job people, Slovenia, Slovenians, Slovenians who have completed university education, can then run on the European labour market. This problem transcends only our borders, as our domestic legislation will then be taken into account in Europe. The decision we will make will open or close the way to the labour market in Europe, as we call it scientifically. Now I'm just gonna say it at home. See, a lot of very incriminating words have already been said today to avoid giving sufficient weight to professional education in one case, and it has been overlooked that these things will in fact be dealt with precisely with by another act, not by law itself, this law governs only principles. All those classes you talked about are of course less important in this respect, because there is actually a mix of apples and pears here. Once the Bologna reform is fully implemented throughout Europe, only the first Bologna class, second or third, will be important. This will be a condition that you will have to meet on a public invitation to tender. And now what is the alternative to this law? Let's just say that today would be marriage, God forbid, rejected. You know, we can easily define it. There was only one alternative so far on paper. This is an alternative under which Dr. Gaber is signed and represents the 2004 LDS reform. What is the point of this reform, colleagues and colleagues, of those who have almost cried because of their professional education under the proposed law? I will read out: The education obtained through the university education programmes, the colleague and the colleague corresponds to the education received under the first-degree study programmes of this law. This is said, but what is really an alternative to good solutions, human solutions, the quality solutions offered by the now proposed law, is to push all-Slovenian education one step lower to the level of those who only have a three-year vocational school. But this is your alternative, which you actually have with a fig in your pocket all the time in the background? This is also the core of today’s story. I don't want to be personal, but I'm not going to use Gab's reform anymore, but I'm going to talk about the LDS proposal or the LDS degradation, because that would actually deserve the right expression of what I have in front of me. This LDS humiliation of all Slovenian education, university education, which is an alternative, if the law fails today, really means the LDS employment castration of Slovenian university students. I can't think of a better term. But I think this one makes it very clear what the point of this story is. And what interests were in favour of this LDS degradation? Yes, those who are also very presentable now. One part of the studenthood that would like to rid itself of all competition in the labour market in this way. Now imagine one university scholar, a university engineer who has completed all the conditions, all the exams, made a university degree, he has a title, he has a job, he has a certain number of years of work, suddenly on the European labour market he could no longer run for a job where a second Bologna level is required, which according to a domestically said university education. Anyone who could get a fresh start from college could run there. Yeah, awesome, one swing gets rid of all the competition. Is that nice? Surely such an interest is legitimate. Or he's ethical and legitimate, but we can have different opinions on that. Another interest that came together here in support of this LDS degradation was the fact that many computers with this, all who now have a university degree, will have to pay for obtaining a master's degree at the Bologna level. A lot of money was seen here. This interest is now much smaller in my opinion, because the new law, which is excellent and good, assumes that this will not go to the expense of an individual, but that the master's title after Bologna education is paid by the state's education, which is fair and comparable to the regulation that has been made so far. And then there's a third interest that's the least talked about, and it's probably the most decisive. Each time this topic opened, it was vehemently required that a master's title be given together after Bologna education and the scientific master's degree. Here you need to know that the Bologna Master's degree after homework means 4 years of study and one year of diploma. It's quite comparable to all the colleges we've been working with. However, the scientific master's degree was four years of study, a year for a diploma, two years of additional study, and a year, two years, or as much as anyone has spent on producing the scientific work of the Master's degree and its successful defence. It's kind of hard to get these two together if we're being honest. In my firm belief, these two don't belong together. And in the law now proposed by the Slovenian government, this is very clear. The Bologna Master’s degree in Bologna is second and scientific master’s degree is third. But here's a little problem. It was a public secret, and I've never personally checked it, but I believe that the journalists and journalists who talked about it know things very well. That one part of the university counted the cost of education for people to obtain a master's degree, and many said that he paid it with good faith to obtain the scientific title of Master's degree. But they got a Bologna Master's degree. If we were all together, then of course we wouldn't see it. Now it's gonna be broken. And if someone is really up to their noses, let us hope that it is not just one Ljubljana gossip, then there can be very interesting consequences, even to what kind of lawsuit, if it is not clear to someone what he is actually paying his precious money for. And all these interests were brought together in favour of the so-called LDS reform, or, as I said before, LDS's employment castration of Slovenian university students. He doesn't have all these mistakes. The new law is extremely fair and benevolent and opens to all who have, or who, if you like, have been educated in Slovenia so far on the wide door to Europe. We talked about a very unusual case a little while ago, and I'll tell him. According to data that are probably very correct if she does not have a specialist study of herself, if the previous LDS reform was adopted, Barbara Brezigar, for example, could not run in Europe for one of the leading lawyers because she has a university degree. A little comparison of what happens if education is humiliated. But it's more than 10,000, 100,000 people, for opinion leaders. I don't know who cooked this stuff or still cooks it with a fig in his pocket, and today he's making all sorts of arguments to hide this, he runs with very short legs. The old saying says that you can drag all people around for a short time so that you can drag an individual's nose indefinitely, and all people pull their noses all the time in the era of modern mass media simply can't get any more. And that's what my speech today was about. Of course, I will gladly vote for the law as it is, and for another, which would mean the degradation of Slovenian university students, I would never be prepared to press the button. Thank you, fellows.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u282	Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, all present on the balcony! Students don't believe in promises, students don't know what they're up to, we've been listening to that from the opposition today. They don't know if the studies will be free or not. Article 10 of the Act states that the State provides funding for the study activity for the first and second stages of the regular study. I don't know where there's anything else unclear. However, to put some students at a lower level, I will tell you an example that I had in my interview with a student who asked me why it was good for us to adopt this law, which is in college, and one year ago he was still at university. Because he didn't smell too good to study because he was promised to be in VII. the degree, even if he does college because he will get his degree sooner, because he will also be able to go to the Master's degree, this boy signed from university to college. Now he's wondering. And then I said, "If you really think it's the same, if you get the same knowledge, then why didn't you stay at university?" Why do you choose easier ways? He said that he felt strange too, but they promised him, and in this there is great irresponsibility of those who really deceived these students. But it's not the same university studies or college studies. Not in years, not in the amount of knowledge, not in the effort, but in what. But it's also hard to put five drawers, as someone said before me, into three empty holes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u284	Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Mr. Semolič, representative of the Council, colleagues and colleagues, and you who listen to us, say good bye! Personally, I do not think it was wise that, despite our peripeties, we have experienced the fact that the voting machine of the coalition has forced us to adopt this law by emergency procedure. In my opinion, this law is one of the key pillars, including the reforms we are implementing in this country, and it would be determined in public, professional and they, at least, necessary to harmonise their views in decision-making so that they can adopt this law in a normal procedure where they can peacefully discuss and face their arguments and accept these things. And so we have witnessed such arrogance. "My government", under the terms of the former, was arrogant. But what we are experiencing today in the fifth term, and this is the championship of arrogance. Look, dear fellows, what happened to the students? They're alive, they may have let someone down, but things are over, just like they are. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in front of us at the events under the protocol, the Rectors of Universities always sit, in the position and after all are before the Members, so the situation also gives them some credibility, and at least these people should listen to me, because those who bring the law on higher education to life. So, what happened? These Rectors wrote in their despair to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, President of the National Assembly, Mr Frances Tsukati, President of the State Council, Janez Sušnik. What they wrote - the Rector's Conference of Slovenian Universities monitored the creation of the new law on higher education. Universities, many of our members and individuals have submitted their proposals and comments to individual solutions, which have been specifically presented by the Rectors on the Committee of the National Higher Education Assembly. After the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, we have found that our proposals have not been taken into account. The procrastination veto adopted by the State Council on the amendment of the Higher Education Act offers the possibility of re-examined serious consideration of individual solutions that would benefit current and future generations of students and graduates. So once again, we ask the rectors to examine our views. For their further justification, interpretation and coordination, we are also prepared to contribute personally to the discussion with you and the experts of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. It's a humble letter. However, it appears from this letter that there is more pressure to deal with the professional or interested public in adopting legislation that will serve these people, and this is where we should find a common language. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the students have asked the Prime Minister, all the Rectors, here are signed: the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Andrej Kocijancič, the Rector of the University of Maribor, Prof. Dr. Ivan Rozman, the Rector of the University of Primorske, Prof. Dr. Lucija Čok - as a "travel to Canosso" ask the Prime Minister to accept them and then to discuss these matters. The other thing I'd like to say is this. We live in a market economy and in a market economy they are needed as the salt of reform so that such a market economy can be successful. I think the government has gone to the wrong ends of these reforms. What are we talking about? The reforms are mainly linked to the change in the tax system and to the social rights of certain categories. What should be at the heart of these reforms is science, technological progress and everything else, and in this area we are doing as we are doing here today: not with our hands in hand, but with one another and not with one another. I think, respected colleagues and colleagues, that if we had a legislative body, we should respect the opinion of the legislative-legal service, we did not respect it at the time of the adoption of the law, so they told us once again - and that is indeed what you said, Mr Minister. The legislative and legal service said that the allegations and demands of the State Council are largely very weak and are not justified in a legally relevant manner. Therefore, they continued to say,'so the allegations of a violation of the rule of law, the principles of trust in law and the principles of equality before the law are defined only as unfounded claims'. She said that, but no one said any further about what the legislature said, "but there is still the thought that neither the law on state administration nor the law on government allow any professional consultative body as a government authority to perform administrative tasks". And what does it say in marriage, ladies and gentlemen? The government is setting up a world for education. The Higher Education Council shall then appoint an Accreditation, Evaluation and Habitat Senate to decide on these matters. Let's say the evaluation board is calling an external evaluation committee. For example, the Habitat Senate forms a Habitat Commission, issues even election decisions in titles, gives consent to election in titles - all of this is done by a body within the Professional Council. The Ministry of Professional Organization and Administration for the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education - is responsible for the composition of the Ministry of Higher Education. Council for Higher Education, Senate and Authority within the Ministry of Higher Education. Although what the Legislative and Legal Service warns about, Article 20 of the Law on State Administration states precisely "to address professional issues in the administrative areas of the Ministry or to advise policy-making, the Minister may set up an expert council as his consultative body". I read again - "to address professional issues". And then it goes on to say, if you look at Article 7 of the Act, "the Senate takes a decision," let's say that it has given someone, elected, habilized a regular professor, and says, "In 15 days of the Senate's decision, an objection to the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education is possible." The Council of the Republic of Slovenia, as the body at this first stage of the complaint, will now decide on this. I think, Mr Minister and colleagues in the coalition, that the solution that was given as an agency was inappropriately cleaner, was adopted and that this solution here just points to this - this is my personal opinion - that it is written on the skin of exactly one person who takes a position here and perhaps has from such important decisions that are made in such a way and perhaps also of some benefit. That is why I am largely opposed to the adoption of the law in such a form. If we go first, I can still explain in this direction. See, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the previous term was under great pressure to harmonise our legislation in order to implement this legislation with European Union legislation, because it was necessary that we were adopted into the European Union on 1 May 2004, just before the elections. We have worked hard, we have worked hard in the field of the Higher Education Act, and we have built in the Higher Education Act a mechanism that compares our school system with other systems. In this law there is no minister, no government, no coalition has changed this system completely in the Bologna way when the transition from the first to the second and third stages. Nobody touched that! It'd be nice to leave the agency alone, but unfortunately that's not the case. However, as far as comparison is concerned, respected colleagues and colleagues, titles or addresses to others and through new study programmes, my opinion is as follows. If Slovenia were to really undertake reforms, then the market economy would first set up a national qualification framework, and it should be set up, you know - Mr Minister, you are not the answer, but another minister should do so. We should set this up so that we know who we need, what professions we will be educated for, and what challenges we will have for these professions. This is why the Liberal Democracy did not do so when it adopted this law on higher education just before the elections, and it would lead to solutions by first addressing the national framework of these qualifications, then by regulating the law between old and new names for these things, and then by the end of the regulation. Now the way is completely different, without any legal basis has been adopted on the government's regulation, now we are changing the law because the law is bigger if anything were contrary to that regulation, of course that regulation would be easy to change and move on. At least in Slovenia, which today, when a delegation from Germany was here, is the highest among those countries that came in, I would expect such a breakdown to be solved, not just by entanglement in this very serious segment of the party's ability to see what it has not done, but we do not have so much time, we would normally discuss these things in one normal procedure. Dear colleagues, people are afraid, you know! If I tell you, for example, if you look at - what I know - the pay system in the public sector, the first, the second - so the tariff classes that are here. These tariff classes, these are wage groups, the tariff classes are divided from one to nine. We are dealing with eight levels here, but you know, these levels are not overflowing, this minister is right, but he says: for the seventh tariff it is necessary for you to have higher education or university education. Now I ask you how many things should have been thought through before we adopted this thing in such an easy way in one article to say now when the Bologna way in which the tariff class will fall. Because if we have new education, this law will have to be corrected, just as it will have to fix all other laws from primary school to vocational education, high school and so on. There will have to be said now after the new, if we have three degrees, who will be able to teach in primary school, whether it will be just a professor or a mag. Professor, will everyone in all the schools be mag. Professors or how. And because of this, if you have a national qualification framework, these problems are solved, and that is not the case, and people are now afraid based on past experience. What has happened in the past? When I was young myself, I had primary teachers who had a high school degree. My successors already had teachers who had higher education. Your children have a high education. But remember, those who now have higher education and learn, if they go out of school for one day, must no longer do this job - they are running out! And when we try to implement the old legislation in this way, we will run into terrible problems, and so I would ask you nicely, let us not take such decisions on our necks, because our heads will still burn. Since you've been some sentimental, I'm gonna try to be sentimental, but I don't think that's sentimental, but it's the bitterness of the people who listen to us, looking at what we're doing. Today I got through the mail computer where - let Mrs. Marinka Lošinova resist me because I publicly mentioned her - writes: "Dear Mr. Mogue!" [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We got a lot of 'em, but I'm saying, you got one of 'em, one of 'em. "I am a single woman, at 48 years of age I signed up to upgrade my sixth degree with the seventh professional level, as offered by all the higher vocational schools for the 2005/2006 school year. In order to maintain my job, the director demanded the seventh degree, I had to give up my joint hours with my teens, take care of a healthy life, pay for my own $0.5 million SIT, all for the seventh, which is six again under the new law. I ask for your understanding of your against the law. Thank you. "The others who probably have university education send letters: support this law, it's for us, and now it's awesome, without it we'll get to it. But, colleagues and colleagues, we have not solved anything in this field of state. When we accept this, ministers will have a headache when they have to adopt sectoral legislation where they say that, and this job requires such and such education, and they will no longer be able to move up and down this thing that we will cement with this law. So I would ask you in my own name, let's sever our species, at least so far we can still, and let's try in one normal procedure to solve this problem. As much as it is in my power, I will try to help here, because we have only one country, and let us not adopt such a law that will cause us no problems in the future. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u286	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u287	The ores, the species are already shrinking, so don't give yourself the hope that it would be anything different than set up, so I also forgive myself if I can redeundantly repeat something that has been said many times before, but goes through the ears. But let me never use foreign words, in other words, as a speaker in this House today, because they are currently being followed by 16 000 313 signatories that I find on the website www.peticija.info, and 16 313 signatures, which account for about 20% of students and students in today's Slovenian society. Even websites that are full of thinking, perhaps for moments of much more sober, worrying and certainly not as demagogous as those that come from my right, are eloquent, and Mr Minister, they should give you a headache, and you will no doubt still be. The signatories say that they are withdrawing their comments into something that, in other words, speaks in the direction that we have also talked about in my types and types of other opposition, parties or statements that have been against this law. They say that, or today, to enact, for sure, the law withdraws the already acquired rights of diplomats without explanation and without reason - it is said that this is a public interest in this case - and thus violates the principle of the rule of law, which provides in Article 2 of the RS Constitution that we live in a legal and social state. This can, at least this claim may also have verifications that are possible in those places where these violations are examined. The law takes away the rights already acquired and the legitimate expectations of students who have enrolled in the new second degree study programmes, we have also heard about this today as part of the practical references to certain letters. The law interferes with already acquired legal relations and thus interferes with the principle of legal certainty, in the principle of trust in law, as the participants in the higher education study have no assurance that there will be no further interference with this legal state. And they say that the law violates the contract that was entered into at the time of the entry and determines what level of education the participants will receive when they complete the studies. The law also treats the same educational levels in an unequal way and treats different educational situations equally and thus violates the principles of non-discrimination and the principle of equality before the law. Fifthly, the equation of the levels of education of old and new degrees laid down in Article 15 of the Law is contrary to a series of nostration decisions on education obtained abroad. Six, the law is not in line with the main higher education partners, that is to say with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, with universities and with employers, nor with the Council of RS for Higher Education. Mr Minister, like your colleague Drobnic, you must have wanted to represent the students this time, as I say, Comrade Drobnic, who wants to represent the workers. It's a week. The law allows the introduction of long study programmes and thus prolongs studies and consequently prevents the 2004 reform of higher education, as it allows for surface renewal of study programmes, reduces the possibility of combining study areas and discourages students from entering new study programmes. Eight. By classifying old and new degrees, the law evaluates the first degree in law and thus forces students to continue their studies and consequently reduces the employability of first-graduate graduates. Come in. The law takes on the rights of students and employers already acquired as it reduces their role in the world of RS for higher education without reason and without justification. Come in. The law does not provide an independent, effective and functional external guarantee of the quality of higher education, as it leaves the quality of higher education mostly to higher education teachers appointed by the government, who will not deal with full-time workers with quality assurance, but will also be able to do so unprofessionally. Come in. It also violates international standards and criteria for an external quality assurance system, as it does not allow the independent, professional, efficient and transparent functioning of the RS Education Council and provides that the professional service of the RS Higher Education Council is within the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, leading to the politicisation of external quality control of higher education. And more. The law does not properly govern the area of financing higher education, as despite the ministry's promises of free first and second rate of Bologna, it allows for the introduction of tuition and leaves funding to the government regulation. As I have said, I have expressed the opinion of a number of thousands, 16,000 signatories to the petition, through which Mr Minister, a respected government, you see as disregarding worthy interlocutors, otherwise you would have entered into a dialogue with them at least if you were not with others.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u288	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u289	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! So, yesterday and today, we were able to hear a falsified statement by the Minister of Mags several times. Little thing, so once again, and how many times you're going to tell the truth, you're going to have to react. The Minister replied to this yesterday and said that this statement, which started with colleague Potrč, refers, for example, to the fact that trade unions will not want to represent workers; if trade unions do not want to represent workers in these proceedings. I ask you, then, if you say this in full, but not to take only one piece out of the context and wrap it up, and that is how you want to lower your rating to the Minister. That this procedure did not run long enough will also not hold; that was done by Minister Gaber in the previous term - it failed, you then opposed members of the coalition. Today, I can only congratulate the Minister on his willingness, nerves, courage, despite the veto of the State Council, that he has brought this law so far that today, or that we will be able to make another decision on it. This law should have been adopted a long time ago, because these procedures are ongoing because people are waiting for what is actually going to happen. Before that, colleague Uhan's pretty much explained a case, mag. Grimes was talking about another case. If it is confirmed that the students were misled and paid for the Master's degree, they will find that this is not actually a master's degree. If we were to adopt a national qualification framework - I agree with that; but it would still be the next thing: what would we do with what we already have. You say who will be able to teach in the new way - all those who teach now, because otherwise they cannot be! These people can't stay on the road! And that was also the issue of student organisations, for example, in our parliamentary group, because they said they were opposed. We asked them what would you do with your parents who have university degrees? Would you put them at the sixth bologna level and thus allow them to, I don't know, run for various European tenders? But there was no answer, they didn't know what to do with it then, but they only know that they would arrange for themselves so that for those who are studying now it would be well arranged, and of course we also have 120,130,000 university graduates to be placed in one of these three bologna stages. I think that this solution, which is before us, is good and I will also vote in favour of this solution as New Slovenia's Member. As far as the state council is concerned, this veto is written quite "over the thumb". This was also found by the legislative and legal service. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly considers that the indications and demands of the State Council are largely very weak and legally irrelevant. Thus, claims of a violation of the rule of law, the principles of trust in law and the principles of equality before the law are only defined as unfounded claims. As a member of the National Assembly, I would expect from the Council of State if this project had been undertaken, so that I would also act in such a way that the legislative and legal service would not have had the opportunity to write down any such statement. In addition, what I have been told by my colleague Shirca about the fact that the law takes the rights already acquired by students and employers and reduces their role in the world of RS for higher education; it is said that this service, the legislative and legal service, does not consider it to be an issue of acquired rights, since the legislator can autonomously determine or change the composition of the world. Now, if the legislative and legal service, in your opinion, is not relevant and this opinion means nothing, then of course you can continue to discuss in the way you have started, and it can also be said that this law does not guarantee that both rates will be free of charge; otherwise, as stated in the law, it cannot be written down. Now, of course, there may be some doubt about it, but as long as it's written in the law, that's the way it is. But if one ever changes the law, of course, it will be different, but today we decide on it. And to the end. That is what I would like to say to the present Mr Semolic, and I also welcome him here among us. You wrote that a consensus is needed between all the main partners. You know, as a union leader, you can see how difficult this is or you can list a few areas where you have reached a complete consensus. Obviously, also here because of the multitude of different interests of this perfect consensus that you are expecting, it is not possible to achieve. It is simply not possible to achieve, but in all such cases, where this is not possible, the Council of State is called as the highest legislative branch in this country; unfortunately, if it is right or wrong for everyone to decide in such cases as it thinks is best. I think this marriage is good, and I will, as I have supported it so far, support it today. And I'm not sure that we're going to do some injustice to those who have graduated from higher education or higher education because, as has been explained many times, one is Bologna levels and the other is educational levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u290	Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, a nice greeting to all present. As I have already pointed out in the introduction that in the LDS we welcome the opportunity to reconsider, I am personally pleased that we have the opportunity to re-examine and reflect on this law, although, in view of this debate, of course, this satisfaction is accompanied by great fear, because, in view of what I have said, there is no real hope that the debate will lead in this direction, that the law will be corrected and that, with its electoral mechanism, we will not vote harshly and arrogantly again, and that the law will not be determined by the power of the arguments, but by the argument of power, as we have already heard. We have before us a re-decision on the law on higher education, that is, the part of education that has the longest tradition of all institutions on our planet. So if I connect that institution with universities, which, of course, are also the most traditional and least exposed to rapid changes, on the other hand, with the law that was proposed as soon as possible in the procedure - I am sure that this is also the reason why we are discussing it again today - with the law that the proponents and the coalition want to bring down on a very very fast path through. Why? Perhaps so that there is less warning of irregularities that the law would be adopted so quickly as to achieve that goal with less collateral damage. On the one hand, I can understand the Minister, who has fully responded to the pressures of the other, in this government, the greatness in this area and has reacted in such a way as to prevent, on the one hand, this proposal and the classification of higher education graduates as the seventh level unnecessary additional and also unjustifiable on the one hand the enrichment of some, in particular the socio-humanistic orientations. Because with additional colleges, which, I fear, will become sales diplomas of other degrees and possible qualifications of current graduates, in particular on socio-humanist orientations, I stress because there is no real possibility in science and technology that private universities will be established due to high costs; therefore, to prevent this. And the higher education system that we have here is not the kind that we can meet and know, for example, in America, which has its system, but not only the higher education system, but because of such an undecided policy that we have in Slovenia, which is more or less all of the American copies - now I don't think specifically about just this area that is being imposed on us - there is no question of high school, university, college, whatever the already formulated tertiary level of education to complete, but ultimately it is important where someone graduated, because there is also a difference in tuition for factor 10 or more. We still have a degree in higher education related to ambitions, work and many study days and nights. As a result, we cannot accept this logic that, on the one hand, through the liberalisation of higher education institutions provided for by the law here, we achieve that who pays the tuition, with minimal effort then comes to education, and on the other hand, employers do not yet have the habit of asking the graduates which school he graduated from. And that's just one of the things I wanted to point out. I'm sure the bill has positive things, I've already mentioned one, which was the reaction of the Ministry. The second is - and I welcome it - funding for the first and second stages after the Bologna study, to the extent that the minister takes his dictatorship seriously. And I repeat that I see no reason why I should not, and I hope that this can also be explicitly confirmed in practice later, but many offenses have already been mentioned. The evaluation of the study, as set out, definitely means the continuation of policy involvement in the higher education and scientific research sphere. In the scientific research area, we have been able to meet policy involvement several months ago in the law governing this area, now, again, in the natural sciences, politics cannot tell whether the physical law will work in any way or not, whether the chemical compound of the two reagents will be such or different, but in the organisational and managerial fields, of course, this proposal for evaluation and the abolition of the world can also be understood as a direct involvement of politics in higher education and what is most important here, this means reducing the autonomy of universities. Reducing autonomy is the most important thing universities have and must preserve if we want these universities to be because of what they are, therefore, because of the students. Classification at different levels is one of the hottest topics and, of course, also the hottest bones. We have heard a lot about higher education diplomas, which are now ranked to the sixth level. We can also accept the interpretation that the levels and the old and the new are something completely different, that, of course, the old things were not regulated as they are now, but only the name and the number itself in which the level of something "pasha" is not important; it is important what competences and what employment opportunities the graduates of individual levels have and whether they will be able to run successfully for those jobs that they can run for so far in the future. And that's the essence of that question. I agree that even in classifying university diplomas so far, the seventh degree is more connected and the original sin of questions on behalf of second-degree degrees in "Bologna" which mix the master's title in the sense of the Master's degree in science and in the new sense of a profession that we - by the way, at least in pharmaceuticals - can be remembered - have so far. The third thing is certainly the mixing of professional and scientific titles. In particular, I am referring to the specialization of university education according to the old programme to the eighth level. Of course, there is also the power to find exceptions, which I take as something that is necessary, a rule. I agree that specialization in medicine is more of an eighth level than in the seventh level, but this is, as I say, only one exception, because this specialization lasts four years and more. Let's leave now, and I don't want to judge whether this specialization really has to take so long for professional reasons or is just an excuse for the cheap workforce of specialists. But I stress that the specialization in medicine is by no means equivalent to the other specializations that we now place in sub-level 8/1 in the same sub-level as the master's studies. Because once again, I stress, these are two different things. This was not least pointed out by the representatives of universities and, last but not least, by the habilitation requirements for the election to higher education titles and also by the assistant at universities of conditions - Master's degree. So I can't just now extend this matter to 8/1 level, because there are significantly different conditions and requirements. And let us be aware that this law is not a law on certain animals or plants, but this law has a key impact on people and it has a key impact on people, each with its own destiny, each with its own existence, which is also linked to its status, education and not the last address. And let us be aware that it affects both students: present and future, like former graduates, and there is no recipe with which to get 4 or 5 drawers into 3 in such a way that they do no harm. It is not easy, of course, because of this it is not the wisest decision to do such things forcefully, and, of course, we must try to find a solution that will, on the one hand, take into account and allow for safe employment for all graduates so far and, on the other hand, comparable employment opportunities for current students and will not, or devalue comparisons with others - and particularly important compared to abroad - their current education. And it is necessary to ensure the autonomy of the university so that the university can function on solid foundations that European universities have built over the centuries compared to the American universities on which they stand. For this reason, Minister, be brave and take advantage of the opportunity, and take the time to come up with a solution that will do as little damage as possible to the smallest circle of graduates and students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u292	Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Let me begin first by commending my colleague Slavinac, who made it clear what the advantages of this law and what dangers and traps would have been if we had followed Dr Gabra's thinking. I must say, I am glad that within the LDS there are healthy thoughts, too, there are very clear conclusions. And look -- it's not the only university teacher who thinks right. In today's Evening, the Faculty of Construction, Dr. Daniel Rebolj, wrote a letter to the referendum on education in response to student views. He says - I must say that it is normal today that everything has focused again on this comparison of educational levels, because here I agree that this matter was meant as the LDS alternative, that it was actually a conspiracy. And I think this LDS conspiracy is exposed today. It is also true that we have had a broad debate that, in some way, although we cannot absolutely agree with the obvious and arguments of the State Council and that the profession does not agree - not legally, not in any way - on the other hand, this opportunity is useful for us to clarify and point out before the Slovenian public what was envisaged, what a humiliation, what a degradation of Slovenian students and, on the other hand, as Dr. Slavinec said, some of the humanistic circles were counting on the sale of diplomas for other degrees. It's exposed today, and it's gone down. In fact, it was the last time that Dr. Gabra's LDS MPs, almost half of them, did not support it. But it's always important to be warned. And here today this gentleman warns the prodecan of the Faculty of Construction when he says - I will read a few sentences - when he compares the level of education. He says: "I am afraid that the representatives of the student organisation know very well that the direct timing of four years of current and five years of Bologna programmes due to different measurement methods is not correct. For some reason, however, they manipulate incorrect comparisons and deceive those who represent them. I would be even more surprised if the various measurements of the duration of the studies of old and new programmes were not known by former school minister Slavko Gaber." And then forwards: "If we measured the old university programs with the Bologna Metro, we would target five years, just like for the new first - and second-degree programmes together. I hope Dr. Slavko Gaber fits the students like that. It would be bad to manipulate political points with such a serious subject as education. Although it's true that it wouldn't be new, I'm sorry." And indeed in this area, some of these species, some of them from here and from there, were manipulated, very manipulated. I don't blame the students who would like to have a "concoout" or a student leader, the ones who would like to get rid of the competition in the labour market with the end out. However, as I pointed out earlier, this would not achieve anything. We would lower the educational level of Slovenia to some level of an African country and their diploma in such a swamp would be worthless. Look, I'm even more surprised at these manipulations, in fact, to the world of the state, that he fell for such things. That in the State Council, representatives of various interests and union leaders who should support this were actually obsessed with this and that those in Slovenia who are developing new products on which the economy is founded wanted to humiliate and degrade those teachers of primary and secondary schools who have educated all of Slovenia. Once again, this has come to light, this intention of the LDS from the previous reform. I would be politically very happy if they would continue to sign for the referendum. This is a waste of money out the window, but this referendum will be a clear political victory for us, who have prevented it together and adopted such a law. Go ahead with the referendum signatures! It's just, these 130 thousand people and many others, they're not going to be able to be blinded by those Flossules that were here in the debate, and these people, like [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the leaders will clearly decide the outcome of a possible referendum. [[...]] It seems even more strange to me that in this law and in the debates on this law, where it is clearly stated that both levels of pay by the state from the budget are scarred by schooling those who have introduced in the previous authorities this extraordinary study, which must be paid in a fat way, which is unethical, unfair, unfair to graduates, and because of the strange qualification mechanisms they cannot register regularly. This has totally disrupted Slovenian universities, a system of justice at universities. And today they're yelling about tuition, which, because of the service of money, they've introduced this extraordinary education, and I think it's a system of extraordinary students. Those who are normal students, who are normal graduates, must be enrolled in an extraordinary school, should be removed as soon as possible, equalized in rights. This, I think, is even unconstitutional, which we now have on the basis of this LDS policy, which is a government earlier. Now people are being fomented and intimidated and manipulated, as Dr. Rebolj says, which is also a prodecan for study matters, personally responsible for the renovation of the programmes, as he says, and now they are being intimidated about tuition. I just can't understand the level of some morality, the ethics here, that such manipulations in this space are allowed. And once again, these manipulations have been exposed, they won't work, and for that, I will absolutely support the law. I hope that, even after considering it, the representatives of the State Council probably realized that they had signed under some manipulation, under some of the supporters who were against the interests of the National Corps in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u294	Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder. Please. I'm sorry, it was a little long, Mr Jerovšek, so I forgot.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u295	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you also very much for your compliments, colleague Jerovska, but [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We have always represented a constructive opposition, which has gladly supported every good proposal, and so it has not been difficult for me to praise what is positive in this law. [[...]] However, if you remember, unfortunately most of the time in my debate was devoted to what I wanted to propose as a correction and a better change of this law, and I was obviously also misunderstood, so I decided to try to clarify the matter again. So, the conspiracy I was talking about was not between Dr. Zupan as Minister and Dr. Gabr as former Minister, but Zupan is visiting Dr. Jambrek, who is President of the Council, and who, in my opinion, comes from the SDS, owns the two previously mentioned shops, but not, at least I don't know any member of the LDS who owns any college or higher education institutions. And given that the president is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, the world - yes, and that certainly points to record customerism. And that made it even more important to me that I explained and that I would not be misunderstood, because we cannot and should not play with such an important law as the law on higher education, which crucially decides and influences our intellectual potential, i.e. those who have driven the development of economic and general Slovenia. And if we make mistakes here, they will know each other irreparably in all other areas for a long time to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u296	Mr. Mag. Capuder, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u297	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that the branches of the state council cannot be supported. I mentioned a number of reasons in my previous performance in front of a pay phone, and I would have stayed. The Council of State considers that the law assumes the rights of students and employers already acquired, as they reduce their role in the world of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education without reason or justification. In fact, in the world, experts in individual fields of study have a vast majority compared to other members of the world, and their mandate is longer. If we look at the composition of the Council in the current law, we can see that the Council for Higher Education in the current law counts as president plus 15 members, of which there are 7 experts, 3 students, 3 employees and employers and 3 government representatives. In the new Higher Education Council, which has extended powers, there are also 20 members in addition to the President. Of these there are 13 experts, one of them is an expert from a higher vocational school, 4 students, one more than before - and this is a student from a higher vocational school - and 3 representatives of employers and employees and no government representatives. This also suggests that such a composition in the world of higher education is likely to be much less political than the current composition of the world. In addition, we all want to have a professional council for higher education and that the State Council lets in that there are too many experts in this professional world, it is not understandable to me, I would be more than happy that this world for higher education is made up of as many experts as possible, because then we will get the best possible results. The second assertion of the State Council by which the veto is voted is that the law is in breach of international standards and criteria for an external quality assurance system, as it does not allow the independent professional and transparent functioning of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education and provides that the professional service of the Council of RS for Higher Education is within the Ministry of Higher Education of Science and Technology, which leads to the politically coloured external control of the quality of higher education. I would believe the Council of State if the Council of State came with proof that such a composition, as provided for in the law, did not meet the criteria of 'enka', would fully agree with them and might even support the veto of the State Council; but I have been assured from the Minister that such a composition, as proposed, provides all the criteria given by 'enka' to all the criteria. When we are talking about the professional service of the RS Higher Education Council, you may have read that this is an expert body within the Ministry. We know about the comparison of a similar professional body, which is also part of the Ministry and is called a metrology office. I don't know if any of us have ever wondered if this metrology office might be politically testing how much carat our gold is, but I'm curious. Why is a solution like an organ in the system good? In particular, because I feel that all the quota of persons who are intended for such an entity in the composition and who perform professional tasks for the higher education council can be said to be able to use all or most of this quota as experts. Experts who will carry out professional tasks under the mandate of the Higher Education Council. I am convinced that every professional service, if it is truly professional, is also independent and largely apolitical. In the professionality of employees who are employed by ministries, I never doubted. The last conclusion of the Council of State, or the last reason why it decided to vote on the procrastination veto, is that the law on amendments and additions to the law in higher education does not adequately govern the area of funding for higher education, since despite the promises of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology on a free first and second stage, it allows for the introduction of tuition and leaves funding to the government regulation. I must say that the final conclusion of the State Council, which is supposed to be one of the really important or one of the reasons for the veto, seems to me to be the least understood or least justified. And I'm fairly justified in asking myself if the representatives of the State Council have ever read a law or article 10 talking about tuition as I can read it. It is very clear from this Article that funding for the study activity for the first and second stages is provided in the national budget. I can't explain this to myself any different than the fact that the money is provided and that the study is free, otherwise I can't explain it to myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u298	Mr. Dusan Semolic, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u299	Dear Members and Members, the others are also invited, a nice greeting, thank you for your words, and welcome also to the distinguished Minister. Not an apology at first, but an explanation of why I was late, because this is very important for the honourable Member. I received a notice at 3 p.m. that you would discuss this law at 7 p.m. and asked me to come by at 7 p.m. At 5 p.m., I received a notice that in half an hour, you will be discussing this point. Since I was at the other end of Ljubljana, of course I could come here and that is the reason, not underestimation, so to speak. No, but it's right to say that because you've warned about it and you'd be justified with your warnings if it wasn't in the middle, so just for an explanation. Now, of course, on the subject itself, given the time available to me. According to the State Council, Bologna reform is needed, there is no doubt about it, and also a great opportunity for Slovenia to make the necessary changes. This is, of course, an extremely demanding professional project, at least hope must be as few mistakes as possible in the implementation of this project. We all know that the Council of State has made this clear in the debate that it is not easy to be the Minister of Education and run this project. Even in the State Council there was no doubt that, honourable Members and Members, when you adopted this law, you had an in-depth debate, no one on the part of the State Council questioned it. However, in the State Council, we were aware that it was a very important law that, in view of the warnings given to the Council of State, it was necessary, however, to exercise the right, the possibility that the Council of State had to draw the attention of the Council of State to the possible consequences, the possible drawback of any shortcomings, the possibility of a state assembly standing and listening to these warnings in the debate, and then, after careful consideration, of course, deciding as you decide. I will not make any further comments and give you a warning here. I don't think that's necessary because you've already heard these warnings in your debate. One you've attached, the other you've denied. But I am obliged, given the debate, to at least four warnings, but to warn. First about consensus, then how this law comes about. In the national world, we were convinced that there was a need to reach consensus in this law between those partners who are the main actors of this law, namely between students, universities, employers and the government. Of course, the path of consensus is a long way, not a shortcut. But we are confident that if you take advantage of consensus, you give some additional guarantee in the law that it is better, and it is not true that consensus means grading the role of the National Assembly or Parliament. In societies, particularly in northern Europe, where consensus is something normal and the standard of some democracy, including parliamentary, parliaments are stronger because of this. For this reason, we have not taken advantage of everything, in particular the willingness of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which is certainly a credible partner in this dialogue, in order to do more to make this law better and to take into account the conflicts of interest which are indisputably in this law. Area of financing. Here are two points when reading the same Article 73. It has been pointed out that this Article is not sufficient in this dictatorship, and it is indeed not enough that it is necessary to record in Article 77 that fees cannot be introduced at the first and second rates of the Bologna. A clear diction, which was unequivocal, and in this direction, a major warning is being given by the State Council. As far as the withdrawal of certain rights already acquired is concerned. He warned me more, I'll only stay with a few sentences at the part where he warns that graduates of higher education [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u300	Time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u301	I would simply ask, just this sentence, if you allow, on behalf of the State Council, that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Much has been said in this session, much has been said before, much has been said since 2004 and before. We discussed this, we talked about it in our bodies, and we also talked to students, with different people. Much has been said about the consensus, much has been said about the agreement. Allow me because there was so much to say to a swimming pool. Maybe things are clearer with bass. There was a centipede living in the forest, and -- as you know, the centipede had a hundred legs -- there were problems with it, because things were irritated, the shoes were irritated, the socks were irritated, the pants were irritated, the pants had a hundred holes, and on the other hand there were shoemakers living among the centipedes who made shoes, the stockers who made socks, and the tailors who made pants lived; and they were one for it to be very good, that they had a hundred feet, because of course they were selling hundreds of pairs and so on. Of course, certain centipedes were not satisfied with this because things were being irritated, they were looking, they were talking, they were discussing how things were supposed to work out for everyone to be happy and content. And then someone came up with the idea to go to an owl that's very smart, and they asked how they would do it. The owl says, it's very simple. Reach a consensus. He says the one, that's really smart, and he's moving on. Then after a while, he wonders how we should do it. He runs back and asks again how to do it. Well, that's your technical problem. And with this technical problem, I'm the one left. The problem is to reach consensus when there's something different here. And if I were to show you this case, I'd ask you how the matter was being considered. We have an undisputed Bologna system, 8 levels, this is a European recommendation, most of the countries we talked about decided to have eight levels of education. And for eight levels of education, three were set for tertiary education: eight, seven, and six. And in the eighth, if we go in line now, we have a high school education, but now I will count, not everything, but just a few higher educations that were discussed today: higher education, higher vocational education, university education, university bologna first degree, university diploma, university second bologna, master's degree, scientific master's degree and doctoral degree. All of these, we are discussing, are not knowledge programs, of course they are not the same, as is not the same machine technician or musician, but they can have university education. And now we have the problem of classifying this as a level. On the eighth level, there was no problem. The eighth-- the doctorate before, the doctorate now-- no change. The scientific master's degree went to level eight one, while the doctorate is at level eight two, there's a clear line, one is higher, the other is lower. Then the seventh degree came. The second bologna rate, it is quite clear that the second bologna level is going to the seventh level. We talked a lot, 130,000 are graduates of university graduates from Slovenia, about 10,000 new people each year. Until 2010, and after all the discussions, even in the opinion of the majority, even between you and the universities, to go to the level of the second level of Bologna, i.e. in the seventh class. Then comes the first Bologna level, which is in the sixth grade. The higher education she does not have is not equivalent to a university degree, and she also went to the sixth grade. Now comes the one most talked about, a high professional education. High professional education according to no criteria, under no criteria goes to a second bologna level. If we are talking about students now, the students in their negotiations, regardless of whether they agreed to our ranking in private, let's leave it at the side, then they denied it, they wanted the university diploma to come to the sixth level. It's true that the university comes to the sixth level. That's what they wanted. There would be, according to these estimates, 150,000 captured plus the 50,000 we're talking about right now. This is where we get to "high professional." In this respect, this population of high vocational education would compare this employment regulation, which they are currently employing, which states that it is VII. the level, although it can still be employed, this needs to be stressed. He's still in VII. The level of employment can be employed after the invitation to tender with a higher vocational school and there will be no change until, of course, the unions say anything. But there will be no change here. And this potential, not really changed, but the potential and only their level of education went to the level of the first Bologna level. That's all. And that's what we call a minimal problem or minimal damage. We're looking at what we said when we're doing some kind of consensus. We want to have minimal damage and now, whenever I ask, tell me a partition that would make less trouble, of course there was no answer, here is the problem and we did it after long discussions, after a long review here and there, so much about it. As far as I am concerned, I must say that Mr Mojet's speech has been weighty, in terms of this national framework of qualifications. Of course, it would be extremely nice if we had national qualification frameworks. Unfortunately, since 1980, no one has tried and tried and failed. I understand that this was not possible in 1992 and 1993, but then for 10 years the various commissions worked hard to do so, and there was no such fence. And so the statistics that were forced, then the statistics wanted to have a commission where they were experts and they were experts from our ministry, from the Ministry of Education, from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. All these three teams with statistics together have professionally defined a standard classification of education, which in some part will be the beginning of this national qualification framework, we have to start somewhere and we have started. This is what we did, and, of course, we leaned on it, and so did this marriage. I think that this is a good start, of course things can still change, normally, things will change in these events, they will be allocated, but why is it now necessary to accept this quickly; because, because students, when they still enroll in the old program and weigh whether they join new or old, will need to know what they will be and where they will be classified by their education, both old and new graduates. The sooner they know, the better. We receive dozens and dozens of requests every day when we have to include either foreigners in our system or in our other systems. And we must say this by law and it must be clearly stated in the law that everyone who is involved in this process who has been awarded a diploma has a clear knowledge of where his education belongs and of what level he belongs. We have done so, so it is important that we today accept this, that it is once clear. This has not been done since 2004, when it could have done so, but it has not been done for various reasons; it is not worth talking about now, but why. This was not done for two years and that was the case, but of course it is important now. Therefore, I ask the Members and Members of the National Assembly to accept this and to discuss it. Of course, it sets out, as we said, even more clearly that such a law as compromise with centipedes cannot be ideal, it is separate in the sense that seven, eight, nine, ten different educations that in three levels, always someone feels threatened, but here we have some other natural things, and these things are arranged as far as we think by our conscience, best of all possible. I would be very happy if anyone came up with a proposal that would be better, we think it is not there, and so I ask that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u304	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jelinčich. Anyone else please? It's a faucet. No more? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is also a Bologna principle that no one should lose his degree or education. This law, which we will be considering again today, introduces it. It's about degrading the 7th degree all-level, a little simplified, and I'm sure if we wanted to, we could find another solution. Mr Minister said that he was working towards a solution in the wider circle, and yet this circle was only within his coalition, I am sure, because despite the fact that we also had some solutions in the Slovenian National Party or at least some targeted solutions that could be debated and perhaps found a better mode than this, no one came forward and no one was interested. The fact is, it's really the fault of Gab's system. The undeniable fact is that Gaber and his case have screwed up to the point that everything needs to be resolved. But we can't save her in this way that we're going to hurt 50,000 or more people here. I do not agree with the minister to say that 50,000 people are a minimal problem, certainly not a minimal problem, it is a huge problem. If we compare that in time the Bulgarians, Slovaks and Romanians will come along with the Argentines with a significantly lower education, with some courses that will be evaluable in the home countries in accordance with the Bologna principle, of course, of Bologna, that these people will be able to meet certain jobs that our people will not be able to, we simply cannot agree and cannot support. When the minister was talking about the bass, the centipede. We do not agree to one option by which we will solve the problem of centipede in such a way that we amputate it 50 feet. This would, of course, save, save a lot, but still amputation is something, I would say, non-life, if nothing else; and therefore it would be necessary to find one mode by which the matter could be resolved in a substantially different way. I also think that the education that we have received in this way simply cannot be cut, this matter reminds us of those revolutionary times that we do not want to talk about today; and let's not do the same, let's find one option, are variants and that somehow implement them into this system, they certainly are. But it is true that these options cannot be found overnight and cannot be found in such a way that someone wants to impose his way of thinking. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly not support the law and we will not vote for this law to come to life, because it cannot live the non-life law, it cannot live something that will be taken away from someone, but despite the fact that you may have the right issues, it is not possible to cut and cut it. Once again, with the amputation of the feet of the centipede, if we cut off their 50 legs, we solved the problem to some extent, if we cut the centipede's legs off, it's like cutting off her head, and I'm not up for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u306	Mr. Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I was encouraged by the debate by the opinion of the distinguished minister, who said that nothing would change in the invitation to tender in the future. But now, when we look at the tenders, we see that a particular job is required for the 6th degree of education, then for the 7th level, usually for the 8th grade, or for the 8th grade. Now I'm wondering if it will then require a 6-2 level of education, whether it will be required or, I'm sorry, the level of education under the new classification or Grade 7. Do we have any guarantee that even in future employers will be those who are on the open market possible, which is more important to them the competence and knowledge that some of their future employees have, but at the country level - not least it is one of the largest employers, the state administration. Will it be true that those who are now highly skilled can apply to the same jobs in the future, so they will apply to the same jobs. From the outset, I said that it doesn't matter what level it is, but what it means in practice. The second thing is again about specialisation, and I said earlier, and also on the Committee, if level 6 is divided into two levels, I would also divide 7 into two, and this problem would be solved, and then even at level 8 it would be more meaningful to grade 8-1 or 8-2. But of course there's one possibility that instead of 6-2, you say that this is 6.5. We know that the numbers for the decimal commas that have a five are rounded up and then this problem is easily solved so that those who have 6.5 can apply to calls where required by 7, if this is the case; and equally, of course, even without major problems, get the specialization to 7.5. I see that this would be very 'acceptable' that we do not have, or I don't know if you will take the time for one of the possible changes and corrections, and such have been said before, so once again the appeal and the call to take advantage of the opportunity to be given by the State Council, and let us try this law, which is so crucial and so important, to really do so by doing as little damage as possible, because we see that there are plenty of those who disagree with it, who have observations on it as opposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u308	I'm closing the debate. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 9 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down. We are continuing with the meeting of the National Assembly and are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, to the question of mags. Majde Potrat related to the proposal for a new rules on the validation of textbooks. You want an explanation of the voice? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u310	Thank you. I proposed that the National Assembly should hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Education and Sport to my question of the Member State, which is the continuation of the two-time written question of the Member State and is indeed focusing on the validation of textbooks and the exemption of work volumes from certification. The question is narrow - minded, but it is also related to other problems that we have been following in school lately. This is about amendments to school legislation, which I believe are not based on appropriate professional grounds, and the Minister of Education has not rejected me in this assumption. But given that he did not answer that question, I do not think there are really any appropriate professional grounds for such conduct. Since the quality of learning depends in many ways on the use of teaching aids and teaching aids, and especially on a good teacher, I would expect the Minister of Education and Sport to insure his area and employees in such a way as to give them as much support as possible in professional decisions. However, for decisions on work volumes as well as on textbooks, it shows that there is no such support. I therefore propose that a general debate be held on this issue, which is also related to achieving the success of students in school and a later career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u311	Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Janez Drobnič, on the question of Parliamentary Affairs, Mirana Runs with regard to cooperation with the social partners when preparing amendments to the Labour Relations Act. Mr. Runt, explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Yesterday, I quoted the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Janez Drobnič, as saying that he would represent the workers alone in the event of amendments to the Labour Relations Act in the extreme case. Mr Drobnic did not deny this statement, but confirmed it in his reply. I think it is a question on which the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs should know who the social partners are and who the individual social partners can represent and that, given that such statements are made and are not denied by them, it is appropriate that at least the State Assembly should determine in the debate what the social partnership is, who, in the context of this social partnership, has any competence and that Minister Drobnic can't adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We will not support this proposal from our fellow Member, Mr Potsch. I must say that the Minister answered that once again yesterday, we estimate that it is more provocative than a serious question, namely, he repeated his statement once again. However, the statement was in this direction if the unions in this social dialogue do not want to represent the workers so that they can represent the workers themselves. He repeated this twice, but colleagues from SD are dropping this first part, where the minister says, unless the unions want to do this work. In view of what we saw on TV last night with regard to Peka workers, where unions want to have one part of their rights themselves, the question is, of course, what is the role of trade unions in the protection of labour rights in the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, we also understand this Minister's statement, but we hope that the unions will change their minds and that this function, given by law and also by our constitutional arrangements, will continue to be exercised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u315	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Mr Dušana Kumra's proposal will allow the assembly to decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to Dušan Kumra's question on the additional earnings of the officials. Mr. Kumer, please. I would ask you to tell each time, either on your behalf or on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u316	On behalf of the Member of Parliament, in case there's a situation that I have to do something else. Those who were present in the Chamber yesterday, when the questions were sent, you could see that the Minister, I am appointing him as a savings minister or a treasurer of government money, answered me 4 questions, 3 he did not answer me 3 questions, 4 he did not answer in half, he was ineligible and with incorrect data, so I simply suggest that you support this proposal to give the Minister another opportunity and to give us a more precise explanation of the strategy of saving, abolishing privileges and so on within the state administration between officials and other employees. Because, last but not least, you will be adopting legislation together, and then nothing will help if we worry and have figs in our pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u317	Thank you. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Juret Zupan, to the question of the question of the question of the question of Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system for education and training." We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 50. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Following a proposal from Ambassador Ljuba Germić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, to the question of the question of the question of the question of admission to secondary schools by Ljuba Germić." Mr. Germich, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u318	Thank you very much. So, with the amendment of the primary school law last year, we have defined national knowledge tests so that they were no longer criteria for enrolment in secondary schools. Experts have warned of a lack of prudence and incomplete action, and difficulties have been identified in this year's entry into secondary school. Unwitting enrollment conditions have brought confusion, uncertainty and fear into the school system. The reason for this was the late adoption of the criteria in the school year last year, which did not happen until July. Schools had to draw up their rules at the end of last year's holidays in a very short time and identify those activities which, at the school's success and at the evaluation of the subjects, bring points. The school’s selection of achievements did not provide equal opportunities for all students. Thus, a combination of the right degree of speculation, whose high schools will have a higher entry point threshold, was needed to enter the most desirable high school. Critics of weighting were also very loud, for which it was initially estimated that they would be only occasional or very minor criteria, and it was shown that this criterion was actually implemented in 90% of schools with restrictions on admission. As we are in a similar situation today, so we do not have the criteria for entering the next generation of nine-year-olds, of course, it is necessary to discuss this in the national assembly, and of course I ask that you, colleagues and colleagues support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u319	Thank you. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Gantar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the reply of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question by Dr Paul Gantar concerning the public call for public telephone services. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u320	Thank you. On behalf of the Member's Club. However, a few words have to be said because there was a very interesting debate yesterday between me and the Minister, Mr Virant, on the subject of this call for proposals. For those who were not present, it is necessary to know that this invitation to tender has brought for telephone calls to the mobile public administration network at Mobitel that the tariff is 2.78 tolar per minute. The average telephone fare is very different, in the usual mobile network is between 22 and 25, 27 tolars, depending on how you take these things. So this price is about ten times lower. An excellent achievement for public administration, we could say, although this tariff is actually a tariff offered by Mobil to all major business users and with a larger business user starting with two orders and more, this story is also said to be slightly different. But what you need to know is that with such a low-cost telephone price, something happens that is evident to everyone that other ordinary users who do not have any business users, I don't know, old moms, your wives, if you want, or anyone, kids, will have to pay higher prices because no Mobile or Simmobil data transfer data will not lower their profits, but they are even committed to increasing it. And now I'm asking you whether that's fair and fair, which was a lot of talk, so we can make a phone call for 2.80 tolars, and others will have to make a phone call for 10 times the price; and it'll probably increase just because we can make such cheap calls, and even for 15 tolars, you'll be able to make phone calls to other networks and other mobile phone users. This is a question that is ethically controversial, but not only that, it is also inconsistent with the Law on Electronic Communications, which prevents the granting of unjustifiablely high benefits to one user or favouring one user. Quantity discounts are possible, permissible, allowed, but not in the tenfold, but 20, 30%. This is "unfair" and I think it is necessary to hold a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u321	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An interesting promotion for a young man by the former Minister for the Information Society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u323	Voice explanation, not controversy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u324	I began to explain in the introduction how I would vote. I will vote, in fact, I will be in the dilemma of how to vote, perhaps even voting in favour, because this interesting theory developed by Mr Gantar at this moment might even show the real face of all of this in this debate. However, I do not know if this National Assembly is a suitable place to discuss such an important topic that has been taking place in Slovenia for 10 to 12 years, and in some ways what colleague Gantar is saying could be prevented by previous governments or by him as a minister with the actual introduction of competition in this area. Of course, this competition is significantly more important than 130 000 or, in this case, significantly fewer civil servants who will use the so-called price of services obtained in the tender. It is ignored, however, that all so far the state administration has not had the price offered by mobile operators to business users, since the state administration is probably the largest business user in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u325	Thank you. I'm still asking if we can just hold back the argument in explanation of vote. Mr. Gantar, do you want an explanation of your vote on your behalf? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u326	Mr President and colleagues, it will not surprise you that I will support my decision which I have proposed. I would just like to say this, this way, as this call was concluded, unfortunately does not lead to increased competition, for which we fought very hard, and this was a rather difficult business, because Simobil is excluded from the phone and is only allowed to transfer data and Mobile is excluded from data transmission, although it has more modern technology and can only use voice technology. That seems fair and right, although both operators seem to have accepted the fact that they won't complain. It is therefore right to hold this debate here. Of course, I will also call on the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency and the Competition Protection Office to comment on the parameters of this call. By the way, the public administration has already been operating on tariffs for large users, but these tariffs have been slightly different than they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u327	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection. Targeton, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u328	Thank you, Mr. President. So it seemed to me now to make my procedural proposal, because we were just voting on when a matter should be debated or not. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to amend the order of the examination of each item, or the specific point of the amendment of the Law on Kobilina Lipica, which is in the order of tomorrow, at the end of the consideration of the other items. If I may, Mr President, I would like to make an explanation for my procedural decision. So, the fate and agenda of this National Assembly wanted that the funeral ceremony for the mayors of the municipality of Divac and the recent director of Kobilarna Lipica was also at the time of this point. So some of us would also like to attend funeral ceremonies, and I think it is appropriate, pathetic and respectful to deal with this later when these funeral ceremonies are held for the recent director, as I said. My proposal can be supplemented by this, Mr President, if it is possible that this point could be placed at the hearing immediately on Thursday, and that the point on Thursday, which coincides with this point in time, is one of three hours 45, the other of three hours 25, I think that something like this will change the order and thus satisfy my proposal. Please, let's talk about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u329	Mr Terčon, I ask you to prepare the proposal in writing and in the end, after the vote, I will also put your proposal to the vote. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, with two amendments to Article 2. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members present and 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. In doing so, he became an amendment under number two irrelevant. Sorry, wrong. If this amendment had been adopted, it would have been irrelevant under number 2. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 44. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the amendments to Article 23. Here we have nine amendments from different parliamentary groups. Some of them are connected. We are moving on to a decision on amendment number 1 of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Article 23. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 83 were present, with 35 votes against 47. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on amendment No. 2 of the Social Democrats Group to Article 23. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 84 were present, with 36 votes against 46. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment number 3 of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group to Article 23. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 82 were present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment number 4 of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group to Article 23. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 5 and 7 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment number 5 of the Social Democrats Group to Article 23. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 6 and 7 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 49. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment number 6 of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment number 7 of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party to Article 23. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 13. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on amendment No. 8 of the Social Democrats Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment number 9 of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to Article 30 and to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and on the substantive equivalent amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Group to Article 30. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the billmaker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u330	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third review of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection be carried out at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u331	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter therefore proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. There are 84 Members present and 52 votes against 32. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. That the proposed decision is not adopted. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats Group. Mrs. Potrata, explanation for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u332	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will support the amendment before you, because this amendment agrees with the Ministry of Education and Sport. It shall also begin by agreeing with the Minister or Minister responsible for education that part of the educational programme may also be carried out in a foreign language and by adding additional conditions under which part of the subject or programme may be carried out in a foreign language, an additional teacher for pupils, so as to have instruction in Slovenian and a check in Slovenian. It is not limited to international exchange of students, nor to the limited movement of qualified, recognised foreign experts, but also to the constitutional right of our pupils to learn in Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u333	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 4. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. I give my word to the billmaker, Dr. Beast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u334	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members and Members. In accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose that the next hearing be considered, the third hearing is held at the same meeting due to the fact that the second hearing was held unanimously, and we have also just adopted the only amendment, so that I think that the business conditions are appropriate, positive for the third hearing to be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u335	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter therefore proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal and the decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 2. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Thursday, 13 July 2006, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on religious freedom. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the 27th Article of the Act. Mr. Rope, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u336	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we have prepared an amendment to the 27th Article of the Religious Freedom Act, and we have spent quite some time this afternoon discussing this law, this amendment. So, before deciding on the amendment here, I would like to make it clear that we have prepared this amendment in the parliamentary club for only one purpose, and the basic purpose is to present and propose to the coalition, to all Members and Members a model that is better, which is more suitable for financing religious communities, in order to stress that the adoption of the law on religious freedom is an opportunity, in particular for the coalition, to adopt a solution that would be good in the long term and would comprehensively solve the problem of financing religious communities. I regret, of course, that very little time and space has been devoted to substantive discussion and to the proposal, to what we really propose, that most of the time has been spent mainly on discussing here today and hearing discussions about what we have in the background and why we have proposed what we have proposed in this amendment. The words and the thesis and the assertions that we proposed this because of our desire to fight culturally are ridiculous, they do not. They also do not, because we have summarised the Italian-Spanish model, i.e. the model of countries which are known to be favoured in solving the problem of religious communities, countries where, in particular, the most powerful religious community is well addressed. So far from wanting it. And that is what we want to stress again. We are proposing solutions that mean that each individual, every citizen and citizen should decide for themselves how much and where his part of the income tax should be allocated. We are proposing solutions that represent a significantly more equal position for all religious communities, solutions that definitely do not constitute an additional tax burden. Solutions that do not mean financing of religious communities by the budget, i.e. state funding. Undoubtedly, we are convinced that these are solutions which, unlike this proposal before us, are not constitutionally controversial and, above all, also solutions, some of which have also been identified by you in the coalition, solutions that are more favourable to religious communities than those proposed. I'm sure that's enough or there should be enough arguments for this amendment to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u338	On behalf of the Group of Members. When deciding how to vote on the amendment, the Members of the Slovenian National Party led mainly two arguments or two bases. Finally, it is also the basis of the National Party's work programme, for the first time that faith is a free thing for each individual, that it should not be imposed on him as a result of the fact that financing is also dependent on it, and for the second time, that is respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the separation between the State and the Church. The drafter of the basic law does not seek to be separate. And the fact is, the amendment, in this case, of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy, will not be accepted, of course funding from year to year will increase on the basis of the tax revenue. Last but not least, the budget consists of more than 93% of tax revenue. However, I would like to mention from this point of view that, despite the fact that we will support the amendment of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy, this does not fully follow, I stress that it does not fully follow the constitutional provisions on separation. The National Assembly had the opportunity to follow the Constitution in this work, when it met with a proposal from the National Party that spoke about the so-called contribution, a church contribution that would be in the exclusive domain to decide whether or not people would pay it. If people chose not to pay for it, the story of financing religious communities for them ends here and no one would be obliged to settle that amount. But as we say, you've made a different decision, you've decided that you're going to co-finance insurance in the coming year. Unfortunately, the decision was not in favour or amendment by the Slovenian National Party. Therefore, as part of the solution to the improvement of bad law, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament offers, and that is why we will also support it. However, we cannot agree with the only and several times-exposed argument in the debate that it is the law itself and that funding is comparable to European regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who have carried out such defences should remind you that the right of each national state to regulate the system of financing of religious communities and the system set out in the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia is much more appropriate than in the framework of the government proposal, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u339	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u340	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment because it at least partially fixes all those things that do not speak in favour of the country's separation from the religious communities. The law is written in such a way as to bring the country and the religious community together too closely, while at the same time placing small religious communities in a very unequal position. The amendment, as proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, has another quality at the start of the religious community, namely the quality of a free decision. Any taxpayer, whether a member of this or one of the religious communities or of any of the religious communities, will have the opportunity to devote part of his already paid income to any of the religious communities. So it doesn't have to be yours. He'll do it every year or he won't. Thus, he will be free and, of course, also responsible for his decision. This, of course, also eliminates any number of believers of this or that religious community. So there'll be no counting and there won't be a possibility of any reading. The original article of the government proposal will have to be counted because they are numerical restrictions. That's why I think this amendment is worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u341	Thank you. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 33. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Thursday, 13 July 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - by re-decision on changes and additions to the Higher Education Act. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 84 Members present and 47 votes against 32. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lovemaking in the National Assembly. At its 18th meeting, on 22 June 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving to the third reading of the proposal for a law, namely to decide on the law. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 80(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, that is 60 or more Members. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 7. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. A procedural proposal, namely Mr Terčon, has drawn up the following procedural proposal, namely: I propose that the 16th item of the agenda be considered tomorrow, a bill on amendments and additions to the law on cobala Lipica, which the National Assembly is scheduled to consider in accordance with the 19th regular meeting, on Wednesday, 12.7.2006, at the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly on Thursday 13.7 at 9 a.m. when the National Assembly is to consider a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on police. Allow me to say this in my own words, namely, the proposal is that the Police Act be considered tomorrow as the final item of the agenda and the Kobile Lipica Act at 9 a.m. on Thursday. We are voting on such a procedural proposal. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 81 votes against 0. [[The vote was 81.]] [[Against 0.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. With this adjournment of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
