ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that you are detained and cannot attend today's meeting, Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Mr Mitja Slavinec. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the summer of 2006, with the Report on the situation in the European Union and the position of the Republic of Slovenia in it in the summer of 2005. Before giving the floor to the Prime Minister, I would like to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to increase the time for the opening presentation of the proposalr from 30 minutes to 45 minutes, while reducing the time for discussion from 60 minutes to 45 minutes. I hope you agree with that. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the proposed declaration. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues of the Government! Today on the agenda of the National Assembly is an important topic, perhaps more important than we are aware of it, given the relatively dry title - the statement of guidelines and so on. Usually, something very attractive is not hidden under such titles, but this time it seems to me that it is a very important topic for several reasons. In this introduction, I will try to further substantiate this. Allow me to say that, given that it is quite a detail in the text itself, what we consider to be the key directions for Slovenia's functioning in the institutions of the European Union and that it probably does not make sense to repeat this in a long and broad way - if there are any dilemmas, we will do so later when we explain it in specific areas. By allowing me to try to give a more general picture of the situation in which the European Union is located today, the situation of Slovenia within this picture, and I am also trying to point out the opportunities offered for us in this situation. For the current situation in which the European Union is located, we could say that the following are significant. Firstly, the institutional crisis, which is relatively serious following the rejection of the ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty. Secondly, the current situation in which the European Union is located is characterised by the fact that the institutions of the Union are still operating, that there is no blockade, that once agreement has been reached on the next financial perspective, it has become clear that the institutional crisis will not develop into a general crisis that will undermine the functioning of the European Union. It is precisely this step that the Union has shown that it can be effective when dealing with current issues in the enlarged configuration. For the current situation of the European Union, there are also dilemmas in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, which we are practically renovating at least partially every year, and this year we can say for the first time that, after a long time, years of relative stagnation, including the decline in economic growth, we are recording positive trends and, on the basis of these trends, the recently concluded European Council, the European Summit has also expressed more optimistic expectations about the millions of new jobs that can be created in the coming period and also in terms of overall economic growth. At this point, the European Union is also facing some of the issues related to the functioning of the single market because of the above-mentioned issues. The ambitions that existed here to extend this market to free movement of services have greatly decreased since the European Parliament first completed reading of the Services Directive and these initial ambitions by practically igniting the approach in terms of taking account of the country of destination rather than of the country of origin in service providers has significantly reduced. We also face the dilemma of the Single Market in the field of energy, because there have also been partial steps in the last European Council, although the decision on the liberalisation of the energy market in the European Union has already been taken in 2002 and it is now only for the commitments made to be realised. And the current situation in which the European Union is located is also characterised by the dilemmas related to the further enlargement of this European Union, at this time there is no general agreement on any further steps. The decisions to start negotiations with Croatia and Turkey have already been made with a number of dilemmas, and today there are no uniform interpretations of some of the formulations adopted by the European Council when it adopted both decisions. For steps that need to be taken further in order for the situation as it is to move in a productive direction, it is necessary to make some important or important decisions that can only be followed in the right order. Before I say anything about this sequence, it is necessary to be a little more hasty about the causes that have led to the current situation, particularly the present institutional crisis, as expressed in the deadlock, this is the ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty. The European Constitutional Treaty was launched in order to ensure the effective functioning of the European Union in new situations, mainly caused by historical expansion after the fall of the Berlin Wall, as well as in situations where the world is increasingly global, when the overall and economic competitiveness at this level is exacerbated and when the European Union can only be successful if it is more integrated and externally acting in a uniform manner. However, this process of preparation and subsequent ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty coincided with some phenomena which had a strong impact on public opinion mainly in the Member States of the European Union or in the vast number of EU countries 15. First of all, the effects of globalisation have already been mentioned. These impacts directly endangered jobs in traditional industries, in the European Union countries, and there was some general uncertainty and fear for their own jobs, which slowly grew into, say, a sense of uncertainty that had an important impact on the conduct of individuals even when it came to voting on the European Constitutional Treaty. Then came the enlargement, which has been treated differently in countries that have entered the Union and in countries that have already been there, or citizens of the founding Member States of the European Union, and also some others have a different attitude towards the European Union, which is understandable. They are born in this space, in a space of freedom, prosperity, relatively great opportunities, high standards, protection of human rights. To them, this space is largely self-evident. In the countries or countries where we have recently joined the European Union, this is not the case. Therefore, it was also necessary to decide, not least at the referendum. The attitude towards the Union is much more emotional than self-evident, and this is a strategic breakthrough in terms of views, and it is not a coincidence that the blockade or rejection of the European Constitutional Treaty in the two countries that are the founding members of the European Union, France and the Netherlands, where these fears, caused first by negative effects or the alleged negative effects of globalisation, have been built up with the fears of people in these countries before the loss of their jobs, which would be threatened by the valuable labour force that will now come from Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia, in short, from the east and with the sense that the European Union, with these new powers it receives through the European Constitutional Treaty, does not constitute any mechanism to protect this situation, this situation or this prosperity, but rather a threat earlier. This feeling was also accompanied by fears caused by terrorist attacks in London, earlier in Madrid, with political killings, with specific motives in the Netherlands, with social unrest mainly in the emigrant communities in France and so on. This all created a new atmosphere that covered optimism that prevailed in Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall, after some old, long-standing borders and barriers fell. This situation has had an important impact on the decision of individuals invited to a referendum to vote on whether the EU should for the first time in history be given its constitution or constitutional treaty. In these votes, particularly in France, in the Netherlands, which were negative, it would probably be negative in another country if this series of referendums were followed as planned. The votes against were not so conditioned by the dissatisfaction with the text on which it was voted, or by the institutions on the basis of this text, but rather by the fears I have been talking about, because security is a key asset for people living in freedom. Then there's prosperity, prosperity, and so on. And when people feel that their safety is threatened, they react by rejecting decisions that they feel will not increase or deepen their integrity. And from the EU, as some supranational institutions, most voters in the Netherlands or France simply did not expect a solution, but rather a deepening of the problem. This is why, in order to overcome this blockade and this institutional crisis, it is most important to restore confidence in the EU, especially where it is most threatened or shaken. And this is mostly not the new Member States, but it is the founding members of the EU who, for various reasons that I will not mention, also have a specific weight slightly different, and it is clear that there will be no further steps without movement at this point. In order to restore this confidence, it is very important that the EU ensure further growth, the creation of new jobs, all that creates a general sense of social security and general security. It is important that the European Union effectively tackles illegal immigration, and it is no coincidence that so much space is devoted to it. Only after this trust has been restored can new solutions be sought or the procedures for ratifying the European Constitutional Treaty, which have now come to an end. I firmly believe that it is not possible to do this this year or at the next European summit, even though there will be a debate on this at that time. Earlier, it is necessary to provide some general conditions for this movement to occur in thoughtfulness and that people will actually feel safe again and that they will trust that, by giving new power to European institutions, they do not increase risks, but that these risks are lower. It is also very important that a positive approach to the general trends of globalisation, which are not only a threat, is also a new challenge. Globalisation also offers many new opportunities, and the European Union can take advantage of them for the common good, including for the common good of all citizens of the Member States, by addressing these challenges in order to make them more competitive in this field and thus, in the end, to mitigate the negative effects of globalisation. So the first step that it takes to make this situation move faster in a positive direction is to restore trust. Restoring confidence is only possible if economic growth increases if new jobs are created, if young people are able to get to life opportunities faster than on average today; if the European Union is able to significantly better and more quickly organise the transfer of good practices from those Member States where things work, to those countries where they face dilemmas in different areas. Well, next step, in third place. Once we have regained confidence and made some institutional moves, the next step may be further expansion. There will be no major further enlargement of the European Union until this institutional crisis is resolved. In this situation in which the European Union is located, Slovenia, as one of the 25, is in short one of the 27 members. The macroeconomic figures show that Slovenia is in a good position. We meet the very strict conditions laid down by the Stability and Growth Pact. Since November last year, we have also met the conditions for entry into the European Monetary Union. By the end of March 2006, we are the only candidate for entry into the euro area that actually meets all the conditions, the big question being Estonia, as one of the candidates, has already given up this ambition for the following year, the big question is whether Lithuania will be able to reverse the negative inflation trends it has now. In short, Slovenia can be satisfied here, in these comparisons. We can really expect to meet the conditions for entry into the Schengen area next year in October, which will mean that Slovenia is the thirteenth Member State to join this more integrated internal circle of the European Union. This is very important. With these steps, Slovenia will somehow step out now, in order to meet the conditions, when they are actually made, also completely formal Slovenia will somehow withdraw from its current status when one of the ten new members joins, let's say, this internal, more integrated core of the European Union and, of course, this brings new opportunities. Some are themselves when we go to the euro area, to the Schengen area, and others are, of course, conditional that we can take advantage of if we are well prepared for them and can be largely delayed if we do not. The fact is that Slovenia, with the current level of development, is more than 80% of the European Union's average development, is also above some of the old Member States. By maintaining some internal stability, some continuity of economic and social development, in order to successfully modernise within the framework of economic and social reforms, we can substantially upgrade these trends. It is very important that we also establish ourselves as a 100% legal state, according to the household. Here our main problem is the many judicial backlogs that cast a bad shadow on this position of ours. This must be taken seriously, with the opportunity we are given on this basis in 2008 when Slovenia, as the first new member, will preside over the European Union, we can round this positive picture very nicely. And after 2008, we can actually cross, both by numerical indicators and by some general image from the news circle to the circle of established members of the European Union, as a country that is capable not only of providing some continuous, positive development for its own citizens, but is also able to generate good practices for other Member States. At the end, I would stress the fact that, because of such a development, because we do not have any problems with the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact, nor with the criteria for entry into the European Monetary Union, I hope that the same assessment will be made for the entry into Schengen next year. This makes Slovenia a positive example in the EU today, which the EU needs very much. It is precisely because of the state of some broken trust, because of the fear that many employees in the EU's founding Member States will be threatened by workers who are willing to work for half or for a third of their salary, as well as by the other feelings of some fear of the uncertainty that enlargement and the enlarged EU are supposed to bring. As a result, Slovenia, as an example of a country that does not present this real or perceived threat to jobs, is already reaching or exceeding 80% of European development, catch-up or speeding up some of the old EU or EU Member States 15. Slovenia can, for all these reasons, be cited as a very positive example, as something that emerges from some, unfortunately, widely distributed images among the ordinary citizens of some EU countries that emerge from some simplified patterns of how it will be necessary for new members, for the poorer East to pay even for a long generation and for future generations. Slovenia can successfully break these stereotypes with its own example, in its position, with its own development. To the extent that we are able to upgrade this with the successful Presidency, which we are preparing intensively, then we can say that we have been an important stone in the mosaic of building new confidence, which the EU needs very much with us to take steps from these institutional blockades in which it is, and to take decisions that will allow further growth, job creation and further expansion. Further enlargement of the EU is, in my opinion, a strategic imperative. And speaking of this step, I am not just referring to the Western Balkan countries, which are our priorities because of our proximity and other strategic interests, and I am also talking about the wider EU neighbourhood. There are certainly reflections on the issue of energy supply for Europe and the issue of natural resources, as well as geostrategic rounding, that are very important. And it is in the interest of the European Union that this area is expanding, that this space of stability does not end sharply at the borders of the European Union, but that these are soft transitions and that these soft transitions in real time, when those who aspire to membership in the European Union meet the conditions, are also upgraded by the actual enlargement of the European Union or in conjunction with certain privileged statuses, so that some space of stability, prosperity and progress is actually broadened. Only after we actually create real conditions for this process after this current deadlock, in which we have been given a similar span or at least about the same scale - probably the same due to historical circumstances - will it never - as at the time the European Union was expanding with the wave we were part of, will we be confident that the European Union, as a whole, will actually be able to participate equally in the globalisation competition with the spaces, with the environment that is evolving more rapidly than we are today; but in many areas at a significantly lower initial level, so what big panic is not needed here, but serious and strategic reflection is needed. With this declaration that you have before you today, I think we are adopting the right guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. Many of the proposals in this text go beyond the ambitions of this year, and things will continue in the coming years, for sure. Of course, it is our interest to upgrade all that we do successfully in one year with successful steps also in the future and that there is a continuity of good work and good practice. Given that we have a relatively fresh practice, fresh experience, even when it comes to cooperation between government services or between the institutions of the executive and parliament in coordinating these steps, given that sometimes these deadlines are very short, and given that many things are being discussed, decided or codecisiond in Brussels, we will probably have to revise the techniques of this cooperation, coordination, a little reduction of this ballast or burden, a procedure where it is too long or unnecessary, and ensure a faster flow of information where important decisions are indeed concerned, as well as coordination and decision-making. However, I think that, for the time being, this cooperation has also gone hand in hand with the fact that there were no important obstacles, that at least some of the good practices that had been established at the time when Slovenia was still negotiating for membership in the European Union could be built up, and the government wants things to be done in this direction in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dimitri Ruple. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u4	Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Allow me to add a few words myself to the external aspects of the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of our country in the institutions of the European Union in 2006. First of all, I'm going to say something that is probably familiar to everyone. Slovenia is a member of the European Union and the European Union is a global player, and this, of course, means that Slovenia is itself in some way a global player. Both Slovenia and the European Union have come a long way in recent years. Today, the European Union is able to respond to crises and instability not only in the European continent, but wherever in the world, the latest decision to participate in the Congo also confirms. Slovenia also plays an active and successful role in the external political field in the European Union. With its external political activity, the European Union has made an important contribution to strengthening global stability, security, peace and development. The Western Balkan countries are getting closer to European integration, the deepening of relations with the European neighbourhood countries has continued, the European Union has been actively involved in the reconstruction and stabilisation of Iraq, has played an important role in the Middle East peace process, has made progress in relations with the United States of America, China and other partners. Nevertheless, we must be aware that the European Union is still halfway there. Our ability to respond to changes in the international environment must be even faster and even more effective. The European Union has played an important role when, on the outside, it has acted unitedly and with public views and Slovenia has so far been distinguished by its contribution to this unity or by its failure to break it. In this regard, it is particularly important that the debate on the future of the European Union continues in 2006; something has already been said about this; let me say just a few more words about this. The ability of the European Union to act coherently externally depends largely on its effective internal structure. For Slovenia and, of course, for most members of the European Union, including Europe in a broader sense, the Treaty of Constitution is of paramount importance for Europe. It represents the broadest possible consensus on the future institutional structure of the European Union, without which some key projects, such as enlargement, would be compromised. The country will continue to participate actively in the debate on the future of the European Union and will form it as soon as possible in 2008. We will take a thoughtful and pragmatic approach, the Constitutional Treaty is of course important, because it enables the European Union to be more effective or should enable the European Union to be as effective as possible, as simple as possible, as a European Union that is as understandable as possible to contribute to the security and well-being of all citizens. The period of reflection, as it is called, is slowly running out and the period of intense search for solutions begins. But there's something clear now. Any solution will have to have the support of the citizens of the European Union. I would like to remind you that there is a debate in the institutions of the European Union on how to explain to the public, especially in the old Member States, how these citizens can be explained the essence of European integration. The essence of European integration, European integration suddenly today, at a time when Slovenia has become a member, or when the membership of the European Union has increased, is no longer self-evident. Integration for the European Union is no longer self-evident. That is why we must make every effort, perhaps even in the parliaments of all countries, to bring the Constitution and future issues as close to the citizens as possible. We will, of course, have to work intensively with the Constitution and with the issues of the future of Europe during our presidency. The debate on the future of the European Union is also closely linked to the debate on further enlargement. Slovenia will also advocate a positive accession of the European Union to enlargement in 2006. It is crucial that enlargement policy remains high on the agenda of the European Union, as it represents one of its most powerful instruments in achieving the progress of candidate countries and potential candidates. This will be the most important approximation of the Western Balkan countries for us. Of course, all countries that have a European perspective and are at a certain stage of European integration must respect and meet certain political and economic criteria and act in accordance with common European standards and values. Slovenia is prepared to assist these countries in meeting these objectives. To this end, they have also set up a centre to help bring the European Union closer. For example, Bulgaria and Romania are expected to become members of the European Union on 1 January 2007, it is said very soon. In this context, the progress report presented by the European Commission in May will be crucial. We will also closely monitor Turkey's progress in the negotiating process. Slovenia supports Croatia's membership in the European Union. It also sees the approach to negotiations as a framework within which solutions can be found for open bilateral issues in the European spirit. The speed of Croatia's accession negotiations will depend in particular on Croatia's readiness to take over, implement and comply with European legislation and European standards. In these negotiations, Croatia will also be able to demonstrate its credibility with full respect for what has been agreed. There's only one other observation. Slovenia and 9 other new members were more fortunate than some of our neighbours or Western Balkan countries. We have come to the European Union at a wave of energy triggered by the fall of the Berlin Wall. The Republic of Slovenia has arrived in the European Union at the right time, and today this energy appears to be exhausted and may even be consumed. Slovenia, if I look back a moment ago, as Chair of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has devoted much of its time to an in-depth dialogue with countries that fall within the framework of European Neighbourhood Policy. This year, within the framework of the European Union, we will try to use our knowledge and actively contribute to the upgrading of relations between the European Union and those countries. We will advocate the active implementation of the action plans already adopted and the early preparation of new ones. Controversial cartoons, mainly linked to publications in Danish newspapers and outbreaks of violence, which testify that the international community, or if you want the European Union, is under-devoting to the dialogue of civilizations and cultures. To effectively address and resolve conflict situations in the world, mutual understanding and tolerance are essential, understanding and tolerance and the only possible path to lasting stability. We will continue to encourage the Barcelona process, in particular the Analint Foundation, for dialogue between cultures and civilizations, in order to be more effective in dialogue between partners, and thus achieve mutual understanding and respect. Finally, we need dialogue between religions and churches in Slovenia. With the emergence of new global players, such as India and China, the international environment is changing, so it will be extremely important to continue with the chapter of the Transatlantic Partnership and at the same time develop an effective strategy for relations with incoming world powers. The issue of energy appears to be one of the key issues in the international community in the coming period. The Secretary-General of Solana has been tasked with drawing up a specific foreign policy strategy on this issue. The Spring European Council was also intended to develop an energy policy for Europe. In this light, relations between the European Union and Russia will have a new dynamic and context. The Republic of Slovenia will continue to advocate dialogue with Russia. This should be based on equality and consideration of common interests. This dialogue will be somewhat complicated because of the events we have witnessed in these days, Ukraine and Belarus, in Transnistria and for the sake of communication on the other hand, between Russia and China. The year 2006 will also be important for development policy. Within this, the European Union will continue its active policy towards Africa. The implementation of the adopted European Union strategy for Africa last December is our joint support to the African countries to emerge from the scourge of poverty and to take a firm path towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Discussions within the European Union will aim not only at sound development policies but also at the coherence of trade, environment, migration, agricultural and other policies. At the outset, I have already mentioned the growing activity of the European Union in the global environment. This is particularly evident in the conduct of the European Union, which also takes over and runs crisis and civilian operations. The last such important decision is the operation already mentioned in the Congo. The speed and non-problem nature of this decision is of paramount importance to the decision-making process in the European Union. Slovenia will continue to support the European Union within the common European defence policy, which will be willing and able to assume its responsibility for conducting crisis operations. In doing so, transparent cooperation and coordination with NATO will be particularly important. Even now, we can say that 2006 will be extremely varied and dynamic in the foreign policy area. Our country will continue to pursue its objectives and priorities within the European Union and at the same time actively cooperate in strengthening the common foreign and security policy that will help resolve conflict situations in the world and develop peaceful relations between countries. If I conclude, among other tasks that I have already mentioned and explained in more detail, we will also engage in regional integration within our European mission and our European mission. We have before us the creation of a euro area, we will deal with policy towards neighbouring countries and we will prepare intensively for the Presidency of the European Union, which will start in early 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Declaration was addressed as competent working bodies by the European Union Affairs Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Anton Kokal, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u6	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the distinguished representative of the Government's Service for European Affairs, honourable Members and Members! At its 42nd meeting, on 17 March 2006, the Committee on European Union Affairs considered the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and acceptance. At its meeting, the European Union Affairs Committee also took note of the report on the situation in the European Union and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in 2005. Within a time limit set by 15 March 2006, the amendments to the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union were tabled in 2006 by the following proposers, the home working bodies and Members: the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the two amendments, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the seven amendments, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the two amendments, and Ambassador Ferri Horvat of the two amendments. To these amendments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, 17.3.2006, forwarded to the Committee a written position in which it supported all amendments and made comments on two. The Committee on the Affairs of the European Union has taken these comments into account and supported the amendments. The opening presentation of the proposal for a declaration was presented by Katja Rejec Longar, Deputy Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs, and by Dr Janez Shumrad, v.d. Director-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for European Affairs and Political Bilateral. Both presented the stronger political priorities of their work circle. At the same time, the Government's European Affairs Service said that the three key political priorities are to take over the euro, establish the European Union's external border and free movement of people and implement the Lisbon Strategy. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, however, presented Slovenia's narrower foreign policy priorities. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee asked representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a few questions and made comments. Chapter 11 - The environment was given a positive opinion or endorsement by the members of the Committee. Chapter 9 - The information society has been exposed to the fact that Slovenia's priorities are poorly processed, but in fact they represent the actual situation. The members of the Committee also thanked the Government for their cooperation in the consideration of the proposal for a declaration on the home work bodies, then discussed how the substantive preparations of the Republic of Slovenia for the EU Presidency were being carried out and how they were affected by the absence of the State Secretary of the Government's European Affairs Service. The debate also took place on how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will promote and implement Slovenian as one of the official and constructive languages of the EU and as a means of promoting Slovenia itself, how Slovenia and Slovenian culture will be recognised in the EU, and what role it will play in this area until and during the EU Presidency. The debate also took place on the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the planned amendments to the directive on television without borders, which is likely to be adopted in 2008. The members of the committee expressed support and joy that the establishment of the European Institute for Gender Equality has become a project of Slovenia, which is also being launched in Slovenia, and that funds are also envisaged in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provided the following answers to the questions raised and comments raised. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been preparing for the presidency since 1.1.2005. The work of the Government's European Affairs Service under the leadership of the Deputy Secretary of State shall be carried out smoothly. Preparations for the Presidency of Slovenia are under way. To this end, a special working group has been set up, consisting of representatives from all ministries, and will be coordinated by a representative of the Government's European Affairs Service. The staffing structure for assistance in the Presidency has already been established, as there is a list of people who will participate. The EU Presidency programme of the Republic of Slovenia will be presented by the new Head of Government for European Affairs in May. As part of its consideration of the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in 2006, the Committee adopted 20 amendments. The EU Affairs Committee has also proposed its amendments and adopted them without further discussion. The amendments referred to the following chapters: the opening part, the continuation of preparations for the adoption of the euro, the third chapter - the Constitutional Treaty, the fourth chapter - General and institutional matters, the sixth chapter - the General Economic Framework or Policy Coordination, the seventh chapter - Strengthening competitiveness, the eleventh chapter - Environment, the thirteenth chapter - the Common Agricultural Policy and Fisheries, and the sixteenth chapter - Foreign Policy. At the meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia orally identified and supported the amendments adopted. On 22.3. the government also sent a written opinion on the amendments of the competent working bodies and supported them. The amendments adopted are included in the proposal for a completed declaration, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on the updated proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in 2006 and Slovenia's priorities for the work of the Council of the EU in 2005 and adopted the following decision: The EU Affairs Committee adopted at its 42nd regular meeting on 17.3.2006 a supplementary proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the EU in 2006.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Jožet Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Prime Minister Janša, distinguished ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! At its 12th regular meeting, on 17 March this year, the Committee on Foreign Policy, pursuant to Article 154(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, considered as a competent working body the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006 with a communication on the situation in the European Union and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in it in 2005, which, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and the second paragraph 154.f and the first paragraph of Article 154. of the Rules of Procedure, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for information or for consideration and acceptance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opening remarks, Committee President Jožef Jerovšek said that for the third time the National Assembly had been considering the proposal for a declaration as provided for by the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly on matters of the European Union and the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Foreign Policy will carry out an examination of the proposal for a declaration in the field of foreign and security policy and the enlargement of the European Union, adding that it has also received a report on the situation in the European Union and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in 2005. President Jerovšek also pointed out that the proposal for a declaration as a parent working body in the field of security policy had already been addressed by the Defence Committee, which had comments on the document. Mr Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, stressed that the Republic of Slovenia had established itself as a credible and active member during the two-year period of membership in the European Union and that the Presidency of the European Union would pose a particular challenge for Slovenia in the coming years. He said that the declaration sets Slovenia's priorities in the field of European affairs in 2006 and covers wider and narrower political priorities in specific areas. He presented the key content of that part of the document dealing with foreign and security policy and these are the preparation for the Presidency of the European Union, the future of the European Union, the enlargement of the European Union and the Western Balkan countries, the European Neighbourhood Policy and the Barcelona process, the strengthening of the role of the European Union in the global international community and development assistance. With regard to the Presidency of the European Union, Minister Rupel stressed that Slovenia is preparing for a self-presidency presidency, which is likely to be based on the 18-month Presidency programme, which Slovenia will develop together with Germany and Portugal, and should also start talks with France, which will chair in the second half of 2008. With regard to the future of the European Union, Minister Rupel said that the Treaty of Constitution for Europe is of exceptional importance for the European Union, as important European projects will be threatened without institutional changes to the existing treaties. With regard to the discussions on the general enlargement strategy of the European Union, Slovenia remains committed to keeping enlargement policy high on the agenda of the European Union. Slovenia thus supports the entry of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union in January 2007, provided that the required criteria are met. Slovenia supports Croatia's membership in the European Union and sees accession to the negotiations as a framework within which solutions can be found for open bilateral issues in the European spirit. Slovenia will also closely monitor accession negotiations with Turkey and Macedonia. Minister Rupel also drew attention to the importance of the European Union's neighbourhood policy towards countries that are at the very border of the European Union and want closer cooperation with it. The Barcelona Process will also be extremely important, particularly as a dialogue between cultures and civilizations, which actively promotes mutual understanding and respect. It is also important to strengthen the role of the European Union in the global international community, where it will have to become more effective as it becomes a big, global partner. In the area of development cooperation, the attention of the European Union will also be focused in 2006 on Africa, in particular on poverty eradication and conflict resolution. After a short discussion, the Committee voted on the amendments to the Committee. With 12 votes and no votes against, the Committee adopted the amendment to Chapter 3.1, enlargement of the European Union and of the Western Balkans and 13 votes in favour and without vote against the amendment of the Committee to Chapter 16.1 of the Barcelona Process. The amendments adopted are included, together with the amendments of the Committee on European Union Affairs, in a joint proposal for a declaration, which is an integral part of both reports. After the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006 and supported it by 12 votes to none. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u10	Hello again! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would only stop at certain chapters and certain points of these chapters, which are listed in the priorities of Slovenia as part of the declaration. The first chapter, the financial perspective, where we know that Slovenia has been engaged in constructive dialogue throughout the European Council negotiations, has not put too much into either group, but we know that it is necessary to reach an interinstitutional agreement at this moment, which will allow this financial perspective to begin at all. The Cohesion Policy, the specific objectives of the European Union this year are the adoption of proposals for regulations containing, in particular, the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the establishment of a European Territorial Cooperation Group. Under chapter three, the Constitutional Treaty has been quite said today. In our New Slovenia Group, we believe that Slovenia did the right thing by ratifying the treaty as one of the first ones. We know there's actually no going back. The way forward is, in fact, the only way that can solve this permanent contract and hopefully a sufficient number of members will also ratify it and then it will be possible to reach concrete conclusions for all the other members, or that the matter will not in fact remain completely inconsistent. General institutional matters. Slovenia here supports the Interinstitutional Agreement on Better Lawmaking, which is a lot of talk in the European Union. Similar problems as in many Member States are easier, clearer and economically less burdensome legislation. Under Chapter Five, the Lisbon Strategy. The Lisbon Strategy, which, as previously presented by the Prime Minister, was the biggest talk at the spring government meeting or at the Spring European Council. We know that it includes four basic objectives, which we hope will not continue to spread if we want it to achieve an effective objective. Under this chapter, there is also a very important sub-chapter for us, the Transitional Period for the Free Movement of Labour, where we know that we have witnessed the closure of some of the old Member States. However, some old Member States are now thinking or will obviously open up their labour market for the new Member States as well. Then, under Chapter 6, the General Economic Framework. This is about the European Union's insistence on the Stability Pact. The Council of the European Union continues to implement the Stability and Growth Pact. Slovenia has been in the position all the time, and Parliament has always supported the government in that these frameworks or those criteria would not spread so that they would not break into unhealthy borders. Here too, the enlargement of the euro area, as already mentioned by the Prime Minister, is planned, and some of the new Member States are withdrawing slightly. Slovenia remains here firmly behind the goal of coming to the euro area next year. However, we know that there is also much debate on the provision of the European Union's budgetary resources, which is also linked to the situation in the Member States and to a very different approach to tax policy in the Member States. Under Chapter 7 - Strengthening competitiveness are mainly covered by better regulation, greater efficiency and compliance, then innovation and entrepreneurship. It's all connected to the Lisbon strategy. This is the final adoption of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme 2007-2013 and the 7th Framework Programme for Research and Development, which is also widely discussed. For us, however, it is also an extremely important package within this chapter of education and training and an integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning. Under the 8th programme is the development of an active internal market. We know that this is the most important directive on services in the internal market, as already discussed by the Prime Minister. Here we believe that it is right that Slovenia is exercising some of its views or concerns. We do know, however, that the European institutions are here before a relatively difficult task, given that the European Parliament has substantially changed this directive in the light of the initial proposal, and the European Commission must now take a position on this amended proposal. Information society, energy, transport and chemicals policy. Here we see the most important emphasis that has been given in recent times of energy, including in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy. We also believe in the Slovenian criterion that there is an urgent need to strengthen efforts to promote renewable energy sources, where specific measures are not specifically mentioned, but we believe that this basis is extremely important, both for Slovenia's active participation in this issue and for a little more active work in Slovenia itself. Under Chapter 10, employment and gender equality, the Committee also strongly felt that it was right for Slovenia to stand for the seat of the European Institute for Gender Equality. In this chapter, however, it is also very important that our Group assesses the area of culture and youth. Under Chapter 12, sustainable development is also one of the priorities of Slovenia, which is defined in the development strategy of Slovenia for the period 2005-2013 and is also summarised in the reform programme, which has been very up to date in the last month. The common agricultural policy is also very important for Slovenia. This is about strengthening the new reformed common agricultural policy within the European Union. In this respect, we can say that in the past Slovenia has also been quite successful in drawing on funds in this segment. The area of freedom, security and justice. Here is a very important chapter on strengthening freedom and strengthening security. In particular, in our Group of Members, it seems to us that it is a very important sub-chapter of judicial action. We know that the European Union is following the Hague Programme for the Strengthening of Freedom, Security and Justice, from which the Hague Programme's action plan follows. Chapter 15 follows, which speaks of enlargement and the countries of the Western Balkans, and something has already been said today. We expect a report from the European Commission on the progress of Romania and Bulgaria, which, if the Council so assesses, will enter the European Union on 1 January 2007. Chapter 16, Foreign policy, where an amendment was proposed by our parliamentary group, which was also adopted by the Committee. In particular, the role of Parliament would be more stressed in the declaration itself. And it is in this chapter, or in the point on the future of the European Union, that we have written down and also accepted that it is right that the government actively cooperates with Parliament in the debate on the further development of the European Union. And also, chapter 17 - human rights. Here we know that the most important debate on the Framework Regulation establishing the Agency for Fundamental Rights, which is expected to take place from 1.1.2007. The priorities of the three key tasks already mentioned in relation to the functioning of Slovenia within the framework of the European institutions, which I would like to stress in particular, and which are supported by the New Slovenia Group, are: Slovenia, as an active partner in the European Union, is primarily preparing for the Presidency as already mentioned, the government has been actively involved in this work since 1 January 2005, and we also expect Parliament to present the Presidency by the government; preparations for the adoption of the euro, after recent visits by some European Commissioners, we have heard that Slovenia is on the right track and, of course, establish external borders, which is one of our key tasks under Schengen. Under the second chapter - Reforms for development - it is particularly important to implement the Lisbon Strategy. I think that Slovenia has taken its work very seriously here. The European Commission's response to the action plan of our programme is, we can say, in the upper half of the positive action plans. A revision of the European Union's sustainable development and preparation for a new financial perspective and efficient use of resources. Statistics show that Slovenia has significantly improved the efficiency of spending from European funds at this time. This was also demonstrated by an open debate on the European Union Affairs Committee recently where the government presented the effects of its actions. I must say that in this case, some positive assessments have also been made by the opposition. Slovenia is a reliable partner in the region and the world, the enlargement of the European Union and the countries of the Western Balkans. Of course, it is about supporting the stabilisation of this area of the European Union and the accession of the new countries that have emerged in this area, particularly in order to set the date of accession negotiations for Macedonia as soon as possible and to conclude negotiations for the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. With regard to the report submitted by the Government on work for last year, I believe that the report is good. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the report is transparent, but we would like to see, in particular, those points that define the state of certain legislative acts that are currently being adopted within the framework of the European institutions, so that they can be further specified, in what state these acts are, because we believe that, in particular, the national assembly would be more easily followed and treated and prepared in a more qualitative manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u11	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, ministers, representatives of the government. In the beginning, Mr Prime Minister said that under the dry title of the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union, 2006 was an important subject. Absolutely. And the logical question that follows, especially in the Slovenian National Party, which, according to its Euroscepticism, said that no matter who led it, who was in power, would breathe for the collar, would be so much more careful what was going on. The institutional crisis was caused by the non-admission of the Constitutional Treaty. We all know that. Last but not least, let me say that the Slovenian National Party sees Slovenia as a member of the European Union as 2 million Slovenians who are actually in one country, the European Union. Therefore, as we are interested in what is going on in the country of Slovenia, we are interested in what and what will happen to Slovenians in the European Union. It deplores me that even in the amendment, in chapter three, the proposal to delete the second paragraph, which deals with Slovenia's priorities for the work of the Council of the European Union in 2006, is the second paragraph, which speaks of the introduction of the euro and the external borders of the euro and the Constitutional Treaty. If the representative of the Presidency of Austria tells us that Austria is now waiting for what will happen to the Constitutional Treaty, that it is necessary to breathe to other countries and so on, of course we obey as dogs, quietly and quietly stick. I am convinced and appreciate that, in addition to the essential and basic task set out in this declaration, which, once again, I stress, with this, I absolutely agree with the Prime Minister, with a very important content document, that Slovenia should be the one with the initiative and insist that the process of adopting the Constitutional Treaty continues and this is intense. Everyone's quiet, and we're quiet. Why is that? We're equal members. It's important to us, because on the other hand, you know, we Slovenians are acting a little double. On the one hand, we write in this declaration that we support the entry of Croatia and Turkey, and on the other hand, if the Constitutional Treaty is not adopted, the Treaty of Nice, which allows 25 members, as far as it already is, and nothing more. It means that we are also two-faced when we absolutely support the entry of Bulgaria and Romania. But the entry of these two countries, despite meeting all the conditions, will not be possible because the Treaty of Nice, which allows 25 members and nothing more, is in force. And absolute priority should be the adoption of a constitutional treaty. Another point that I think the Slovenians are really greedy of people. The three foundations of justice are available to each country at the time of entry into the European Union. There is a free movement of labour among these. And what's going on? First of all, there's a six-year transitional period for 15 people. Of course, we had to accept this or we wanted to accept it peacefully, and now we are waiting mercifully for this 15 to one day invent by May whether she will be three years old or not. It violates the fundamental, fundamental rights of each Member State of the European Union and we write in a declaration: Slovenia looks forward to the European Commission's report on the effects of the transitional period in the field of free movement. Please! It should be written: Slovenia requires respect for the fundamental rights of EU Member States and requires the free movement of labour as of 1 May 2006. Not to write, however, because Slovenia does not threaten Europe. Who knows? How can we say this in 15% of unemployment in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, or how old is it? Why shouldn't the Slovenians go to Europe? Can Slovaks and Czechs come to Slovenia? Of course they can't. To developed Slovenia. If we move forward, I did not find a specific word in the declaration on the common security and defence policy. We have an argument in this National Assembly where the Slovenian army will go, what the Slovenian army will do, where it will work, in whose name it will work. Nor do I have a word on how European defence policy is designed and how and how Slovenia will cooperate, because it has to, within the framework of the European defence forces. That's not what this is about. If I keep going. We're talking about a so-called green book. Maybe some people don't know what it is. That's labor law. We mention that this book exists. And that's all. But this Slovenian woman is interested in this moment. However, if we are talking about the introduction of the euro, a respected colleague and a colleague, why not do what she did, I ask myself, I do not say that it is the same as Sweden, Great Britain, Denmark. Although I have already received an answer in the past four years. They can afford it because they're economically strong. Slovenia is also economically strong. Not least, why don't people decide whether we're mature to receive the euro or not? It is right that we want to accept it, because it is also a simpler financial policy. However, the adoption of the euro means that we carry good and bad Slovenians and Slovenians, all that will happen in the financial and monitoring area in the EU. And it is no wonder that some banks are already providing both investment and other loans on terms of insurance and whether we will make them available to you in the Swiss franc or euro account. And when you ask why, they say that because we are not sure that the euro will be safe and the euro will fluctuate. Are we aware that when we join the EU with the euro in 2007, we are taking on great commitments. After all, we are not Montenegro, which already has the euro. But he's got it to have the euro. We bear the consequences that we are aware of in this declaration, respected colleagues and colleagues, and sober reflection is needed whether we go to the euro when we go to the euro and what it brings. It brings, as stated, patient tax policy, the limitation of inflation, the management of all parts and services within the EU of the 500 million people that will maintain the lowest level of inflation. And we'll all share well and poorly together. Let's say to the Slovenes and the Slovenians that when the euro is there will be the euro. And then, whatever its value will be, it will be. We can say that it will be based on 240 and will be a fixed course. This is what we all want, but we do not know what economic indicators will be like in the operations of all of Europe. Especially is it unacceptable if today I am very grateful to the government and the decision to double price labelling, but I miss what we all do. [[...]] Go to the shops, not just you, and the people, and look what happened! I'm sure that 70% of those who have branded their products, starting from stores to, I don't know which institutions have already raised their prices. Go take a look! The elevator was absolutely made. Everything that cost 245 tolars was raised, say, to 250.50. It's huge! I went to watch it on purpose. And there's no control. This means nothing for one product, but for one million products this means sudden inflation in our country and, of course, a worse starting point when the euro is being applied. I agree that the most important task is the Presidency of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, in 2008. This is a very responsible task and an honour of this country, which must be presented as a strong country. However, despite all these three objectives, which are probably also objectives for the future, I do not see the clear and precise objective of this country as each country has. Austria, for example, now has a million new jobs in employment policy during its presidency. We have no specific and clear objective. And I warn [[End warning sign]] , on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that our task will be to adopt a constitutional treaty. This is going to be a very difficult task. The Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union will, of course, be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u13	Time's up, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u14	Yeah, I'm done. We will not oppose the declaration, but I ask my fellow Members and colleagues to cooperate and correct it as much as we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u16	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers and other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006, with a report on the situation in the EU and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in 2005. The proposal for a declaration reflects full membership, obligations, rights and membership of the European Union. This document sets out guidelines for the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the operational programme of the European Council, which our country, as a member of the European Union, must respect and ensure their legal placement and realization. Given that Slovenia is preparing for the Presidency of the European Union in 2008, it is necessary to ensure the timely adoption of all national harmonised acts, in agreement with the competent European institutions, as part of the preparations. In the Group of Members, we accept the structure of this document and its priorities, which are divided into three parts. The first part gives stronger political priorities and three components of Slovenia as an active partner in the European Union, development reforms and Slovenia, a reliable partner in the region and in the world. The scope of the second part sets out the priorities in the 17 chapters, in terms of upgrading the general policy orientations already presented in the first part. That is why European priorities should be included in this year, to the greatest extent possible, as part of political, economic, economic, social and environmental visions, and should also be addressed in a timely manner. In our Group of Members, we note that the priorities include, in addition to an extremely demanding project of the Presidency of the European Union, the adoption of the euro, the regulation of the Schengen border and, more recently, the increasingly deliberate labour market within the framework of the free movement within the Lisbon Strategy. At the same time, we ensure the proper promotion of our country in the European Union and in the European Belt at all. Slovenia will support the proper planning of the future financial perspective, the enlargement process of the European Union, the effective withdrawal of funds from the Structural Funds, support to the Western Balkan countries, the preservation and expansion of the role of the European Union at the global level. Under Chapter 6, greater attention will be paid to transparency of public finances, the promotion of longer-term employment in the labour market and pension insurance. At the same time, our party supports and advocates a model of lifelong learning and training that ensures the inclusion of the elderly in accordance with the provisions of the European Constitutional Treaty. The guidelines on improving the system and transferring the rights contained in the supplement to pension insurance and the active monitoring of demographic changes and their immediate consequences, and the timely adaptation of the policy of the protection of older persons and social protection policies, are extremely important. In the DeSUS Group, we stress social cohesion in terms of achieving faster development and meaningful measures for greater prosperity for citizens, more accessible to the E-government, E-Health, E-Business, etc. We note that the active involvement of individual ministries is needed to achieve a greater synergy effect with the possibility of checking and implementing harmonisation and liberalisation. All that is said is only part of a comprehensive document that represents, if we shrink, our position and the content of our operation in the European Community. Since the declaration with the amendments of the working bodies has been further improved, there is no reason not to support it in our parliamentary group, as it is in fact only a general framework within which the detailed content will always be determined by the sectoral legislation that is already in force and also by the one that is still coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u18	Dear ministers, deputies, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! In a good month, it will take two years for Slovenia to become a full member of the European Union after its multi-annual preparations in May 2004. The project of Slovenia's entry into the EU was undoubtedly one of the most important, if not the most important, project since our independence. This was also realized by almost all the opposition parties at the time, among them certainly the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has consistently supported Slovenia's entry into the European Union in a responsible and reasoned manner. We are therefore pleased in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006, which we are addressing today, has received almost unanimous support or approval from the working bodies of the National Assembly with rare exceptions. This is important guidance, as many of you have identified in your debates, which will not depend solely on our position in the international community, but in the event of a consensual adoption of the declaration we will show a responsible attitude not only to the EU, but primarily to ourselves and to our future development. The declaration we are addressing today, through the priorities that are primarily the preparations for the Presidency of Slovenia in 2008, the continuation of preparations for the adoption of the euro, the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, the revision of the EU's sustainable development, preparations for the next financial perspective, support for the further enlargement and approximation of the EU's Western Balkans and efforts to further strengthen the EU in the global international community, places us in a group of countries that have realised that it is not good to miss the opportunity, but we must do so on the understanding that we must create them primarily ourselves. The proposal for a declaration, which is substantively divided into two parts, covers in the first part a narrower political priority of our country. Allow me to point out in a few words our views on the three main priorities where we first read: Slovenia as an active partner in the EU. In this context, in addition to preparing for the EU Presidency in the first half of 2008 and preparing for Slovenia's entry into the Schengen area, the most important task of taking over the euro is to take over the euro as of 1 January 2007. Despite some of the concerns that may arise in this context, the orientation of the Slovenian Government, which is a timely proposal for double price labelling adopted by this National Assembly and other measures, has provided the appropriate basis for preventing an unjustified price increase, has proved to be good. If there are no unexpected circumstances, we hope that Slovenia will be able to record the softest transition to the euro area, which should also allow for the introduction of the euro envisaged by the declaration and other legislative and technical adjustments envisaged and, of course, to inform the public of the exchange of currency. The other priorities, which are important not only for 2006 but also for our future development, are, of course, the reforms for development and, in this context, the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, where Slovenia will strive to create an environment that is conducive to knowledge, research, education. It will work to remove barriers to worker mobility and create a better regulatory environment at European level that will facilitate business operations and the lives of citizens. We believe that this is one of the most important priorities, as well as the efficient use of resources and preparation for a new financial perspective, where priority activities stem from the adoption of regulations and other cohesion policy strategic documents, and the preparation of relevant domestic implementing documents in order to reduce developmental development between regions. The Declaration focuses on measures that will make the best possible use of the opportunities offered by the financial perspective adopted for the period 2007-2013 at the end of last year. Some discussions on the proposal for a declaration at the working bodies of the National Assembly also convince us that we are also able to face serious development issues and not just formal discussions about whether we are being brought more by pigeons or sparrows on the roof. These were some of the discussions last year when the Luxembourg proposal for a future financial perspective was not adopted last June, which was later shown not to be as favourable as some of them wanted to present to us in this meeting. Above all, it was significantly worse than the British proposal, which, as I have already said, was adopted at the end of last year. Slovenia has the most favourable position at any time in history following this proposal. We therefore believe that it is right to focus here in Parliament on discussions on how to improve the EU's use of funds. The European Union's Committee on Affairs has thus found that the situation in this area in 2004 has been poor, as we have heard today from the period 2004-2006, could have been disastrous. Actually, we didn't take advantage of anything. However, we have found that the situation has improved significantly in 2005, after the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a number of operational measures last March, and that we are now achieving the best percentage of EU funds among the new members. Of course, we must not blind ourselves or be satisfied with what has been achieved. There is still a lot of nonsense and unnecessary bureaucracy in this area, but it is pleased to see the direction of the declaration of measures for rational and efficient use of funds. In this respect, the national development programme and the preparation of an appropriate set of quality projects for the next financial period are of exceptional importance. Of course, the national development programme should not be based solely on existing baselines, but on the past, it should also include good proposals for individual environments with a view to reducing the development backlog of individual less developed regions. There is no doubt that our country will be as developed as it will be to the least developed part. As the last of these three priorities, a stronger priority, Slovenia's reliable partner in the region and the world implies continued support for the enlargement process and support for the Western Balkan countries, support for the integration of Croatia and Turkey, stability and development of the Western Balkans, strengthening the Union as a global strategic partner to support the stability and development of the international community. In the second part of the declaration, where the broader priorities of Slovenia for the work of the Council of the European Union in 2006 are set out in more detail, we are following a series of guidelines, which we have heard a lot about today, so allow me to mention only some of the 17 chapters or of these key substantive definitions, which are far from the most important, however. It is cohesion policy, the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, the general economic framework of policies, the strengthening of competitiveness, the development of an active internal market, the information society, energy, transport and policy towards chemicals, employment, social affairs and gender equality, the environment, the sustainable development of the common agricultural policy and fisheries, the areas of freedom, security and justice and the enlargement of the European Union. Your Honor! The 2006 Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union represents the basic orientation of our country in the further development of all processes, some of which we have become part of since 1 May 2004. During this period, Slovenia has demonstrated and proved that it is not only a credible member and partner, but has shown that it is able to participate effectively in the design of processes and decisions with a common objective of faster development and prosperity. The orientations of the declaration also prevent us from having specific priorities that have been politically unnecessaryly politicised, in fact, stem from guidelines that have already been endorsed or emanated from the common orientations of the European Union in the past. I am thinking, of course, of the changes in the reform package and others. Slovenia will be as much a European country as the standards in force in Europe will be able to apply on domestic soils. There is no reason for us not to be even better and more successful than the best in Europe. This does not depend solely on the government and the ruling parties but on everything between us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we therefore want to see a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006 adopted by consensus in this High Council. We believe that this would be the best journey for all who will take care of its realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u19	Mr. Magg has the word. Milan M. Squeakle on behalf of LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u20	Mr Vice-President, Madam Ministers, Madam Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I will present my position on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006 with a report on the situation and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union in 2005. Let me start by saying that we will not oppose the declaration. In our implementation, however, let us highlight some of the important weaknesses of this declaration, this document. First, the deadline for discussion of the declaration. We are discussing the declaration today when it is practically a quarter of a year behind us and the first of the four European Councils is behind us. The other thing we regret is the text of the declaration. The declaration is poorly written in this first part, is indeed declarative, reminds of the resolution of some party congresses and is extremely empty. To prove it right away. In the first part, it speaks of Slovenia as active partners in the European Union and within it is the first point of preparation for the Presidency of the European Union. The only concrete content in this point is that we will choose the entire graphic presentation of this Presidency in 2006. Nothing about content. It is not as if the National Assembly is setting priorities on the basis of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What will be the specific content of the Presidency, the declaration is silent on this. I hear that the new Director of the Government for European Affairs, Mr Lenarčič, has come to explain this when he takes up his job. Another important area in this declaration and priorities are development reforms. I agree with Mr Janša, first Minister, that Europe needs a good example and that Slovenia could be a good example if it really implemented reforms to make a cheaper country, a more competitive economy, preserve European freedoms in Slovenia, freeing Slovenia's potential, all in order to show the European Union, ladies ministers, that we can have a quality life for citizens and citizens in Slovenia, and that this could also be the case for other European Union countries or countries wishing to become members of the European Union. But, Mr Janša and ministers, how can Slovenia remain a good example if it itself acts counter-reformally? In two rather surprising fairly non-diplomatic interviews, the Commissioner for Financial Affairs spoke very precisely about this. He said that Slovenia is one of the six countries with a serious structural problem, a serious structural problem with the ability to create public financial conditions for the preservation of a long-lived society. In this National Assembly, DeSUS and I also have a parliamentary party which most reflects the characteristics of this structural problem. How will you, for example, explain to Ecofin ministers, finance ministers or anyone who will do so to other countries how they should reduce their debt if you owe Slovenia the most in one year? I'm not going to repeat the numbers. How will the Minister of Local Self-Government explain to other countries what model of local self-government should be developed if more financially insolvent municipalities have been made in this mandate, while, for example, in Denmark, municipalities are being rounded up and increased in size to ensure the financial capacity of municipalities? How will you encourage confidence in the euro as Slovenia's new monetary unit if you taxed every tolar interest with a high rate income tax? No one can understand that. When you did that, you exempt another group from taxation. The year after the euro was taken over, i.e. at the start of the European Union Presidency in 2008, everyone in Slovenia will pay a tolar tax for every 5 tolar interest. It is fortunate that the Council of State has proposed an amendment to the Income Act, and I hope that the ruling coalition will support it. How will you, Mr. Bajuk, Mr. Vizjak? [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Bajuk, sir, I don't know, graduate? [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Master, Master Squeakle wants to explain to you here, but let me tell you, Mr Bajuk, that there are no scientific terms in the European institutions, but, of course, if you want, I can say that you are a doctor every time. As you wish, Dr. Bayuk and Mr. Mag. Vizjak, explaining to other ministers how to develop the capital market, but if you do not support the law on the protection of small shareholders, if you do not submit a law on acquisitions and if you are encouraging the replacement of directors of successful companies in Slovenia - I hope you do not have to list them - Dr. Bajuk and Mag. Visjak - from the day of your government's performance to today reduce the value of the Slovenian market by 7.4%. It blew up on the Slovenian stock exchange of 230 billion tolars. How will you promote the movement of services and competition if we are one of the few countries, Dr. Bayuk, which has not yet aligned itself with the new Public Procurement Act or the new so-called protection law if you want to, free competition in public procurement, our legislation with the directives which entered into force on 31 January 2006. Mr Janša, Dr. Bajuk, your government has had this technically demanding business in its plans for 2005. First, the law was to be adopted in June 2005, then in September 2005, then in December 2005, and following the current programme, it was to be adopted by the Government on 23 February 2006. Today, Dr. Bajuk, 28 March 2006 and the Public Procurement Act have not yet been adopted. Is this simply so that the necessary adjustments of offices are made over open calls and a new round hall of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is born? Thirdly, how will you remain ministers, the Minister of Culture, defend Slovenia as an example of free society if you have abolished public television with non-European law? Finally, how will you, Madam Ministers and Madam Minister, in Europe, which most appreciates transparency, defend that you have abolished the Anti-Corruption Commission, relieve the Director of the Money Laundering Office, which is a recognised expert in Europe, discharge the Director of the Budget Supervisory Office and devalue the work of the State Audit Commission? You simply cannot tolerate the transparency of supervisors and this is not a good case for the European Union. We therefore estimate that the declaration in its contents is far from what your government is doing. Nevertheless, it is necessary to discuss the individual elements of this declaration. Preparations for the Presidency of the European Union are an important issue, but if we are going to be one of the first countries to preside with trainees or for a few months, a few years of employees, temporary employees, then I am not surprised that the European corridors are not asking what the Presidency will bring to Slovenia, but what the Presidency will mean for the European Union. And that's not meant in a positive way. The question is not whether Slovenia will postpone the Presidency; it will be a question of whether the European Union will pass on the issue. The second part of the declaration and priorities discusses the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. This is also supposed to be the main theme at the March European Council. Nobody said anything about it today. Mr Janša spoke about the situation in the European Union and Dr Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke about the issues of the common foreign and security policy. I haven't heard any of the ministers talk about content. No one. That's what Mr Kokalj talked about the most. Nobody here has talked about the dilemmas of the next financial perspective, but I don't think about numbers, but about development policies, about agricultural policy, about issues related to, if you want, further expansion, especially financial ones, but it was kind of said, we're already on that side. It is stated in the declaration that Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union should strive to achieve the greatest possible progress in completing the internal market, where services are specifically mentioned. However, at a closed meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Mag. Visak, she wasn't able to say much about this. I hope that you will be more precise on the Slovenian position on the Services Directive in the discussion below. For example, about whether the hospital Slovenj Gradec should provide services to Austrian patients. This is a very specific question. And depending on Slovenia's position in the Services Directive, this can or will not happen. Or, for example, whether the University of Trieste will be able to offer individual programs to people from Primorska. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Mag. You can say something about this directive on services here in substance, because no one has talked about it, even though this Bolkenstein Directive is a major debate within the European Union. And the third part of the declaration speaks of Slovenia as reliable partners in the region. The enlargement of the European Union and the Western Balkan countries is highlighted. Dr. Rupel spoke today about the establishment of a European Union association assistance centre. But ladies from the ruling coalition, a few months ago, you rejected an amendment that would provide this centre with material conditions for its operation. Dr. Bajuk, Dr. Rupel, do you have any hidden funds to operate this centre? In the state budget, neither the tolar nor the item, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, were willing to open! If you want to act transparently, the money for this is spent here, in this round hall. If, of course, you are only doing the accounting with individual employees at the SVEZ, this is another story. And something else about priorities. I'm not going to say much, but I'm only going to point out one point because someone said they were supposed to accept it with consensus today. The priorities of Slovenia, page 11, updated and broad economic policy guidelines: Slovenia will support the promotion of longer stay in activities and individual pension insurance. Does this mean, gentlemen from DeSUS, Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Drobnič, if he has any title, please remind me whether Master Drobnič will therefore propose a change to the pension law, which will mean that we will be retiring later than now. That's what it says. Promoting a longer stay in activity. This is done with a new pension reform. We'll accept that today. This, however, is part of the yet to be negotiated framework for economic reforms. Finally, on the report on the situation in the European Union on the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in it in 2005. Anyone who has ever built a house knows that the first year of obtaining permits is preparing, if you want, basic elements, that's what the gentleman from the SDS talked about, so in 2004, as is always the case with the classics, there was not much expectation to draw on funds from the European Union. Now that Dr. Žagar has been able to correct, we have also expressed our due appreciation to the Committee and I think that things are going well. And in the end, the procedure. Mr Janša said today that they are thinking about changing the procedure for dealing with the debates or positions of Slovenia on the functioning of the European Union. Let the government warn you that Article 3a of the Constitution provides for a law which is adopted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. And if there is a problem at the closed meetings of the European Union Affairs Committee, it is a problem, you know, that the government is coming there unprepared. And I suggest that before you think about changing procedures, the government will make an appropriate effort. Of course, it will be necessary to strengthen the European Ministry, of course there will be something to be done in coordination, of course there will be a need to know the content, but this is the task of the government. Changing the procedure as queen of democracy in order for the government itself, as opposed to what the constitution or the law on cooperation between the government and the national assembly requires, is something that is unacceptable, since we are now having a great deal of difficulty in harmonising these positions. The declaration on the guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in 2006 is not a good enough document. It is a pity that the government has not also proposed amendments to this document, that we accept it so late in 2006, and I hope that we will accept it for 2007 before the beginning of the year. Let me remind you, for 2005, we accepted it for 2004 10 days after joining the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u21	On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Franc Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable ministers, Deputy Director of the European Affairs Service, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! In view of the important challenges and responsibilities in the handling and adoption of the declaration, we also believe that the Group of Social Democrats is not a normal routine event, but a document worthy of the special attention of the National Assembly. Much of this attention has been paid to this document at the meetings of working bodies, which is reflected also in the complementary proposal and in the reports, and allow me to add a few more points on behalf of the Group on some points without underestimating other important points of the declaration. First of all, I would like to say that these are matters that are important for the entire national assembly, both for the government majority and for the opposition and for the role of Parliament at all. This is also the reason why we have proposed in the opening part, in the preamble one sentence, which is short, but underlines the role of Parliament in the implementation of this declaration. In this regard, I should also point out that, despite the critical comments that we have made and have on this comprehensive and important document, we are satisfied, however, that all the amendments we have proposed through working bodies or direct bodies have not only been taken into account, but also unanimously accepted on the working bodies and have received the support of the Government with some additions that we have also accepted. Preparations for EU Presidency must be one of the most important tasks. The presidency of the first half of 2008 is and will be a great recognition, a challenge, an opportunity and, above all, a great responsibility for Slovenia. It is not an exaggeration to say that the eyes will not only be in the European Union, but in the world they will be in our country. Experience has shown that in the Presidency of the European Union, as a rule, the most successful or successful countries have been very small or small. This is a great opportunity for the promotion of Slovenia and its application in the European Union and in the world. In this project, Slovenia must have the ambition, with current themes and possibly innovative approaches, to maximise its national interests while at the same time contributing to the strengthening of the European Union. According to available information, the preparations for the government presidency so far are mainly organisational, human resources, technical, logistical and so on in the National Assembly. We therefore particularly note the need to accelerate substantive preparations and to identify our specific interests and priorities as soon as possible. In doing so, it is very important that the State Assembly be included as soon as possible in substantive preparation and prioritisation. It would not be right to wait only for the government's proposals, which we will then comment on, deal with and confirm. To this end, it is our assessment that a useful interview between the President and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly was last Thursday with the presidents of the working bodies, when we discussed, inter alia, the emphasis on content. Preparations for the introduction of the euro, which means most important after joining the European Union, are extremely important in 2006. Current indicators on meeting the conditions are also favourable and forecasts and preparations for taking the euro are well under way according to available information. In our view, it would be useful for the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and other institutions involved in the preparations to produce comprehensive information on the course of preparation. It would be useful to consider the information in the working bodies of the National Assembly, for example on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on the Committee on the Economy and possibly on any other working body, if possible before the expected publication of the convergence reports by the European Commission and the European Central Bank in May. The next treatment would make sense immediately after the introduction of the euro in early 2007. The consideration in the National Assembly could contribute to the effectiveness of the preparation and the reduction of risks and possible negative effects. It will then be useful to take into account the good and bad experiences of the countries that have taken over the euro. Of course, before us, the government, the coalition and the opposition, is an important and even more difficult task, what will happen after the introduction of the euro. The introduction of a common European currency brings opportunities as well as risks. The European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Almunia and the Head of Mission of the International Monetary Fund pointed out this at their last visit to the National Assembly last week. With regard to the recording of the common currency, as we must comply with the rules of the European Union and the European Central Bank, we propose that Slovenian spelling rules be respected in all other situations. In the parliamentary group, we will support the necessary legislative activities for the successful introduction or takeover of the euro. One of the most important tasks of Slovenia, in particular the government and the National Assembly, will be to prepare for the implementation of the new financial perspective. This allows us, despite all the difficulties in receiving, to obtain a considerable amount of funds, about €4.5 billion, and it is up to us to what extent or to what extent we will make use of them. We are pleased to note that some of our amendments have also been adopted by the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Affairs, with the support of the Government, with the aim of preparing ourselves as best as possible for the use of funds. Indeed, progress has been made in the use of funds in 2005, but we cannot be satisfied with this or it will not be enough to use funds under the new financial perspective. It is therefore necessary to ensure, in addition to the domestic financial share, effective coordination at government level, effective administrative organisation and capable professional staff, both at national and regional level. In our view, the Lisbon Strategy remains one of the key conditions for more efficient economic and social development and for the enforcement of its social market model. Faster economic growth, more quality jobs, competitiveness, sustainable development are also conditions for achieving the interests and needs of Slovenia. The European budget will also have to serve this purpose in the future. Due to shared powers at European Union and national level, more coordination of economic and other policies between the Member States of the European Union and the European Monetary Union will be needed. The current energy policy has undoubtedly been among these policies. The declaration rightly identifies it as one of the priorities for EU enlargement and strengthening cooperation with the Western Balkan countries. Slovenia has the interest and potential to participate actively in this process. For both political and economic reasons, it is important to strengthen the role and participation of the European Union in the international community. In addition to the specific priorities identified in the proposal for a declaration, we propose two additional additions, namely strengthening cooperation with other areas or regions in the world that play an increasingly important role in the global economy, and efforts to strengthen the role and more coordinated functioning of the European Union in international economic and financial institutions are also important. And that's all I'd say in closing. Surely it is a constitutional treaty and remains one important challenge for us as well, and as Foreign Minister Rupel recently said, it will certainly fall into our arms during the presidency and we cannot and must not avoid this challenge. We have important tasks ahead of us when we join the euro area, the Stability and Growth Pact, the problem of economic growth, given the fact that economic growth has been lagging behind in the euro area in recent years, and this is our important area of economic cooperation, the enlargement of the European monetary union and the things that will bring time and development. And just for the record. As pointed out in the debate on the Committee on European Affairs, we have very important tasks at home, not only what we will do in the institutions of the European Union, but mainly the tasks ahead of the government, I mean organisation, coordination, EU coordination of matters and others, the tasks of the National Assembly, its active functioning, we see that we are increasingly needing to travel to Brussels - either the President, representatives of working bodies and other Members and Members of Parliament. Next. It will be important to involve the social partners, particularly in the Economic Social Committee, which plays an important role as one of the institutions of the European Union, the local and regional communities on the Committee of the Regions and finally the NGOs, the general public and the media. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate. I give the floor to Mr Andrei Bajuk, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to clarify certain things that are not updated in this document in the sense that the events took place even later than this document was prepared. Above all, I would also like to make a formal announcement as regards the continuation of preparations for the euro takeover, which is Chapter 1.2, that we have in fact decided, together with the Bank of Slovenia, namely, the Governor on behalf of the Bank of Slovenia and personally on behalf of the Slovenian Government, to make a formal request, in accordance with the rules in force in this area, that both the European Commission and the European Central Bank assess the work of our country as regards the euro takeover, a few weeks before this period of two years, which would have to be completed under ERM2 rules. Both the European Commission and the European Central Bank have agreed to this, and we therefore expect that in mid-May their final report will indeed be a few weeks before the end of the two-year period, that we will actually have their report. Then their recommendation will be addressed in the world of June, if I am not mistaken, this is final on 17 June, and the final treatment is purely formal, but it was adopted in the world of finance ministers, the so-called ECOFIN, on 11 July, the date when the course will also be published and definitively set. As regards the question raised by honourable Mr Horvat. We expect that there will be no major problems as far as the course is concerned. The fact is that Slovenia has shown very great stability, as far as this is concerned, in all this period when we entered ERM2, we had the opportunity to cycle around a central currency, 15% up and 15% down. The fact is that only 0.15% differed up and down by 0.10%. This is said and not that Banka Slovenije should intervene on the market with its reserves, but the stability of our course is obvious, we do not expect to have a big surprise here, as far as this is concerned. On the other hand, on the basis of policy, it is both fiscal and monetary, which is strongly coordinated, that we have actually achieved that we are already 5, 6 months ahead of the deadline for achieving the objective of inflation, we have already achieved it with the data of the month of November, that things are being judged better than they were intended to be. I would also like to explain certain things that we have heard today. I will not respond to the personal assessments of the honourable Members, because I do not think it is the right place. When it comes to the Presidency of the European Union, I think that we must all first of all have it before our eyes that it is the responsibility of the Slovenian State, that those who have responsibilities will also act responsibly, and we also expect the support of all, irrespective of the internal political distinction or the diversity that obviously exists and is part of the democratic atmosphere. I would also like to clarify the stability of the euro takeover. The data is very simple. I think it's right to hear it again, even though I've explained it repeatedly in public. When we took over the government's responsibilities in December, we received a document from our predecessors, a report on a convergence programme that was prepared on the basis of the assumption that there would be no policy changes, which we considered to be a very timely report. So the report, which was prepared on the basis of the assumption of what the image of Slovenia will be at the end of 2005, if nothing really changes. When Dr. Marble, my predecessor, gave me this report, I was very grateful that Slovenia had to hand it over within a few days, and it was positive that the previous government had also prepared itself for this and offered us this opportunity, without any key changes, maybe just a few additions of what our intentions were. As far as 2005 is concerned, this report was sent to the institutions in Brussels and the European Central Bank, and this is the Convergence Report on 3 January 2005. This report sets out the forecasts of what will happen in Slovenia if the policy led by the previous government is maintained. Economic growth was expected to fall below 4.2% to 3.8%. I remember how in this national assembly some disguised joy was expressed when the first figures for the first quarter of 2005 were unfavourable as regards economic growth, and it showed how it would all go down and that Slovenia was really failing. The fact is that temporary data, and this has yet to be verified by the SURS, show that economic growth did not fall above the projected 3.8% to actually rise to at least 3.9%, this is said to persist as it is, slightly better than anticipated. On the other hand, you know, we inherited the 2005 budget, which was adopted in this National Assembly in December 2003. This budget provided for a deficit of 120 billion tolls, in fact at a rebalancing stage, and regardless of the fact that we also took over 70 billion additional expenditure that had not been budgeted and had to be paid, we planned a deficit of 92 billion tolls in the balance sheet. The implementation of how we did this is much better than that and actually there will be a deficit, judging by about 70 billion or 72 billion. Therefore, according to ESA 95, the deficit of 2.1% of gross domestic product was projected to fall by 0.5%. That we have also reduced the projected debt regardless of what else we hear and what else, and in anticipation of if a number repeats itself, then one day it will only hold. The fact is that this government reduced its public debt in 2005 which was foreseen in this convergence report prepared by the previous government to reach 30.7% of gross domestic product in 2005 at 29%. How did we do that? By keeping the funds remaining and being parked in one Banka Slovenije account for a little over 80 billion dollars, we spent as a law of power and by reducing public debt. As far as extra debt is concerned? This is the old Darsa story, which we have heard many times in this National Assembly, today again, Dars has been declared a company that works under the company law. The former government has decided to do so and has repeatedly explained to the European Commission, as well as to Eurostat, which has had a special mission, because I have also asked them to re-examine whether or not it holds that Dars' debt as a shareholder company, which is 100% owned by the Slovenian State, is not part of the public debt, and is our only concern and responsibility, not only for the government, but for the whole system in Slovenia, to ensure that this share company, although 100% of the state's own resources, is actually at its disposal. And that is that we will make all the changes that are needed in the toll system in time for this institution to actually have its own resources, and then we need not be afraid of anything. The fact is that we are all being warned, and it is right that you warn us, and I think that we must all stick to this, too, which means that the Republic of Slovenia has an additional responsibility. As long as we deal with this question responsibly, and so we have a few months left to change tolls or toll systems in order to ensure Dars' financial independence in the long term, then we need not be afraid of anything, nor of the burning speeches in this national assembly. So, the introduction of the euro is a fact, we think we can look proudly at everything we have achieved, I have already stated several times, and again here I also declare that this is not the work of a government, that this is the work of the whole of Slovenia, and the fact is that, in this period since we have this responsibility, this project has also been completed and in a slightly better situation than anticipated, there should be no difference in economic, financial and monetary policy. So, these are some kind of explanation for that. I would just like to add, as far as the new financial perspective is concerned, there has been a lot of talk about this, you know that negotiations are currently under way in the trilogue with the European Parliament. Slovenia's position is that the agreement with the European Parliament must follow as closely as possible the agreement on the new financial perspective reached in December 2005, but of course everyone understands and we also allow a few adjustments to the amounts. The fact is that even in the past, the current financial perspective in the 1999 compromise in Berlin adopted certain changes in the negotiations with Parliament and finally the new financial perspective increased by 0.21%. There may also be an explanation for the European Investment Bank. As you know, this is a multilateral institution in which Slovenia is also a member, we are formally shareholders there too. The debate is currently under way, and in part the debate, not only in the last Ecofin, but also in the world, has been presented with these conclusions that, in so far as the EIB has the added resources at its disposal, it will work more rapidly as regards the implementation of the new financial perspective and may also expand its operation outside the European Union. As far as this is concerned, we strongly supported the creation of a sufficient envelope for the Western Balkans; we are not the most excited about certain proposals for the European Investment Bank to operate in African countries as well. We estimate that there are other institutions with sufficient resources to do so from the World Bank and from the African Development Bank. Let's just focus on the EU as it is today, and also on neighbouring countries that are also running to join. Finally, some clarifications have been made regarding the implementation of the Stability of Growth Pact. Maybe some up-to-date information about what's in this document. I would just like to say that at the moment 12 EU Member States are in excessive deficit. Ecofin has already adopted a decision this year on the existence of a surplus deficit in the United Kingdom. Stronger measures have also been taken against Germany, which must address the surplus deficit by the end of 2007 with the new government. This year, too, the excessive deficit must be corrected by both Greece and Malta. I think these are the key things I wanted to explain today. I thank you for everything we've heard today. It will certainly also greatly enrich our approach to the responsible implementation of these tasks, which we have also undertaken as a Member State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to clarify a few points related to the debates in the Group's presentation block. First, let me say that it is not so easy to continue the debate or to strive for the European Constitution to be adopted, even though our persistence here will not fail. Although Slovenia has been making every effort to ensure that the process of acceptance of the Constitution runs smoothly. Unfortunately, what we all know has happened in France, the Constitution has stuck in the Netherlands. And despite the fact that we now have 14 or perhaps more countries that have adopted the Constitutional Treaty, the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, the process is in danger, the process of adopting the Constitution in the form envisaged is in danger. Nothing helps if we get upset or use hard words, we will have to compromise, and we will have to agree. This is how the EU works. I would like to point out that the situation is not hopeless. We are currently operating in the EU on the basis of the Nice Treaty and does not claim that the Nice Treaty contains only a system or rules of decision-making in the 25-nation stake, but the fact that this Treaty also provides for the participation of Bulgaria and Romania, so there is no danger of doing so. What we can worry about is how to proceed. At this point, as the Prime Minister said in the introduction, the European Union is mainly dealing with internal economic problems, with a financial perspective that we have also heard about, dealing with systemic and economic problems, with the employment and reform perspective, and so on, as discussed in the last European Council. As you know, we talked mainly about employment there, about six million or more million jobs in the European Union and so on. Until this debate is concluded, it will be difficult to discuss further enlargement and the future of the European Union. With regard to the future of the European Union and the future of the Constitution, I have already spoken on my own on the Foreign Policy Committee that it will be difficult to move ahead before the elections in France and the Netherlands. These elections will take place in 2007 and will then be chaired by Germany. Once these elections are behind us, this will be one day in May 2007 at the end of the German Presidency, at the start of the Portuguese Presidency, then a new constitutional debate may be initiated, and Slovenia may, as Member Horvat rightly stated, get this constitution into hand and into resolution, but of course I imagine that we will not be able to do it alone, but we will probably solve it together with anyone else, perhaps France, who is coming after us. With regard to the transitional periods, which Member Barovic also referred to, I would like to say that Slovenia has agreed to negotiate at a transitional period when it comes to employment or the free movement of labour. It is said that these transitional periods must not be for someone who is somewhat familiar with the European Union system, and what Slovenia has agreed on at the time of entry must not be a surprise. The fact is that we have a transitional period that is limited by number 7, but not by number 2, that this transitional period is divided into stages and that I now think that this summer, the first phase is running out and that there is a time when Member States can decide to remove the prohibitions or barriers to employment. Thus, it is known that the free movement between the new Member States and Ireland, Great Britain and Sweden is already in force, so we have free movement between the new Member States and these three countries, while Spain, Portugal and Finland have now joined these countries. These countries have officially announced that they will not impose restrictions on employment. There's some hope that something might move in with the Germans. We have heard predictions from Italy and, of course, we hope that there will be relaxation at points that are particularly interesting for Slovenia or for those who would like to work from Slovenia in neighbouring or neighbouring countries. But let us not have any illusions, the fact is that Slovenia has agreed to the transitional periods and that the decision on whether a country frees the free movement of labour is a national decision. I would also like to say what may have escaped in reviewing this material. The question of whether Slovenia will introduce the euro or not has long been resolved, of course it is not possible to decide here today, for which Slovenia has negotiated and to take over the euro, for which all the new Member States have committed themselves, and it is unlikely that this debate will make sense, is a meaningful discussion of when these countries will be able to take over the euro, so that with us, Slovenia, thanks to this country, its entire economy and all structures, of course, we have to say that we have succeeded something that no one else has ever succeeded in the new Member States. With regard to the question raised by my colleague, as regards the means for the operation of the European Union's convergence centre, I would like to explain to the European Union whether Mr Swickl will make an effort to review the budget, and will note that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has 150 million SIT provided for 2006 under heading 0.303 international development assistance, and I am hereby putting an end to my explanations. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Can I help you, Mr. Squeakle? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u28	Very briefly, the Minister will also know that it is well written there in explanation of this budget line, that it is an international development aid for all issues, and we have been able to provide additional assistance for this centre in the National Assembly. Slovenia committed to providing at least 240 million tolars in September 2004. Such international development assistance in all these years is about 150 million, but we have not provided any additional money.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I will refer to two questions from Mr Magi. Milan M. Squeakles. First of all, with regard to the takeover law, where there's an obvious, how and what's going on with it. I must say that the law is ready, it has been in the professional discussion for quite some time, and it has finally been made public. There is also a possible controversy with solutions and I would like to be happy at this time, because we want to make maximum quality text according to the dilemmas related to the acquisition, practice in Slovenia. So you can also expect this law in Parliament, according to the government's forecasts in the short term. Of course, I would be very happy to have a professional discussion on this subject in terms of creating effective and good solutions as soon as possible. As far as the Services Directive is concerned. I believe that when you work a lot, you don't read the material that's attached. This declaration also clearly defines Slovenia's position on the proposed Services Directive. The answers to these specific questions are also covered. I think that Slovenia's position on the Services Directive is relatively old, in fact, well over two years ago, and it was followed in accordance with the evolution of this directive. Slovenia supports the adoption of the Services Directive as soon as possible, as we believe that liberalisation in the field of services in the market of twenty-five represents an exceptional opportunity for economic growth, for new jobs in the framework of twenty-five. This is why Slovenia supports, in particular, the basic text, which, unfortunately, has been quite recently amended in the European Parliament. However, respect for the position of the European Parliament must be respected and it is therefore a very difficult task for the Commission to make a text in the spirit of Lisbon from the basic proposal, the basic concept of the Services Directive and then the amendments adopted. This will be a significant task and Slovenia has the same position here as it has: we support the Services Directive in the basic text, with the exception of health services, social services and gambling. These exceptions are extended by amendments. We believe that the extension of exceptions is not even as problematic as it is mainly the position on the principle of the country of origin. According to Slovenia's position, the principle of the country of origin is in fact a foundation, a key point of the directive itself, and we therefore consider that deleting this principle from the directive would be a major substantive loss for the purpose of the directive itself. Slovenia also supports provisions for the supervision of posted workers and effective administrative cooperation, as well as provisions to ensure that the directive is neutral with regard to workers' protection legislation. In short, I think that the last amendments of the European Parliament are going a little bit towards easing or, I would say, away from the relatively ambitious objective of the original proposal. Slovenia is therefore in the position to take these solutions into account as much as possible in the final text as possible in the final text, as well as in Parliament's presented and debated solutions related to the Services Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Katji Rejec Longar, Deputy Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like, first of all, to respond to Mr Ciccle's statement on the timing of the application of the declaration. In fact, the government has already adopted a declaration on February 2nd, and we have not been able to place it at a meeting of the National Assembly due to the overcrowded schedule of the National Assembly. Let me remind you that last year's declaration, last year for example, was dealt with in March and in 2004 even in May. So we don't deviate from established practice. The other thing I would like to refer to is the Presidency. In view of the fact that it has been mentioned several times in the debate, I would like to briefly explain what we have done so far in this area so that we do not, in fact, open up questions where they are not needed. Of course, we have followed the experience of all Member States that have found that the first presidency requires a three-year preparation period. That is why we started preparations for the presidency at the beginning of last year. First, we set up the organisational structure of the Presidency, we set up a narrower working group led by the Prime Minister and sets out the general guidelines, then a narrower working group appointed a wider working group led by the chairman of the WHO and coordinated the area of five working groups. These working groups, however, cover the substantive programme, staff, logistics, communication with the public and promotion and the budget. On the subject of substantive preparations. The question has been asked several times. A first review of the current contents was prepared. These are the content that is expected to be on the European Agenda in 2008. Among these topics, which are few, the working group has already identified a narrower set of topics to which we intend to give a little more emphasis. These are the future of the European Union and institutional development, enlargement and the Western Balkans, the policy of the new neighbourhood and energy and intercultural dialogue. Of course, we need to know that the priorities will change in line with what is happening in the European Union, so it is difficult to say that we will remain in this. We're keeping an eye on it. However, the final decision on this will only be taken before the start of the Presidency. Further, with regard to substantive preparations. We have prepared a draft calendar of main events. This calendar will be updated and coordinated on a regular basis in the light of all the obligations we will have as Chair State. The prerequisite for the implementation of the proposed substantive programme of the Presidency is a well-thought-out work plan. Further, about the content. We are preparing an 18-month Presidency programme with Germany and Portugal. Of course, we are also preparing to coordinate this programme with France and the other other group's chairing countries. As far as training is concerned, the government has adopted a human resources plan for the presidency. The recruitment process for the presidency of Ljubljana and abroad is already in the final stage. We are now preparing a training programme for the selected candidates. We will continue our efforts in logistics this year. The government has therefore adopted a decision on the construction of a new conference centre in Brdo, which is urgently needed for the smooth implementation of informal meetings and meetings. Then we also pay attention to other aspects of logistics, namely the organisation of events, transports, security, document management, technical and information support, translation and so on, not to mention. Slovenia will also pay particular attention in 2006 to communication with the public and prepare in the field of promotion, because we are aware of the opportunity offered by the Presidency. We have therefore also drawn up a proposal for general promotion and cultural activities for the objectives of effective promotion of Slovenia during the Presidency, and this proposal is already in the final stage of coordination. As far as the Presidency is concerned, we are active in all areas, and in this way we will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Allow me to try to answer a few questions concerning employment, the free movement of workers and other areas relating to the provision of social security in the light of the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. Let me complement the response of the distinguished colleague of Mr Rupl, the Foreign Minister, that intensive work has taken place in the sense of ensuring free movement by Slovenia. We had different bilateral, quadrilateral interviews, then special meetings of ministers from the Danube region. In short, we have all tried to ensure this value of free movement of workers, but of course in the Member States this assessment is in their hands. According to our data, three countries are expected to open up, in addition to Ireland, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Finland, Spain and Portugal, perhaps another country, because there is still time to make a decision. We have prepared a joint employment report and guidance has also been drawn up for the next period on the basis of this joint report. We are pleased that in the field of the labour market and social security in Slovenia we are implementing reforms in terms of social justice of the renewed social model, which is also a good way for the common European policy. The Working Time Directive will also require greater coordination with the social partners, i.e. the harmonisation of this Directive has been taking place for almost two years at European level, despite the cooperation of the social partners at European level. I would point out the portability of entitlements from supplementary pension insurance, which is also a directive to guarantee rights, irrespective of the level of riskivity in the European Union, also additional pension insurance. Here is a series of open issues on which Slovenia has taken initiatives. However, I intend to include the National Assembly in order to form positions. Coordination of social security systems will be a regulation this year for the implementation of the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems. This is a large and substantively demanding set, and we will complement our positions in terms of updating and simplifying the rules currently in force, social protection and an open method of coordination in the course of coordination. This is a joint report on social protection and social inclusion and on the basis of this preparation of national protection for social protection and social inclusion. This is the task of all members until autumn 2006. Slovenia will prepare a report, formulate its objectives and anticipate measures in the field of social protection, poverty eradication, greater social integration, emphasis on social services, we also foresee health and long-term care and sustainable and decent pension systems here. In particular, I would like to highlight demographic change and population ageing, which the Slovenian side has highlighted in particular within the European institutions. This is a common and general problem where we have introduced our proposal under the European Working Time Directive, the Slovenian proposal on the need to harmonise work and family life, and also individual measures that will lead to this. One last point I'd like to move. Slovenia officially applied for a European Institute for Gender Equality to be an institution in the Republic of Slovenia, the official announcement of the candidacy was on 1 June 2005, where, as Minister, I submitted a letter to the Luxembourg colleague as representative of the Presidency of the European Union, an oral announcement on 2 June in the Employment Council, then we prepared a series of promotional actions, including diplomatic representations in June 2005, the creation of promotional material, the printing of a colour newspaper, now I intend to call on the European Ambassadors of the States to further promote and justify our role for this institution, which is established in the Republic of Slovenia. We have delivered to all Members a newspaper in plenary session and a number of other activities. We think we are in a certain position, but a number of activities will need to be taken in order to achieve this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Minister Podobnik also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. I would just like to highlight some of Slovenia's environmental priorities, all of which are in line with the 6th Environment Action Programme and have been addressed and also confirmed in the National Environmental Protection Programme, which was unanimously adopted in this House. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to point out some of those that are particularly relevant to Slovenia. The first is the consideration of new proposals for legislation on flood prevention, water management. The European Union has also decided and faced this issue, in particular in those watercourses linked by several European Union countries, and here Slovenia can be actively involved. The second area is the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of groundwater. Our view is that the concept of this directive, which protects groundwater from pollution and seeks to harmonise national monitoring of groundwater chemical conditions within the framework of individual hydrogeological monitoring programmes, is correct and will also be supported, then one very concrete thing that touches on many of our citizens and citizens is the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on batteries and accumulators as well as waste batteries and accumulators. Slovenia will support this. It is true that there is no production of nickel cadmium batteries in Slovenia, but importers are aware of this possibility that cadmium will be partially banned. The content of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Financial Instrument for the Environment Life Plus is a very important regulation, which I am also partly afraid of as Minister of Environment and Space. I fear him in this sense when the European Parliament adopts a new financial perspective, so that it would not happen by chance that this financial instrument would be a partial compromise proposal if there were any financial problems elsewhere. For Slovenia, which has the largest percentage of its territory in the Natura 2000 network in percentage terms, it is very important that this good financial instrument for the environment be implemented within the new financial perspective at the level and with such a concept as is currently proposed. And one more point. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provisions of the Aarhus Convention also in the European institutions and bodies of the EU, I hope that the State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia fully comply with the elements of the Aarhus Convention. Slovenia, however, follows from the fact that the implementation of the Aarhus Convention will also represent a major shift towards better involvement of NGOs and the rest of the public in environmental decision-making processes in the Brussels institutions. That is why we will also support such a regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u37	Mr Milenko Ziherl, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We accept the Declaration in the second year of our EU membership. This means that we have gained some experience and created a certain reputation in these institutions. At that time, we also note that, towards the end of last year, trust in the EU institution has reached its lowest point and is now slightly improving. I see great opportunities for Slovenia in this regard. As was pointed out during Mr Barroso's visit, not only what the EU can do for Slovenia, but also what Slovenia can do for the EU. The tasks in both directions are covered by the declarations. Above all, I see opportunities in the Presidency and preparations for it. During our presidency, major tasks may be opened up, namely the relaunch of the ratification of constitutional treaties, the continuation of the EU enlargement to the Western Balkan countries. The enlargement just so far may have been one of the reasons for the collapse of the EU's trust and institution. The terrorist events, the political killings and the mistrust of the 10 new members, which proved groundless, have caused this minor crisis in the EU, for the Union itself, as Mr Minister has already said, is somewhere in the middle of the road and is still being formed. We must be aware that the old Member States were very skeptical when 8 new countries were coming behind the former Iron Curtain, where a different economic system, different rights and freedoms, a different way of life was in force. All these scepticisms have proved groundless, for all eight countries have had decades and more democratic traditions. Enlargement to the Western Balkans, which Slovenia is committed to, certainly, with a view to bringing peace and stability to this area. Slovenia is already actively helping in this regard, as it is this spring that they are often coming for advice on the basis of our experience of the European Parliament delegation. The scepticism expressed about the success of our presidency seems unfounded to me, as Slovenia has successfully chaired the OSCE and in Slovenia there have been some international events, for example, two visits to the pope and, above all, a very resounding first meeting of Bush and Putin, when they were breaking the ice and for the first time saw themselves in their new role or position. All these successful international events convince me that our presidency will be a success. Perhaps from some very extreme parties from Brussels comes doubts, which are also welcome in the halls of our Parliament, but generally speaking, I think Slovenia enjoys confidence. I would also stress the Lisbon Strategy, as a new approach and a new impetus, a more precise definition of certain objectives, annual reporting and reliance on national parliaments give Member States and thus Slovenia the opportunity to make investments in R & D and in young people especially care for this generation, which in fact we are lacking in Europe - young people who are already too young, are poorly taken care of, as the latest events in France show. The declaration, so the Lisbon strategy shows one of the solutions. The adoption of the euro, the establishment of the Schengen border or the inclusion in the single Schengen area is then before Slovenia. All of these events, or all of these activities, will ensure that Slovenia receives something from the European Union as well. Above all, we need to prepare ourselves at home for the favourable results of the negotiations on the next financial perspective so that we know how to use these funds so that they do not eventually happen to go hungry from the full table. I would like to mention perhaps the unjustified insistence of some colleagues last year when they wanted us to commit the government to adopt a Luxembourg proposal that was not as favourable as the United Kingdom's proposal, after which we were likely to get the maximum, was later negotiated, and the bigger question is how we will prepare to draw on these funds. So, I support the declaration in all respects and will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u39	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members. I will not repeat what I have been able to say on both working bodies, but I would like to conclude that it is a priority to adopt an amendment which, however, gives the national assembly a slightly greater competence in the implementation of the declaration, which is finally in the interest of the national assembly, since the role of national parliaments is more important between the institutions of the European Union and the talks on greater democratisation. If I think about Slovenia as active partners in the European Union, of course my assessment of Slovenia's readiness to chair stems from the individual concerns that I receive from those who run an appropriate professional education for individual functions during the Presidency, and their candidacy is rejected, but at some other international competitions they can prove and confirm their respective professional competence. I would like to touch the euro's takeover. When we ratified the Treaty of Constitution for Europe in Slovenia, we agreed to the euro currency entry. At that time, we did not apply the possibility, as did Latvia and Hungary, to make any reservations about the currency. Now what is, and we have to agree that the currency is recorded in the first slope of the unit on banknotes as it is for a large majority, although it is impossible to reconcile between 100 euros because the law of the Slovenian language does not speak that way. It is true, however, that we do not know the case of a State or a financial institution deciding on the rules of law. In this case, in the case of the euro, I cannot agree to such a fact by myself as a graduate professor of Slovenian, because it is an infringement of a standard which is inherent in this language, but I can say at least that it would be expected that, at least in the domestic area and where we can apply our spelling rules, we will consistently use the record as it is in Slovenian spelling, this is the Euro entry with all the relevant inclinations and with all the relevant derivatives. When I recently spent a little more time looking at the exhibitions and reviewing the currency records in our exhibitions, I found that the vast majority decided either on the € symbol or on the entry in the Euro exchange rate, but I also found such a record-eu, which is nothing, it is not a currency. In the context of raising awareness among citizens and citizens of Slovenia, much more effort will have to be made to find ourselves in this confusion, which we have agreed to have a higher level, which is financial, and it is written there, as it says in Europe, for domestic use, for us - ordinary mortals - it is good enough to write in our spelling. I would like to point out that the establishment of the European Institute for Gender Equality, where 362 MEPs and Members of the European Parliament voted in favour and 263 against, of the seven Slovenian Members and Members, three Members and Borut Pahor voted in favour, two of them voted against and one abstained, which means that the joy that I feel when we finally realize that it is a good idea to run for office in Slovenia, is significantly smaller, because if we can not even get a seat in Slovenia, it is difficult to believe that we will lobby very well for the appointment of a seat in Slovenia. And let me finally touch another problem that doesn't seem irrelevant to me. It really seems to me that we have given a lot of attention to our efforts when it comes to repressive issues when it comes to asylum policy when it comes to the Schengen border, to human rights. We are a little more modest there, and we did not even know how to take it from the European Union, even though we have taken on a number of things in order to start, say, a debate on the protection of personal data of individuals and the issue of the free flow of data. Here I should only mention my dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' response. He supported the written answer to my December oral question, namely, Minister Rupel. I asked about the secret prisons, and they answered me about the mysterious ones and taught me about what Slovenia had done. I would like to say that I imagine if I was previously told that human rights are not self-evident for the new members of the European Union to receive from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs what Slovenia intends to do whenever human rights and security are at stake. However, I do not have to answer with the writings of various publications, because I finally read this publication sent to them by Minister Rupel when he was the President of the OSCE, and it also states that the OSCE is also observing trials and detentions, among other things, and so it was when I asked about the secret locations of prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Nice greetings from all the ministers, secretary of state, co-workers, co-workers! The next or the next one has the word Master Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! No doubt today we are considering an important document, a proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. Here, at the beginning of this proposal for a declaration is very much so, I would say, as some kind of preamble is written, aware of the role and importance of the mission of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the European Union, the Union is preparing for the presidency, the takeover of the euro and so on. I think the last one, I take over the euro, is going pretty well for the Slovenian government. As far as preparing for the presidency is concerned, I think it is a big deal for the Slovenian country as well, and Slovenia already has a number of such international endeavors, if I say so where we have been successful. And the Presidency is in fact a great deal, both in logistical terms and in infrastructure, and especially in substantive matters. And in this proposal for a declaration, I took a closer look at the 13th point, the common agricultural policy and fisheries, and here I would say that I did not have anything to follow. In particular, when it is stated that the priorities of the European Union are listed, when the priorities outlined by the European Council and the European Commission are in fact summarised, the parts that follow, which are Slovenia's priorities, and I see them here mainly as a summary of some of the paragraphs of the European Union's priorities, I miss absolute content, Slovenian content. Actually, it's not, or it's in some kind of clue. So what are the plans of Slovenian agricultural policy, both in the Presidency and in the coming year or this year in which we are. Interestingly, here attention is paid to some things, such as bananas, flax, hemp, which are of no value to us. Of course, as a full member, Slovenia must also have the answers to such questions. However, there is no talk of livestock farming, agriculture and these issues that are vital to Slovenian agriculture. We know that Slovenian agriculture, as it has entered the common European agricultural area, is very incompatible with European agriculture. Our structure of agriculture, both in its own and structural sense, in its own, age and educational sense, is completely incompatible with the European Fifteen. And here I miss this aspect of what the Slovenian government thinks, how, even during the Presidency and as members of the European Union, we will draw closer to this structure. Four times the gross domestic product in the field of agriculture is in our possession of twenty-five. This is worrying information and there is no solution here. Forestry in the Slovenian space is also important. 60% of Slovenia's land is forested and forestry is undoubtedly an important economic sector. And it is written below Slovenia's priorities: "Slovenia is an extremely forested country, so any development in forestry is very important to us." That's for me, and probably not enough for a lot of people in this room. Of course, I will support this declaration, but I expect that there will be reasoned substantive proposals in this area. In fact, we have the potential of experts, both at the faculties, at the agricultural institute, at the ministry, at the agricultural market agency, at the agri-agricultural chamber, and we should therefore find a solution in this round to make Slovenian agriculture at some point at least more comparable to European agriculture. The next thing, colleagues and colleagues, which I did not see in this proposal for a declaration, but I think it should also be written down, is the issue of protecting indigenous minorities. I do not know if I have overlooked, please warn me, but Slovenia is undoubtedly an easy model for dealing with these issues. And it is right that, as future president, he should also draw attention to these issues and write down a statement in the declaration concerning the protection of indigenous minorities in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Following the European Union's previous summit and the agreement on the creation of a new common energy policy, it might suggest a slight update of the text of point 9.2 which speaks about this, if not the other, because of the fact that it will be evident that the Slovenian efforts, which we have written down nicely in the chapter of our priorities, are in favour of finding a fertile territory. In the priorities of the European Union, there is no mention of the European energy policy in the dictatorship that they used at the summit unless, of course, the appearance is limping. The editorial note is more about an introduction to a topic that concerns some of the other chapters of our work in the institutions of the European Union, which is very disturbing to the public these days. We are talking about this document, the common energy policy, the common maritime transport policy and the common policy for the protection and preservation of the marine environment, and when we do so, we cannot help but think about the project, otherwise at the idyllic stage, the two gas terminals in the Gulf of Market just off the border, which is irrelevant when it comes to the extent to which the impact travels, as we know, through water or air, which do not speak in favour of the almost sacred rule of working together in the European Union and, in particular, to the international conventions, so that neighbours can hear and consult on the questionable intervention in the common space. The derogation from this rule understandably disturbs at least a little environmental awareness, both on the Italian side of the border and on ours. It is true that no formal and final decision has yet fallen on this issue, but when it comes to big business interests, when they are in the game of hundreds of millions of euros, it can happen overnight and there is no cancellation. Yesterday's statements by the Prime Minister of Furlania and the Julian Province of Riccard Illy make it clear that the project is already quite well-in place, so it is imperative that all those called be given preliminary action to return to the above-mentioned rule as soon as possible and to prevent this body from being really dangerous, as many warn, and I believe so myself, East. It is commendable that our Foreign Minister, Dr. Rupel, met with Mr. Illy yesterday and asked him about this story. But it is not clear from the media how much he warned him not to do so, that it is necessary to submit together to improve energy capacities in the northern Adriatic and to assess their environmental impacts, or ask the minister: "Is it an interlocutor who, as we read, is talking about the realization of terminals of messages that our consent may not be, and if so, what will happen then?" We are trying to reach President Illy ourselves with our colleague Pecan and colleague Pavli, so that we can tell him. Therefore, when we talk about guidelines for our action within the European Union, let us also say that agility, dynamism, momentum, clarity and consistency are still important. All for free to announce, colleagues and colleagues, some ecological and fishing zones, because by the way we do not hope to influence ourselves if we do not react as we do to actions that may seriously endanger their meaning. So much for this, or I'll support the declaration. But it is also right to find and get appropriate answers to the questions I have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My word to Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, ministers and representatives of the government! I'm trying to be very specific. First, I'd like to say a few words about the declaration itself. This applies to orientations, targets. These objectives are, on the one hand, general enough to be acceptable to all, while being too specific to identify the different options and options for Slovenia's operations in the European Union. They're self-evident and obvious, and they're kind of hard to miss. Not like the biatlons who have to run a few miles and then shoot a small target. There's a big target here, and even if we hit another target, we wouldn't have made a lot of mistakes. In short, a document that is attractive, which can be adopted precisely because no adult subject really begins. The other is about priorities. In my view, however, this document is, on the contrary, first, too extensive, and in my view, it is also a noticeable approach that everything is in there. The approach to copying paste from other documents is observed and individual chapters are processed at different levels of specificity, which clearly illustrates the different degree of competence of individual ministers. In this part of the document, some parts are really good, you could say important, some added value, but something is, you could say, the things collected from all sides and, as I said, results in what it is. On a concrete level, I will try to talk about three things. For a while. First of all, on sustainable development, which is one of the major themes in Europe, including in this programme. Slovenia, as it says, supports the European Union's efforts to revise the sustainable development strategy, but it does not itself have such a strategy. The official explanation is that Slovenia does not need such a strategy because it has a strategy for the development of Slovenia, which also has a possible sustainable component. Partly, but only part of it's true. The elements of sustainable development are not sufficiently well worked out in this strategy, and it would be appropriate for Slovenia to draw up a shorter document, strategy or policy where slightly more precise sustainable development mechanisms would also be developed by monitoring in accordance with the indicators it has in this area. We also do not know what is going on with the former Sustainable Development Council. I'm asking a little malice: Has the neoclassical economy eaten it? The second question I'm interested in is the information society. The Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs correctly took the views expressed there. The information society has multiple faces. We usually stress this democratic and productive role of the information society, information technologies, services and so on. All of this contributes to greater democracy, contributes to greater productivity and similar things. She also has a different face, depressed and controlling. And this one is more at the forefront than this first one, and of course I'm worried about that. You will not really find the information society in the section of the priorities in the field, under the theme of the information society. It's only written down a little. You will find the information society most in the segments dealing with internal security and similar matters. So in the control segment where it comes to monitoring, where new information technologies are used to revive individual freedom. And that's the last point I want to start. I would like to remind you that when the European Union was still ideal for us, when we were in the old country, it seemed to us that this is where we wanted to go and we have to work to get there. And here we are. And the paradox that has happened to us today is that ministers and other senior officials in Parliament are explaining to us how this or these laws should be adopted in order to harmonise themselves with the European Union, while this law reduces the level of freedoms and rights. Last one, for me, an unheard case is the law on police. Such a Europe and such a manoeuvre to prove to us through the European acquis that we must become less liberal, less free, more restrictive and so on, such a Europe I cannot imagine, nor can I really imagine. Europe is an alibi here for some other objectives, and this needs to be made clear. Finally, I would like to say this: I would like to make a correction, however, to a respected colleague, or representative or deputy director of the European Affairs Service. Indeed, last year this declaration was adopted in March, the year before last 2004, was adopted in May. But Slovenia entered the European Union on 1 May 2004 and could not be accepted sooner than that date, it was adopted less than a month later. This year and last year, these documents were received late and I am counting on the government to know this and to prepare for the second time to adopt these documents earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to draw attention to some paradox we have witnessed in Slovenia during the last period. Once, for example, when we were drafting a new Slovenian Constitution in 1990, 1991, we always referred to the way in which human rights and fundamental freedoms were protected in Europe and that we also wanted to establish these high standards. For example, we had already incorporated into the Constitution and immediately thereafter into the laws safeguards and standards in the field of human rights, as laid down by the European Convention on Human Rights and, for example, the European Social Charter, although Slovenia was not then a member of the Council of Europe, which it became in 1993. In short, Europe was then a symbol of freedom and a symbol of high standards in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. But today, strange things happen, to say the least. To avoid misinterpretation, Europe is still an area of freedom and respect for human rights. It is in Europe that every day it is stressed that, for example, security and the fight against terrorism are not allowed to interfere with human rights. If, then, only temporarily, to a very limited extent, only in certain human rights and fundamental freedoms and under certain urgent supervision by the competent authorities and with appropriate judicial protection. However, our government is constantly coming to the National Assembly with unusual legal proposals under a password, so that we are asked to do so by Europe, in particular, by directives on common minimum standards in the field of asylum policy, on procedures for persons without citizenship, or on the granting or withdrawal of refugee status. These marriage proposals have consistently and persistently revived the field of freedom in our country. Under the pretext that the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement requires us to do so, the Ministry of the Interior has tried to impose unheard-of provisions that would give legal basis and make it easy to covertly monitor and monitor persons who intend to commit extremely serious crimes, with the Minister citing, we have witnessed this yesterday, to Article 99 of the Schengen Convention, and when we read carefully this Article of the Schengen Agreement, the matter is significantly different. Article 99 contains a series of restrictions and conditions for such action, for example, that there must already be concrete evidence that a specific person is planning or already committing a number of very serious crimes, or that a particular person may be expected to commit extremely serious crimes in the future due to his past crimes. Further, such action shall be admissible only if this is permitted by national legislation on the basis of the request and approval of the competent authorities and where there is concrete evidence that such information is necessary to prevent a significant threat or other significant threat to the internal or external security of the State. But not to complicate our lives and put ourselves on the path of a difficult obstacle to the possibility of human rights. Our government will rather adapt national legislation to the extent that it is easy and permissible to interfere with human rights in order to respect only common minimum standards, even though we have already had significantly higher standards in practice in Slovenia. And there is no fear that such covert observation and surveillance would be directed primarily towards its own citizens, possibly politically incompatible. I must say that such behaviour is unacceptable, that it is non-European and that it is essentially a reference to Europe for abuse and good cases, and we have talked today about how we should not work in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, respectable choir! The declaration is an important document at strategic level and therefore normally all details cannot be included in this declaration. However, these declarations are essential and necessary guidance for those measures and procedures of our country within the EU, which are crucial in the exercise of our interests. Allow me to place particular emphasis on Chapter 13, this is the common agricultural policy and fisheries, and from this chapter underlines the need to continue our efforts to simplify the common agricultural policy. This is a good and useful framework, which is particularly needed for our specific conditions of farming, fragmentation, small farms, rural vulnerability, will only find a response to development as soon as possible and as consistently as possible to implement simplifications within the framework of the common agricultural policy. From this point of view, I would also like to stress the need for a decision to be taken as soon as possible on reform or on the way in which the common agricultural policy is implemented or under the first pillar. I think it is essential to do this as soon as possible so that the sector can prepare for the changes that are necessary. If I also stress the correctness of our country's action and action in decision-making on sugar policy and the fact that sugar policy needs to be fixed as soon as possible and implemented, I would support the Ministry of Agriculture's efforts in a direction that indicates that our sugar factory is being diverted almost as far as possible to the production of other comparable alternative sources of energy, which can be a significant contribution and a significant shift in this area. However, the efforts aimed at getting support from those who have grown sugar beet, I think they are also the right ones and they are going in the right direction. Due to the great surpluses and difficulties in the wine market, proper support and direction is also in the direction that is written down and which is going into a reform of the wine-making policy in Europe. Well, it certainly takes a day to focus on organic agriculture, and in this regard I draw attention to the thin border and the edge on which our actions are moving and also on which our agricultural policy is related to genetically modified organisms and to all the rules that Europe is applying in this area. I think that there is more to be said and more to be consistent with the implementation of renewable energy measures. Here Slovenia has the largest resources, the largest reserves. Given the natural growth, given Slovenia's forestivity and the non-exploitation of this natural growth, this is undoubtedly the largest reserve in terms of the implementation of environmental policy objectives. That is why I think that the declaration contains some important objectives in the field of forestry. And I hope to say that we expect our country's policy of action within the framework of the European Union to be even more ambitious in the declarations of the coming years in this area. I also believe that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will continue to work well with the authorities of the European Union to prevent the spread of the threat posed by avian influenza and that efforts will also be made in this area to ensure fair and necessary compensation for the farmers who have been or will be affected by measures to prevent this threat. I think that this is also one of the key tasks in addressing this pressing and important area of food security and human security. I will certainly support this declaration and reiterate my conviction that it is a good basis for the functioning of our institutions within the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Thank you very much and very much to the ministers, who not only show their physical presence in the Chamber but also show that this act is important for Slovenia, but they can serve Members immediately with concrete answers. I'm only sorry for half a minute. I would like to refer my debate in this part to the area of agriculture. It is a beautiful, multifaceted framework of the European Union, but it seems to me that we have given little attention to what this picture will be like, Slovenian, within or within this mosaic. I am sure that even in Slovenia we will not be able to achieve this in order to make apples or potatoes [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] twice a year, but in these expectations we must be more patient and more realistic and more concerned with Slovenian milk and meat than with bananas, which [[...]] [[...]] [[Dig up the mic.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Next up is Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear ministers, representatives and representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In its deliberations on the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006, the European Union itself would focus on one topic, which is certainly very important for Slovenia as a single country and Slovenia as a member of the European Union. I am here talking about research and development and education. Slovenia's task in the field of development and research is primarily to complement this area. Then bring closer to all those goals that would lead to better results, to increased quality research and to a greater establishment of so-called technology parks or technology centres, which certainly enable a greater link between the economy and science. Here, however, it must be borne in mind that successful innovation also depends on an appropriate support system that allows the transfer of new technologies and knowledge to the economy. Innovation support and guidance from the State is also necessary because we are a member of the European Union, where we need to be able to adapt to highly developed market economies. Therefore, new high value-added activities and production require a larger number of innovation centres. Slovenia's key role in the European Union's research world is, in particular, active participation in the process of adopting the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Development. Slovenia may also have a slight advantage here, as it is very much and very well involved with the European Commissioner for Science, Dr. Janez Potočnik, of course he is very well aware of the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology on the issue of research and development. Slovenia also supports the proposal to double research and development funds in the 7th Framework Programme and is committed to simplifying administrative procedures, which unfortunately do not allow the various project managers to conclude contracts quickly and easily. As a result, this represents poorer conditions within the framework of R & D. As for education and training. Of course, we can read in the declaration that, in addition to lifelong learning, after vocational education and training, and increasing the quality of efficiency and efficiency of education, the European Union and, therefore, Slovenia continue to be a priority for the achievement of the objectives of the Bologna process, which, on the one hand, retains this personal note of the higher education system of individual Member States within the European Union, while at the same time trying to create a common higher education space that will, of course, allow for greater flow of information, then also greater mobility of students and ultimately, most importantly, within the Bologna process, comparability of study programmes within the Member States of the European Union. In 2006, Slovenia intends or is already actively involved in activities that will contribute to the creation of the European Higher Education Area, so Slovenia will participate in the mutual learning activities of higher education in the context of the education and training process 2010 and will also contribute to the creation of the European Qualifications Framework. I believe that the declaration we have today is an important document, as it shows the main points in general, and in particular the guidelines for action and priorities in the various areas important for the development of the European Union and of course its members, which are part of the European Union, and I therefore support this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. During this time, we were joined by visitors on the Tribunal, whom I welcome very much in the Slovenian Parliament. We continue the debate. I give my word to Mrs. Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected government, Members and Members of Parliament. There are fewer of us, and visitors have joined us, including their beautiful greetings. I will touch only one area, this is agriculture, where it says that the European Union will stand for competitive, innovative, sustainable agriculture. Slovenia has always followed it loyally in this area, although it is under significantly more difficult farming conditions than in general in the European Union. The priorities for both the European Union and Slovenia are listed, organic farming, enlargement and special emphasis are given to it. On the other hand, mention is made of genetically modified organisms, in particular the requirement which Slovenia has to regulate this year, namely the coexistence of genetically modified organisms and, in essence, co-existing with organic and conventional farming. Unfortunately, this area of Slovenia has not yet been regulated, and it is likely that it will be interesting and difficult to arrange this co-existence. It will be really interesting to see how they will coexist in one field of genetically modified organisms and, on the other hand, organic farming, precisely because Slovenia is extremely small, it will probably be extremely difficult to manage. On the other hand, genetically modified organisms are no fun in Slovenia, but every day we meet them in food, as well as more or less in all imported feed, which we import mainly from the European Union as well as from elsewhere. I am particularly pleased in this declaration with the area, or one paragraph, where it says that we will simplify administrative procedures and also reduce administrative procedures, some Members find this ridiculous, but we have been doing this for quite some time in agriculture, because we know that a number of procedures and regulations are extremely complicated, which makes it difficult and also prevents Slovenian agriculture, which has remained or complementary activities on farms, from developing precisely due to highly pooled procedures and non-life rules. We believe that we must put these rules into life and adapt them to our situation, so I hope that something will slip out of this regulation from this paragraph. There is also a reform of the fruit and vegetables market as well as wine market, and to this end we have proposed the establishment of a wine-growing council that can play an important role in this area, including in the field of bureaucracy or non-life laws, today, winemakers face a major problem in the field of income as well. We will support the declaration in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Kokalj has the next word. Mr. Bones. Yeah. There's no more time. Apparently there are no others, and there is no more time, so I give my word on behalf of the government to Dr. Rupl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are obviously at the end of this interesting and useful debate. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have participated in the preparation or consideration of the material. I think that there have been some significant improvements in the material and we have been paying attention to some aspects that are extremely important. In short, I would like to thank the Government, on behalf of the Government, for its creative participation in the National Assembly and its working bodies in the adoption of this declaration. We want a similar, perhaps even if possible, better cooperation, closer cooperation, especially when it comes to involving the National Assembly in the preparations for the Presidency of the European Union. When it comes to the individual comments I have just heard, I would say the following. This country, if you look at the Constitution and look at the history of the origin of this country, is actually established on some intense and comprehensive concern for human rights. I remember, when we made the first drafts of the Constitution, I regret that Mrs Beblereva is not among us when we were working on the first draft of this constitution, we were particularly concerned that special attention was given to human rights, and I think that we did not distance ourselves from those orientations at the beginning of our country, on the contrary, I think we were jealously concerned that human rights remain the foundation of this country and the statehood of Slovenia. In the course of this debate, I went to look quickly at what was the subject of the debate or what this declaration was talking about under the chapter of the area of freedom of security and justice. This is border control, our border is the external border of the European Union, and it is logical that our country is dealing with the issue of border control, and it is probably not possible to give up on some of the fundamental requirements imposed by the European Union in our country as a defender, so to speak, by the external borders. This is the problem with the Schengen area. This is a visa policy issue. We in our ministry and government have adopted a series of guidelines and regulations and laws to facilitate travel to strategic groups, such as the Western Balkans. We in the European Union, because otherwise we cannot, are fighting for the release of a visa or opportunity to travel young people, businessmen and so on from this area, which has been so long since injustice, that I say, or foolishly removed from European life. In short, I do not believe that anything essential can be corrected in this chapter. Let me also say this: today we are talking about a declaration, and I cannot explain to my colleague Yuri what I spoke to President Illy yesterday, but I will talk about it at the next Foreign Policy Committee meeting. In the meantime, I hope that there will be no new situation. [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Once again, I thank all of you together and expect, on behalf of the Government, majority support in this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I had previously overlooked that instead of Mr. Tank, he was a magician. What I'm asking him is, do you want to discuss it now? Please, I can. Anyway, we'll share the rest of the time, but the word is yours, because you still have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members! The debate on the declaration, at least mine, will not be in the style that I will also talk about everything where my shoe stings, and given the framework of the declaration that talks about guidelines and nothing else, I will not use various sarcastic, professional terms, such as the example of the debater I have been following. I will try to be encouraging and constructively critical with the desire that this year's and future Slovenian and European actions be geared towards progress and, above all, towards a pan-European solution. The Declaration on Guidelines and more in the institutions is necessarily embedded in the principles of declarations, directives and other EU documents and, of course, also in our related, domestic ones. However, as with other similar documents, it will be a decisive implementation. In Europe, in particular, the adoption of trans-European legislation and projects in support of strategies now called "Employment and growth", Lisbon, Bologna and similar strategies in the event of a failure of previous ones. I believe that the declaration, which I will support, is ultimately the main purpose of the declaration, is to encourage all actors to act in accordance with these guidelines, which are only the highlight of all the objectives and intentions and wishes and policies that are to be realized this year or in the future. More or less, the EU and Slovenia are aware of their challenges and circumstances. This is evident from the Commission documents and all accompanying democratic institutions, all the way to Parliament. However, Europe's problem is in a coordinated broader adoption of measures and their implementation. In fact, we still act as pretty selfish national states here, which we often agree on under some compulsion, not least because of fierce competition in this global world. I believe that three aspects, which are very important in this declaration, have been processed, but of course I hope that the implementation itself will be successful. The first is a developing and sustainable social state, which is looked for in some European social model and tradition, which is not uniform, thank God, and is typically different from many similar things in Europe. But a competitively trained social and cultural Europe is what we are looking for. Of course not, everyone wants a competitive, global competitiveness of Europe, while at the same time trying to retain all aspects of the social and cultural state or Europe, which we understand very differently again. But because of the so-called competitive competence or Lisbon Europe, the situation in Europe, and especially in Slovenia, which is at a lower level here, will need to change with comprehensive and fundamental reforms. Slovenia, and in the declaration as appropriate, in a geostrategic sense has an extremely favourable position on the edge of the Western Balkans of this entire South-Eastern Europe. The advantage that we are already members of the European Union and that we will be among the first to enter the euro area should indeed be taken full advantage of in the former Yugoslavia or South-East Europe, but we can also talk about more remote regions, such as the former Soviet republics, Central Asia and Eastern Europe. I believe that Slovenia, with a number of positive examples of good practices, should somehow promote and defend pan-European projects, because it is in this area that Europe is significantly behind the most competitive countries, which are in economic and political terms much more united and also otherwise organised, for example, the United States of America, China, Japan, Asia. Europe is also an ever-increasing continent of regional and local authorities, which are expected to increasingly outweigh the importance of national countries whose national, political, economic and economic interests are diminishing and somehow preventing pan-European solutions. Slovenia must take advantage of its equality, namely, the weight which it has as an equal member of the European Union, and on the basis of this formal status with its professional and realistic projects and proposals to lead an appropriate initiative. For example, the Institute for Gender Equality should not be the highlight of our commitment to the acquisition of important European institutions. These European institutions, which are of a research, technological, economic or social nature, are essential and it would be more appropriate to advocate one or more similar institutions. But I will reiterate the proposal I made on one of the committees. Specifically, Slovenia could encourage an initiative to ensure that the system or the philosophy of patenting in Europe is somehow established in the world or that the philosophy of patenting is somehow harmonised and unified in this connected global world. It is unacceptable that there are so many different approaches here, according to some estimates, they can even lead to more mutual contradictions if I can express myself so nicely. The failure of the software patenting directive in such an infamous way is only one of the indications of this matter. I have recently received a very strange opinion from our citizen who works in the European Patent Office on how the European Patent Office is already patenting software, despite what we have said in Europe, we will not patent software in any way as such. I'm afraid the patent office is working against it. Another such important opportunity is that Slovenia, given that there are a number of research and also successful laboratory systems that operate, could be Europe and would attempt to introduce pan-European solutions to the management of facilities in space. One such concrete solution that Europe is looking for is electronic tolling in free traffic. I have generalised the term, the technology itself and the solution, of course, allowing monitoring of any facilities in the space, and finally Europe, with investments in the Galileo satellite system, wants to acquire 150 000 jobs. This can only be done in a way that develops appropriate applications and appropriate systemic solutions. That's it. I'll support the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask you whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Yuri has already applied. Anyone else? So you signed up for Mr. Jury and Master Saiovic, each of you has five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be brief. Let me say again that I will, of course, support the declaration. There was no doubt about that in my debate. With regard to my warnings and questions to which Minister Rupel has not answered and has announced that he will only answer to the Committee on Foreign Policy. It is a matter of telling ourselves how we must act within the institutions of the European Union, even if our partners act in a way that can jeopardize our interests as much as possible indirectly, openly and consistently. Now, this story with these two gas terminals, which is clearly evolving rapidly, we experienced the meeting of Minister Podobnik with Ambassador Vergo, the message was then that it was still in the air, just an idea that is being verified. Yesterday we will be informed by the President of the Government of Furlania and the country of July that the terminals will be built, we will be informed in good time, and environmental protection standards will also be respected. The public is not at peace with this, but by our government there is some ease. I've also worked with my friend Illy for years, so I'm trying to get to him so that I can tell him that what he's saying isn't so soothing and it would seem to be deeper to face this topic. But if the government does not react in time - and within the Union needs to be reacted in time - things can break down. I also expect the Foreign Policy Committee to meet as soon as possible to find out the contents of this discussion. However, so that we do not find out what was going on in this conversation after the project of both terminals has already been adopted. The matter is serious, affected public, environmentalists, certain parties - tomorrow's is a broader thematic conference in Cyprus on this subject, which is invited by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Environment and Members of Parliament, which is a matter of great concern. So I would ask that our government respond adequately to these responses concerning the rules of conduct within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. And the last one, mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! I would continue that story from the agricultural field, but from the areas I know best. It is clear to everyone that, as we said earlier, Slovenian apples will not give birth twice a year, and that the declaration should be at the principle level, however we wish. This introductory argument that European agriculture will be innovative, competitive can go against certain areas, arguing that, above all, European agriculture should be sustainable and environmentally sound. And if, then, the matter continues to be reinforced by the reference here to the Lisbon strategy, which assumes that the European economy will be the best and most competitive in the world, European agriculture, so, in the spirit of the Lisbon strategy, of course, cannot be because we simply do not have the basic conditions for it. Well, we're going to grow what natural gifts allow us to do. However, it is also important to understand and be aware in this strategy that, for example, many products in certain parts of the world, such as South America, North America and Australia, produce about three times as low as in Europe. Here is the story in the production of red meat that we do not lose words in the field of cereals and in the production of other resources that serve to feed both humans and animals. In this context and facing this fact, the European story should be discussed and adapted to the real opportunities we have in Europe. I welcome the declaration, and I will gladly support it, even though it is not ideal, but it is well-intentioned. These simplifications in agricultural policy - because in this complication we are obviously Slovenians real artists or we have the wish that we have been cultivating all the years we have not been members of the European Community, even today, when it is necessary to behave differently, still in ourselves. When we spoke on the Committee on Agriculture about what this direct payment scheme should be, I was pleased and delighted to support the so-called combined system, which, somewhere, retains the status quo, but I must say that this month, I have come to realize that the Slovenian Agency for the Development of Agricultural Markets and Rural Development is not and will not be a part of the bureaucratic process that we are already running in Slovenia, so I am sure that the government will also think carefully about it and choose a scheme that will go in that direction to reduce red tape, and we will take advantage of every meter of land that we have available for agriculture in Slovenia. And I think that this obviously combined scheme, despite being ideal and imagined, will no longer be like this. In addition, I support those niches that say that in Slovenia we can be one of the more important, for Slovenian needs, fruit and vegetable producers. In this area, we have huge and great opportunities, knowing that in other areas we will never be an important player in the European market, but we need to be more aware that we will produce quality and healthy food for the needs of Slovenians and Slovenians, which will otherwise be slightly more expensive than those produced in Europe and even more expensive than those produced in the world, but if we are Slovenians of an ecological and enlightened nation, then we will also be prepared to deduct some, of course, not tolar, but some euro or part of that euro. Here are our opportunities, so, as I said before, I will be extremely pleased if in these plans for the future we will talk more about the seasoning of Slovenian red meat, more about Slovenian poultry farming and other areas, for example, milk, rather than those that we quoted earlier, these are bananas, hemp and some other similar nonsense. Thank you very much. And the wine story is for [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you. I also conclude the debate with this. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration, the assembly will take its decision on the declaration in accordance with the meeting's schedule today, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda or no later than 21:00 and 45 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I thank all government representatives for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE LAW ON THE ELIMINATION OF THE IMPACT OF THE ACT WITH ASbestos. The total time for discussion is 4 hours and 25 minutes. At its 12th meeting, on 9 March 2006, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos. I give the floor to the representative of the state council, Mrs. Marti Turk. I'd like you to do this from outside the pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. On 9 March, as is already well known, at its 12th extraordinary session, the Council of State unanimously voted the procrastination veto on the law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos. He thus warned that this law solves the problem of asbestos patients in Slovenia unilaterally, not comprehensively, and not as imaginatively as it could be if the legislator took more time to talk, both with the medical profession and with the affected people, with the patients due to asbestos, and with their relatives. The National Assembly now has another opportunity to supplement the law with provisions that will solve the problem of all asbestos patients, including the surrounding population, not just workers working with asbestos. I must strongly oppose the statements made by some of the representatives of the proposer and the coalition Members that could be heard by the Council of State with a suspended veto on the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, which makes it impossible or at least stops the resolution of the asbestos problem in Slovenia. Such an attitude does not correspond to the actual situation. On the contrary. It is time to take responsibility for the people and the environment in which we live by supplementing the law and, of course, to resolve this matter in a way that is right and good for all who are affected. The law of which the National Assembly will re-conclude today does not take into account the settlement of damage to the destroyed health of the population, which in the vicinity of asbestos cement production has been inhaling asbestos or coming into direct contact with it, does not provide social security for asbestos patients who are deprived of their rights, thus also creating a difference between the patients who have been sick for the same reason that I do not speak of affected individuals, mostly children with disabilities. The previous law also granted wider rights to people who actually lived in an area where asbestos was being processed, and this was the case with the leaders of both commissions of the State Council, who had repeatedly warned the applicants to include this problem in the proposal for a new law. The views that we have also heard in the public are that the Council of State wanted to bring the former law back into force, and they are not true, because the last debate in the state world has shown this. We want the bill to address this issue so that now that it is time to discuss it again, the missing things are complemented, of course, many are well and properly resolved in the new law. Let me stress that the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities in early February addressed the proposal for a law and supported in particular the intention of the proposer to regulate the rights of citizens who have become sick due to asbestos. The Commission advocated a comprehensive solution in order to address the law also those who were not directly associated with asbestos and thus supported the asbestos Union of Slovenia. The Commission for the Economy of the State Council also noted the need for a comprehensive treatment of asbestos issues. On the basis of the position of the Economic Commission for Europe at its January meeting, the Council decided to extend the original law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production to a non-acquisition, which dealt more appropriately with the possibilities for the wider exercise of rights, so that the new law would, of course, resolve this issue. In this way, the legislator would acquire a comprehensive law on time that would take into account the medical profession’s position, the forecasts of the expected number of patients by 2010 and, in particular, the affected people. Of course, it is not disputed that the government has decided on a new law, but we have also expected, on the basis of assurances from the representatives of the proposer, that the government will preserve the rights of the affected people and take these warnings into account. In re-voting, the credibility of the coalition must not be the most important, but rather the credibility of humanity. This was also pointed out by the President of the State, and it was also obvious that consideration was not worthwhile. The Council of State has also rejected the law unanimously because it has not been in line with the social partners, because in the Council of State we are deciding on the principle that a law that is not in line with the representatives of civil society and the social partners deserves reconsideration and re-decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The request was also addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as the parent working body. I therefore give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I welcome everyone here! The Committee of the National Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is required by the Council of State to re-decision on the law to remedy the consequences of asbestos work at its 6th emergency meeting, 21.3. The Committee was informed of the request of the Council of State, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this request and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The meeting was attended by a representative of the State Council, Ms Marta Turk, representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Minister of Mag. The petty officer at the head and the legal-legislative representative. In the introductions, Mrs Marta Turk also added to the request to the members and members of the Committee by oral means, similar to in the earlier years, so I would not repeat it. The Government's written opinion on this request was also explained by additional Minister Drobnič. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, said that the service had already, in its opinion on the proposal for a law, concluded that, from a constitutional and systemic point of view, they had not come into the solutions incorporated into the law, including its basic solution, that only persons who had been employed in companies that had processed, stored, implanted or removed asbestos or asbestos products in jobs where they were exposed to asbestos were entitled to rights. This law, in accordance with the adopted conceptual basis, regulates the area of the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos and ensures consistent equality before the law for all employees. The Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that the law in the transitional provisions has also adequately designed the repeal of the regulation so far. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee objected to the demands of the State Council and expressed support for the adopted law, which they considered to be good and adequately addressing the issue of occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos, while at the same time considering that it would be necessary to take care of people living in the immediate vicinity who had become sick due to exposure to asbestos, which is not part of the provisions of this law which regulate the issue of occupational diseases. On the other hand, some other members of the Committee in the request of the State Council for Redecision on the Law have seen a good opportunity to reconsider the content of the law, which would address the integrated issue of asbestos exposure, rather than simply addressing the consequences of asbestos. They considered that the law did not provide legal protection, that it was under-focused on the negative effects of asbestos, and that it was unacceptable for the right to recognise diseases to be linked solely to occupational diseases. In their view, the law is discriminatory because it does not treat all those who have suffered from asbestos exposure in the same way. It is also expected that the cycle of asbestos patients will increase and environmental diseases should also be included in this law and professional and interested public should be included in the search for solutions. The following discussion also raised the question of whether the rejection of this law would create a legal void, which some discussers had already pointed out when the bill was being considered. The government representative explained, however, that the old law was being implemented and that funds were also being allocated in the budget for its implementation. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee decided, decided to reach a decision calling on the National Assembly to reconfirm the law and did not receive majority support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponent to explain the government's opinion. Let me say that the government has changed the time that was originally meant to have 5 minutes to present an opinion and then later 3 minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, the well-known Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the Act is to ensure the social security of workers who have received occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos and to assist economic companies liable to those workers, and their business would be compromised if they had to pay compensation. The proposed law is more favourable to asbestos patients than is currently in force and gives more rights. The range of beneficiaries, including patients, is extended to those who have stored and processed asbestos products. The law specifies more precisely occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos, which are taken into account in the recognition of rights. Under the new law, they also have a certificate to file applications that they did not have in the previous year. They are now made it easier for them to exercise their rights and also their costs. According to the new law, the cost of medical examinations was taken over by the State, which was the burden of the individual, i.e. the patient. Otherwise, the law clearly provides for compensation, which is covered by a state of 60%, in cases where the amount of compensation could endanger economic damage or is no longer the case, it assumes the obligation to pay the State as a whole, which means that compensation is guaranteed to the sick or by taking over the entire obligation to pay the compensation prevents the company from being jeopardised by the payment of the compensation which, however, is the responsibility of the economic company. Conditions of retirement of second and third categories of persons with disabilities are more favourable than those of other cancerous patients who have also been affected by substances in the environment. By appointing an interdisciplinary commission and an inter-ministerial commission, more transparent and professional decision-making on rights and prevention of inadequate discretion will be ensured. Rights are guaranteed to heirs if they have, of course, submitted an application. About the surrounding people. This law regulates the issue of patients in relation to employment and employment, as is the case with other occupational diseases, so it is not possible, from a systemic point of view, to be included in the circle of beneficiaries of other residents, within the meaning of labour law. Initiatives to extend the range of beneficiaries to the affected population should be addressed within the framework of a comprehensive system for providing state aid to people affected by environmental pollution, due to the impact of industry, transport or other environmental problems resulting from cancer. The provision so far in force, which is referred to by the State Council in relation to the surrounding population, is anyway empty. It should be clarified once again that the right to compensation as the main right can be acquired by investors on the basis of settlement, which means that they can also use all other available means to exercise their rights. They can sue and sue. This route may be used by any citizen, whether he has been employed or not. On the basis of the above facts, it is clear that the arguments of the State Council, which has vetoed this law, do not hold. The proposed law offers appropriate solutions for patients with asbestos. The proposed law gives more favourable rights than the law currently in force, the rights and procedures are more clearly defined, including with clearer criteria. There is less discretion, more professional judgment, and more expertise. Therefore, the government proposes that Members support the proposed law, which is a good basis for dealing with the pains of asbestos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the Group of Members. The first is Mr Brenčič, on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian People's Party's Group adopts a law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos, I repeat, working with asbestos, as a good law, which is conceptually built as a model example of dealing with the consequences that workers have acquired or suffered as a health problem in jobs, in which case of course health or health loss due to asbestos exposure. It is clear that this issue is governed by a law that is subject to the requirement of the State Council to resolve or regulate much more comprehensively and in a certain way, in particular in the area of the identification of occupational illness, the recognition of compensation, including the right to a more favourable retirement due to the loss of health, and, of course, lays down those liable to compensation in a much more consistent or comprehensive manner than the present law. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members, as we have already supported it in the preliminary adoption of the third reading, without exception. Indeed, in the parliamentary group, we are aware of the fact that this law does not interfere with or resolve the issue of the impact of asbestos on the environment, in the first place the health or disease of the population on this basis. However, this issue, irrespective of the conceptual design of the law in question, cannot be resolved by this law, but it must be done on other legal grounds, which, if there is sufficient understanding for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia first, can be done quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Friend, on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, present in the Chamber! At the beginning of the 2004 mandate, government officials were full of promises. They promised that in 2005, when we extended the validity of the law on the Economic Committee, they would comprehensively address this issue in the competent ministry and submit a law to the National Assembly, including environmental aspects and a just solution to the problem of the sick. At that time, the law also received 100 % support in the National Assembly and we were able to transfer those funds that were available in 2005, which unfortunately did not happen in 2005. By failing to confirm the validity of this law and because the government has not fulfilled its promise, there has been a emptiness of marriage that has been filled by offering to the national assembly a fast-prepared law, which resulted in a multitude of amendments to the law, both by government parties and by the opposition. Of course, the opposition amendments were non-chalant. However, the fact that the marriage was poorly prepared shows that almost all articles have been amended by the government. Thus, a worse marriage than before and warnings from the asbestos union, as well as the asbestos society, did not fail, the Chamber of Commerce also pointed to this issue. In fact, local communities have been very active here with comments, the medical profession has been completely excluded in the preparation of this law, which is, of course, a disgrace to the drafter of this law. Even the President of the State is involved in making a clear appeal that this issue needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, and of course also take into account those living next to the so-called endangered, polluted area and not only those who worked directly in production, but the law went so far and was adopted, unfortunately, that he even separated those who worked in production in administration and those who worked in direct production. I'm sick of the consequences of asbestos, and time is running out. They're with us today. They're here. The law is poor, the Minister-designate, please do not deceive the public, it is worse than the previous one, it is significantly worse because it excludes the environmental aspect and, of course, is significantly worse for workers, because it excludes the right for workers or their legal representatives to participate in the process of determining the level of their disease. Moreover, it excludes the right to information for affected persons and those who have found a disability rate simply offers nothing but that, in fact, we simply deposit them with the employment agency after the disability rate found, because they are, of course, facing subsidisation and financial support for a period of time, they are later sentenced to the end themselves. This is the fate of this law. To all who have worked directly with asbestos, of course, certain rights are guaranteed, to those who disagree with these assigned, established rates of disease, and there is nothing left but, of course, judicial protection, which is sad, because we know how fast our trial mills are, we can experience and experience only that, in fact, over time, they are over time and the consequences are here. Neither are their descendants actually entitled to what would be normal to some compensation. Of course, I would also touch here on how they see in other European countries when we are full of these words, what Europe is doing. See, in Brussels, simply Parliament of the European Community collapsed because it contained asbestos insulation material in its building. The international funds allocated by Europe are considerable. Slovenia, our competent minister, respected, has not even made an effort to obtain these international funds. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor Minister, why? I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, why? Italy, our neighbor, 150 million euros. The possibility of a subsidy exists, and I would be happy if we could at least do so roughly as well to address this problem as we are solving it by, for example, introducing an ecological way of heating in households when the Ministry of Environment and Space allocates good credits, for example, to households that decide on an ecological way of heating. Why do we not approach here in the same way and provide resources for the sustainable elimination of the consequences of asbestos, because the country is the one that allowed roof roofs to be used, water pipes with asbestos, that I do not speak insulation materials in construction, but nothing happens. The latent period of these diseases is great, long. It will happen that in 10 years we will determine the true origin of this disease. Today we have found in a large company, Slovenian Railways, representatives of this company are here. Embarrassingly, 100% of the country's property is this company, and it is still allowed to produce asbestos. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, look, there have been petitions today, many of them have come into our parliamentary group. Among them is the fact that it is essentially signed under the text, which says that they join members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, who tabled and supported the amendments to the said Act, members of New Slovenia, members of the SDS and of course DeSUS and all other parties also signed. It will be interesting to see your vote here today. We'll see if you're listening blindly and following your client's instructions, if you're really that honest with your constituents. If you have been elected and allowed to represent them in this House, you will follow this instructions. This petition was signed by almost all the representatives of the congregations there, and so did you. Of course, that's not the only one. I received four, including the Union of Disabled Persons of Slovenia, and the Association of Disabled Persons petitioned us, and the Association of Asbestos Patients of Slovenia also addressed the letter. I am confident that my parliamentary group of these patients, these endangered groups, will not be disappointed. We're with you. I hope that the country will not make deals on the order of those waiting to die. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u76	If I'm allowed, President, can I just have one more sentence?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u77	Excepted. Otherwise, it's unusual if someone finishes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thanks, I kind of forgot. To the Minister for advice. The costs of diplomatic consular offices for renting premises for 2004 amount to 3 billion 051 million, 300 million more in 2006 and several million more in 2007. If we were to rent credits, buy these premises, we would pay a third of the amount of annuity for the loans paid, and 2/3 of the amount mentioned could also be left to solve this problem, and many problems could be solved if the state behaved economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Vice President Mag. Clavora, on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u80	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we advocate the view that the law governing the rights of patients with asbestos is certainly necessary. In doing so, we stress that health is the most important value of life. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to ensure social security for all those exposed to asbestos, to ensure a more appropriate, healthier environment and, finally, to provide all beneficiaries with adequate compensation. Today we are deciding on a law on which the Council of State has adopted a request for us to rule again in the National Assembly. If we look at the statistics on how many laws the state council has vetoed, I assure you there are not many. However, those laws, which he had already applied, usually failed to resolve matters satisfactorily or to provide adequate legal protection. And that's exactly the kind of law we're going to be deciding about today. In our Group of Members, we believe that the law on our table is inadequate from a systemic point of view, because it does not solve the problem that should be addressed in an appropriate manner. We estimate that the reason why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has failed to take into account the comments and opinions of individual stakeholders when preparing the proposal is that there has been a lack of cooperation between the law-makers themselves and those directly affected by such legislation, i.e. victims or patients who have suffered from asbestos exposure. And this is also the main observation that we are referring to the government in our parliamentary group. From the submission of the proposal to this day, we have drawn attention to certain dilemmas in the Group of Members. In particular, this is a problem of the unequal position of patients who suffer from asbestos. Members of our group estimate that human health was not only affected by working with asbestos, but also by other forms of exposure to this deadly thing. That is why it seems unfair to us that the law focuses only on occupational diseases and ignores all other people who have not come into contact with asbestos directly in the factories themselves, the workshops themselves, but who have also been exposed to asbestos and the result is their illness and death. It is mainly for people who have been exposed to asbestos dust in their living or working environment. Their suffering and losses are the same, and the law does not grant them the same rights as regards the right to compensation and pensions under more favourable conditions. Once again, I would like to point out that it is not the workers or the families who had their homes near these factories who are dying because of asbestos - related diseases. It is sad, but it is even more sad and incomprehensible that all amendments and arguments to deal with asbestos patients have been heard. The fact is that this disease has not yet appeared in its entire expansion, and that the latent era is great, so that this disease will not manifest itself in all its cruelty until decades later. We also do not know how to cure the diseases found, and if they are still healthy at the time of the examination, they are not said to be healthy until tomorrow. Asbestos remains in the lungs, which can function potentially carcinogenicly for the rest of your life, leading to the progression of scarring in the lungs and in the ribs. We are aware that in this case it is financial resources and we understand the financial distress of the country, but we must not overlook the fact that the disease is also the fault of the country, especially those who have not been employed in these factories and have not been aware of the dangerous environment in which they live or work. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the solutions now offered by the law will not be able to achieve an equal position for all patients who suffer from asbestos and, therefore, the inadequacy of the comprehensive system, legal treatment and resolution of the so-called asbestos problem is manifest. Once again, Members of Parliament and Members, I call on you, as a member of the National Assembly, as well as as those who have been professionally accompanying many of these patients, and well aware of this issue, at least as far as Posača is concerned, to reconsider this issue and, irrespective of customer affiliation, do not take steps that may prove to be wrong or even tragic. For a moment, think about your position and how you would vote if you were harmed or your dearest. In our parliamentary group, we believe that such a law does not constitute a suitable legal basis for the long-term resolution of asbestos problems, and at the very least it would be necessary to introduce into the law elements that would allow such social security, which would not only mean basic survival, but also the decent life of every human being. Regardless of whether the law will be passed and if this law is passed, we have decided in our parliamentary group to put forward a proposal for a new law immediately, which will also regulate what this law does not regulate. However, as regards the vote, we have said so, we will vote in our conscience. I'll vote on my own conscience against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubeljšek has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Director, Honourable Representative of the Council of State, Dear Fellows and Fellows, The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will once again support the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos because the system, comprehensive, consistent, artistic and socially responsible regulation of asbestos issues, both from the point of view of the injured, the companies and the state, as well as the foreseeable and assessed needs and requirements of the injured and the budgetary capacity. The new law is based on good practice that has been established in the European Union countries and has good or even better solutions in comparison to this practice for people who have suffered the consequences of working with asbestos as well as for economic societies. It sets out in its terms very clearly the occupational diseases and conditions for their identification, dosage and payment of lump sum compensation and the right to a disability pension under more favourable conditions in persons who have been identified as having been exposed to asbestos, i.e. persons who have been employed in companies that have processed, stored, implanted or removed asbestos or asbestos products. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have always supported the proposal of the law on the abolition of asbestos work, because we believe that this law builds on the law on the prohibition of production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in asbestos, which was adopted in 1996 and was subsequently amended and supplemented three more times. The very titles of both laws show the basic purposes and objectives of these laws. The current law prohibited production and earmarked financial means for restructuring, while the new law provided social security for workers employed in companies where they received occupational diseases and for exposure to asbestos, and State aid to companies or at least 60% of the contribution to compensation. The main argument of the State Council that the new law does not include a category of people exposed to asbestos dust is therefore not in the context of the basic purpose of the new law, which eliminates the consequences of working with asbestos. Moreover, the State Council’s claim that the current law also granted wider rights to residents living near companies that processed or stored asbestos or asbestos products is not true, since in Article 1, it merely declared the provision of health and social security to the population. In other provisions, he did not mention the inhabitants at all. It only granted rights to workers employed in companies, but not to the surrounding population. According to data, no citizen in Slovenia has been granted rights under the law. The State Council also considers that the early retirement of workers with a occupational disease who obtain the status of second and third categories of disability must not be linked to the condition of 25 years of retirement and 50 years of age. We also support in our parliamentary group the asbestos issue of disability pension, which is precisely defined in the law on pension and disability insurance. In particular, the basic principle of fairness and equal treatment of all disabled persons who are recognised as Category I disability without all conditions and additional restrictions. Insured persons with recognised disability II. and III. the categories and additional conditions mentioned above, the age of 50 years and 25 years of retirement, which means that it is still much more favourable than those of all other disabled persons subject to general pension conditions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are unfavorably surprised by the lack of confidence of the State Council in the interdisciplinary group of experts and its appointment and the lack of confidence in the Interdepartmental Commission, which is demonstrated by the reason that representatives of all interested public should also be present in the implementation of such an important law and that there is no legal protection at the second stage against the opinion of the Commission, and that judicial protection is also excluded. The new law sets out very clearly the tasks of the Interdisciplinary Commission of Experts and the Interdepartmental Commission. In identifying the disease due to the consequences of asbestos work, an interdisciplinary group of top experts with appropriate medical knowledge shall perform the professional tasks. The Interdisciplinary Commission shall be appointed by the Minister of Health from among doctors involved in asbestos diseases. The Interdisciplinary Group shall deliver an opinion which shall be binding only on the decision of the Inter-Ministerial Commission in order to offer a settlement. If the interdisciplinary group does not identify a professional disease in the injured party, it still has the possibility to bring a dispute before a court where the existence of the disease and other consequences of working with asbestos can be demonstrated by judicial experts. It should be pointed out that when it comes to medical diagnosis and expert opinions, these are not questions that can be resolved by administrative procedure, but rather by highly professional and demanding work, in accordance with medical doctrine and medical ethics. On their legal nature, the expert opinions are preliminary questions on which the decisions of the competent authorities are based. In cases where necessary, the Interdepartmental Commission may invite the beneficiary or his legal representative to a meeting. Since it is a matter of exercising personal rights, the Ombudsman chooses his legal representative and cannot simply assume this role on the basis of law by one of the organisations affected by asbestos. If the law provided for an individual to be represented by an organisation in the Interdepartmental Commission, they would intervene in his freedom to decide with which organisation he would cooperate or who would represent his interests. The rights under this law are granted only by the beneficiaries on the basis of a settlement. The right to compensation or on the basis of a decision of SPIZ, a pension under more favourable conditions. If an individual disagrees with the attached settlement on compensation, the provision of a professional disease or if the competent interdisciplinary commission has not established a professional disease in his case, he may bring an action before a court. All legal remedies shall be available in this dispute before the court. It can be concluded from the above that the new law specifies the rights which may be exercised by injured workers, which is not covered by the law in force so far and which have been paid out on the basis of additional arrangements and without the rules formally published. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have been actively involved in the substantive search for solutions to the bill, both with the asbestos patients' union, the asbestos society, with representatives of companies, with affected nationals, with coalition parties, and with government lawmakers. There has been a lot of reflection and discussion in our parliamentary group on how to include the surrounding population in the law, but this has not been justified on the basis of professional grounds, with concrete criteria regarding the distance to the asbestos production centre, nor on these grounds has it been possible to assess the potential number of patients with asbestos diseases in the coming years and decades, so as to establish an area to be professionally justified, in particular fair and fair to all the population. What are we going to tell those people who are going to stay behind the border of a certain area who are going to be sick of asbestos disease? Here lies our view of injustice and inequality before the law. So it is in itself a solution to extend the area to the entire territory of Slovenia. In this case, however, we are faced with a new dilemma there is no stranger. What about the remaining polluted and poisoned environments that are and also cause various physical and mental disorders, including the consequences of death. These are dilemmas and ignorances that have not even been touched by the law so far and have not been tried by the previous government and coalition, so a gradual, professional and responsible approach is needed, which means that this complex problem must be addressed by the consequences of the polluted and poisoned environment that causes various serious diseases of the population, first by the profession and then by the legislative branch of authority. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that it is possible in the future to include the most affected surrounding population with appropriate additions, of course, if this has been done within the framework of constitutional equality before the law. We are more inclined to come up with a solution to draft a law on the elimination of the effects of pollution and the burden of the environment on asbestos or asbestos products. And it would be useful to include the inhabitants in this law. This would mean a third step in solving the asbestos problem in the Republic of Slovenia. Our Group of Members will always support any initiatives and solutions in this direction constructively, particularly state-level wisdom and responsibility. However, it will not support cheap populist debates and proposals that are not realistic and constitute a leap into the unknown. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos, the upgrading of the law so far, and that it is an appropriate legal basis for the long-term resolution of asbestos problems, as well as the legal basis for the implementation of dedicated budgetary spending. Failure to confirm this law would seriously endanger the social security of workers who have received occupational diseases due to asbestos exposure for an indefinite period of time. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group does not want to take on this irresponsibility, so the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work will once again be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I invite the next one to Mr Germić's word on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, co-worker of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The unanimous decision of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the vote, on the veto voted on by the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, allows all to reconsider the content of the proposed law and offers us the opportunity to pass a re-examination test so that, on the basis of the professional arguments already presented and the warnings of the interested and other public of the inappropriate law, we do not confirm. At the beginning of the presentation of the position of the LDS Club on the request of the Council of State to re-decision on the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, we would like to remind citizens and citizens and the government once again of the fact that large amounts of asbestos still exist in our environment, which pose a potential threat to each of us. In the Western world, asbestos, which is a common name for a group of fibre silicons, is considered to be a miracle ore with versatile utility. It is therefore present in more than 3,000 products. The most famous such products are water and sewage pipes, roof coverings made of asbestos cement, type of insulation for buildings and electrical guides, brake discs and seals, and longer asbestos fibres were also used in the textile industry. Even in Slovenia, a third of buildings are still covered with critiques containing solidly bound asbestos, asbestos water pipes are still over 1,000 kilometers away, and many buildings, although the data is not clear, have insulation, interference or soil from materials with weak asbestos. Between 1946 and 1996, while 67,000 tonnes of asbestos were imported into Slovenia, 14 companies used it in their production, 10 companies incorporated it into imported products and 8 companies sold it in retail. A year ago, at the LDS of the current Minister for the Environment and Space of the Member State, we drew attention to this public often with little known fact and problem. We also asked him how the competent inspection oversees the implementation of the regulations governing asbestos management and whether specific financial incentives should be introduced for the professional replacement of construction materials containing hazardous asbestos. These issues are particularly important in the light of international research, which points out that asbestos users are even more at risk than workers in asbestos and asbestos production itself. Unfortunately, the Minister for Environment and Space's response was not very encouraging. According to the assessment of the Ministry of Environment and Space, about 400,000 tonnes of asbestos-cement coverage will have to be replaced and stored safely in our country by 2020. That quantity does not, of course, include other wastes which also contain asbestos. According to the Minister, the number of inspections of the environment and nature inspection despite the fact that the amount of asbestos waste is increasing significantly from year to year. This information must be of concern to us, as well as the information provided by the Minister, that this government is probably not planning to provide specific financial incentives for the professional replacement of construction materials containing hazardous asbestos. That this area is almost completely unsupervised, only 9 inspections in 2004 have been carried out, while it is noted that several cases have been identified where the removal of asbestos-cement coverings on a surface of 1,000 square metres was carried out by operators who did not have any authority to do such work, which poses a great threat to all those exposed to asbestos dust. In doing so, I would like to point out that even after one year, the Minister of Environment and Space has not yet fulfilled the promise that the Ministry of the Environment and Space will issue a special package to inform citizens and citizens of the risks associated with asbestos, the way in which roof coverings from asbestos and the way in which these waste is disposed of and other asbestos products are disposed of. Obviously, the government is unaware of the seriousness of this issue, which unfortunately is also reflected in the case of the law that we will be deciding again today. Most of the tragic consequences of the mass use of asbestos could have been avoided in the world and could have been avoided by taking into account more than 100 years old warnings about the harmful effects of asbestos on human health. Unfortunately, these early warnings were not given greater attention. The measures to limit and prohibit the use of asbestos occurred only after the discovery of the severe consequences of exposure to asbestos dust and many tragic losses of human life in the late 1980s. Only in 1998 and 1999 did the European Union countries definitively prohibit the use of all types and forms of asbestos. In 2001, however, the dispute between the World Trade Organisation, which rejected the Canadian complaint and supported the European ban, also ended. So, over a century after the first warnings of asbestos damage. In our country, too, and compared to some other countries, in 1996 we banned the production and transport of asbestos products by special law, arranged for the restructuring of asbestos production into asbestos and resolved some of the social issues of workers who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. Despite the fact that it was adopted too late, this law plays a central role in solving the asbestos problem in our country. When the restructuring of asbestos production into non-terrestrial production ended in 2003, it became apparent that it was necessary to upgrade the law and provide solutions in the long term in the interest of people who were or will be affected by exposure to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. The former Government, led by the LDS, was aware of this fact, and in early 2004, it established a special interdepartmental working group, which prepared a comprehensive review of the implementation of the existing law, a forecast of the assessment of patients and a starting point for the drafting of a new law. As a result of the end of the term of office, the previous government failed to prepare, which is why the current government has taken over the task. In January 2005, we extended the 1996 law in the National Assembly. After the re-renewal was rejected, the government finally submitted a proposal for a new law on the removal of the consequences of asbestos work to the legislative process. Despite the fact that the government had already prepared professional grounds for the new law and that more than enough time had been taken to prepare the marriage text, it turned out that it had not been aligned at all with those interested in it, i.e. people who, unfortunately, also pay for centuries of error in their lives. There was simply no necessary dialogue between the government and affected citizens and citizens. This is also the first observation we and still refer to the government at the LDS. Even more so, it will be in the eyes and arouses concern about the lack of cooperation of the government or the lawmakers for the medical profession. As a result of such behaviour, a number of comments were received by the social partners, companies, professional associations and the association and society of asbestos patients. Despite the fact that, after extensive discussion at the home work body, a complementary draft law containing some minor amendments to the legal text was prepared, the LDS felt that they were not correcting the legal text in order to ensure equal rights for all people who were or will still be affected by exposure to the harmful effects of asbestos. Therefore, together with the Group of Social Democrats and the Member of the Srečko Friends of the National Assembly, we have proposed an amendment based on the fact that Slovenia is also a social state and the principle of justice and solidarity. The ruling coalition has rejected all proposed amendments. For the sake of understanding and re-explaining the public, I would like to reiterate what solutions we have proposed with these amendments, because the fact is that the amendments put the text of the law in a different context. In particular, we have proposed that, on more favourable terms, all persons who have been identified as professional or other diseases due to exposure to asbestos be entitled to compensation and pension. So also the inhabitants who lived in the business premises of companies where asbestos or asbestos products were processed or stored. We have suggested that, under certain conditions, legal heirs of pensions are also entitled to compensation, which is unfortunately still compulsory children, since all too often the beneficiaries of lung cancer are dying at the age of about 35. Furthermore, we have proposed that compensation of 60% of the amount fixed should be covered by the Republic of Slovenia in respect of damages in judicial proceedings, and that in cases of cancer, compensation should be covered in full. We are convinced that the Republic of Slovenia cannot and must not deny the responsibility for the presence of a large amount of asbestos in our environment, which can be carcinogenised by the minimal inhalation of their fibres. We have also proposed that the fifth member of the Interdepartmental Commission be proposed by organisations of persons affected by asbestos. In our view, it is a civilisation standard for patients to be able to participate in decision-making on the rights of the sick. Last but not least, with the proposed amendments, we opposed the tightening of the conditions for obtaining a disability pension under more favourable conditions. We therefore proposed that the right to early retirement should be exclusively linked to the disease found and not to the additional conditions that the 1996 law did not contain. Your Honor! If the ruling coalition of the proposed amendments were supported at the meeting of the National Assembly in the second reading, the requirements of the Council of State for re-decision on this law would most likely not be supported. The Council of State has therefore given the ruling coalition time to reconsider whether it actually wants to share with the law the same diseases due to exposure to asbestos, namely those who would have rights under this law, and those who would not have these rights. The National Council has also allowed the ruling coalition to decide again whether it really wants to reduce the rights already acquired by the 1996 law. In order to facilitate the decision, I would point out the results of the London hospital, which are based on data collected between 1917 and 1964, that more than 50% of the 96 cases studied for mesothelioma were exposed to asbestos professionally or privately. As an example, it is the patients who lived with a worker who had contact with asbestos. One third of the rest lived in areas less than 800 metres from the asbestos factory. While part of the ruling coalition predicts an immediate amendment to this moment of the unadopted law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work. In the LDS, if such conduct is indeed to occur and the law is to be reconfirmed today, we consider it to be an unrealistic and irresponsible act of the ruling coalition, which puts its political prestige ahead of many human destinys, the loss of life and the immeasurable suffering of individuals and their relatives. Your Honor! We will not support the law on the removal of the consequences of working with asbestos in re-decision in the LDS. All who suffer or suffer from asbestos deserve a more social and just marriage. At the same time, we hope and wish for the well-being of all those who will suffer in any way the consequences of asbestos exposure, so that most Members and Members will follow the decision of the parent working body, which did not provide the necessary support for the re-decision of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Bevk, on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this law is a step backwards in solving the asbestos problem in Slovenia, as its title narrows down the content of the law itself. The law applies only to the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, but not to the harmful effects of exposure to hazardous asbestos. It therefore applies only to workers employed in asbestos production, but not to residents exposed to asbestos in the immediate vicinity of production facilities. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will take into account the veto of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and vote against the law. Slovenia has been facing harmful effects of asbestos dust in production and around production facilities for at least 35 years, since the 1970s. Asbestos was used in Slovenia, for example in Maribor, from the second half of the 19th century and in the Soča Valley from 1921 onwards. In the last three decades, the medical profession and some companies have begun to draw attention to these problems, especially Salonit Anhovo. At the level of the country, however, a law was adopted in 1996 prohibiting the production and transport of asbestos products and regulating the restructuring of asbestos production to inequity and also regulating the social rights of employees. This law was unanimously adopted by Members and Members from all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. The new law proposed by the government is, in our view, a step back in this area. That we do not take asbestos seriously enough in our country, we also bear witness that several years ago in Slovenia we discovered a new focus of asbestos patients, in Slovenian railways, in a company that is 100% owned by the country. Last December, the company sent 100 workers to the hospital in Golnik for specialist examinations, the results of which will be known at the end of this month. However, these survey workers have said that, after asserting the management of the Slovenian Railways, they will have to work with asbestos for another 10 years, even though the legal ban on the use of asbestos in production has been in force in our country for 10 years. Of course, that's outrageous. We were also appalled when, two years ago, the builders simply mined the buildings of a celebratory zinc factory, so that the dust of asbestos critique spread uncontrolledly among the inhabitants in the immediate vicinity of the city. First, it must be pointed out that the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work was adopted without the cooperation of the social partners and the medical profession. The law is opposed to a wide range of social realities. Veto was voted unanimously in the state council, without a vote against, which rarely happens. The law is opposed to the associations of asbestos patients in Slovenia, the asbestos society, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, in the companies where asbestos was used, at the clinical institute for medicine, transport and sports of the clinical centre in Ljubljana. Dr Janez Drnovšek also wrote his letter of disagreement to the Prime Minister. The claims of the inhabitants who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust in the immediate vicinity of the production facilities were also justified. With the proposed amendments, the Social Democrats, together with their opposition colleagues, wanted to complement the basic concept of government asbestos law with an environmental and not just professional aspect of asbestos disease. Unfortunately, all the opposition's additions were rejected. As early as December 2004, the Interdepartmental Government Working Group noted that in the group of beneficiaries of compensation, I quote, "all potential exhibitors, employees or former employees in the production process or service services who have been directly or indirectly in contact with asbestos dust, as well as residents due to environmental exposure to asbestos through the diagnosis of asbestos disease - mesothelioma." End of story. This is also confirmed by Minister Janez Drobnič on my oral question in the National Assembly on 22 June 2005. Also in the February discussions on the parental committee this year, it was clear that the government originally intended to write a law that would also include the exposure of the population to production facilities. The medical profession points out that up to now 2 000 100 workers and former workers have been treated, suspected of occupational asbestos disease, 95% of the area of the Soca Valley. From 1964 to 2002, 365 mesotheliomas were discovered in Slovenia, of which 95% were on the 5km radio around asbestos factories. In addition to the Soča valley, we have three more hotspots in Slovenia for this worst asbestos disease. These are Izola, Ljubljana with Domžal and Maribor. One third of the mesothelioms fall off on Maribor, because there was a track-vehicle factory where pure asbestos was used. Sadly, the majority of the patients did not realize that they had died from asbestos. Asbestos exposed workers in the shipyard, who now live and get sick in neighbouring Croatia. In the last 10 years, diseases have also occurred in the gastro-intestinal pool. In the area of Anhovega, after 1947, when the factory came to Slovenia, only five patients were found among the population due to mesothelioma due to environmental exposure to asbestos. All certified occupational asbestos diseases, however, have so far been around 1,700 among workers. The inclusion of the population as a vulnerable group around production facilities and the recognition of mesothelioma as an environmental disease would have no significant financial implications for the state budget and the Government's argument that the state budget could not do so would not. Studies have shown that the survival period from lung cancer, especially mesothelioma, is 11, up to 12 months. In the event that the settlement or action proceedings cannot be brought to an end, it would be necessary to continue to communicate with the affected heirs, but only if he has already filed a claim for compensation for the period of life to which he is entitled, but because of the long-term judicial proceedings he has not received. The Netherlands has similar solutions for which we Social Democrats have taken part in the examination of the law. Of course, we could point out a number of shortcomings in the law, all of which have been said in the past few weeks and even today. I am more concerned that according to the medical profession in Slovenia we do not detect occupational diseases, because according to some data only 27 occupational diseases are recognised annually, even though they should be at least 1,500 compared to Europe. Asbestos alone was exposed to about 23,000 employees in Slovenia. The peak of asbestos disease, due to the long latent period until the outbreak of the disease, is expected by the medical profession around 2025. Forecasts for the EU over the next 35 years speak of 250,000 dead and, according to the worst forecast, 400,000. Your Honor! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will vote against the law, calling on the government to prepare a new law that will comprehensively regulate asbestos issues in Slovenia and, besides professionally, implement the environmental aspect of the recognition of asbestos diseases. I also call on colleagues and colleagues from the coalition to reject the law, because the discipline of the rare coalition members who have opposed the law so far is not an honour of Slovenian parliamentary tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. And the last one, mag. Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members, dear guests! The law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, which we reaffirm in the National Assembly, regulates the identification of occupational and other diseases and the reduction of life functions due to exposure to asbestos dust, the recognition of lump sum compensation for diseases and the provision of the right to a pension under more favourable conditions. Beneficiaries under this Act will all those who have been employed in companies that have processed, used, stored, implanted or removed asbestos or asbestos products, but in jobs where they were exposed to asbestos and have become sick. By means of legal solutions, we are expanding the range of beneficiaries who have come into contact with asbestos in their workplace, according to the old law banning production and trafficking in asbestos products. And because of this expansion, the marriage is good and better than it is now valid. I am convinced that the proposed law is also good to solve problems for railway workers or their central facilities, where a new large range of asbestos diseases has recently been discovered. On Slovenian railways, for 10 years after the legal regulation of the asbestos problem, it has not yet been resolved or has only begun to resolve itself. The new law will give workers rights that they have never had before. I'm sure of it. Therefore, in New Slovenia we cannot understand the decision of the State Council to veto this law. Our view is that compensation must be granted to all workers who have worked in contact with asbestos and have become sick. The veto of the State Council only delays the exercise of a right that has been owned by workers since 1996, but has not been properly regulated. We must also be aware of this in the National Assembly when we vote on this law again today. The right to go to sick workers for asbestos must not be denied, no matter where they were employed. For this reason, the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos needs to be re-examined. I would also point out that the 1996 law on the prohibition of production and transport of asbestos provided for only employees in establishments and that no person who had not been employed in production establishments had obtained rights under this law. This is what the letter from the country’s asbestos production plant, which I presented at the previous meeting of the National Assembly when we adopted the law, also speaks of. Therefore, the new law does not in any way violate existing rights. The right to a disability pension under the new law will be enforceable by all beneficiaries if, under the general rules on pension and disability insurance, disability has been established as a result of a occupational disease under this law and if they have completed 25 years of retirement and are at least 50 years of age. The proposal sets out the maximum amounts of compensation for occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos. It is proposed that the country covers at least 60% and that the company has a maximum of 40% of the compensation costs per disease. The amount of compensation for recognised diseases under this law will range from 2.5 million to 10 million tolars, with clear criteria and ranges being clearly defined in the new law, which is better from now on. In some countries of the European Union, asbestos workers do not receive compensation for lighter forms of disease. This is the case in Britain, France, the Netherlands, Germany. In Slovenia, therefore, we have taken a major step forward in protecting the rights of workers who have come into contact with asbestos and have therefore become sick. Slovenia will thus be one of the few countries that allows for the right to compensation for better forms of asbestos disease. In our view, the bill, which we reaffirm, has the right solutions both for those who are sick and for those who are or will still be in a difficult situation due to asbestos diseases. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that it is primarily for them, i.e. workers, to allocate additional resources if any of the recognised forms of disease are identified. This will be identified by an interdisciplinary group of experts appointed by law by the Minister responsible for health. In view of the above, the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos is better than the law in force so far and is, in our view, quite comparable to similar European laws. On the other hand, we are also aware that this law does not solve the problem of all those who have suffered from asbestos in the environment, particularly in the area of large production plants. Above all, there is a problematic definition of the environment, because if we define an area in the law, then we can do wrong to the one who will suffer from asbestos disease and will live outside this area and will not be entitled to compensation under law. However, the spread across Slovenia and the solution in the manner envisaged in the adopted law would likely represent financial unforeseeable effects. The new Slovenia will propose and also ensure that the solution to this problem continues. We are also aware of other asbestos issues, such as the replacement of asbestos pipelines and roofs, which must be addressed by another law, not by the proposed one. However, it is now important that we first tackle the rights of those most exposed. These are the workers. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija, we will once again support the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. My word to Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I was encouraged by the SABS call, which is a union of asbestos patients in Slovenia, which claims in its first sentence that the law under consideration is the law, and I will state that "a real tragedy for the affected and a great step back in solving such problems in Slovenia". I would like to point out that tragedy will be if this law is not passed. However, I take the statement as a tendentious, demagogic and irresponsible statement, which shows the cheeriness and inability to argue the facts. Writers do not understand or do not want to understand the basic purpose of this law, which solves the problem of occupational diseases caused by working with asbestos. This marriage is better than it is now valid, but it does not save what is possible or necessary and what is populist, it is the disease of the factories. At the same time, we need to ask ourselves about the very definition of the environment, the endangered areas by the operation of the asbestos factory. Is that a radio 50 meters, 500 meters, 1000, 5000 or even more? Do the borders represent the edges of forests, plains, rivers? In considering this law, I have always been disturbed by the fact that, despite the long-standing application of the existing law, no scientific institution has provided me with a qualitative scientific analysis of the impact of asbestos on the environment, with an emphasis on the degree of risk, given the distance from production itself, natural influences such as winds, vegetation. In short, what are the impacts of the meteorological and climate conditions, which we must not ignore in any way if we want to avoid causing new injustices. I am convinced that in the event of an extension of the scope of beneficiaries beyond the scope of occupational diseases, the Interdisciplinary Commission should have in order to deal fairly with each individual case. The law that we are reviewing today is not flawless. I agree with that, too. However, it is a new step towards achieving the objective of finalising the negative effects of the production and use of asbestos products. I'm sure you'll agree that there are still replacements of roof coverings, water pipes and other products that we've used extensively in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I can see that some of these people are not in the hall. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Respectable assembly, distinguished guests! The problem of asbestos disease has been lingering for quite some time. The problem is not only Slovenia, but we meet it practically everywhere. The solution to the problem was different and Slovenia was not lagging behind, but faced it relatively early. The period of the previous governments, especially the activities of the Social Democrats, has been marked mainly by the successful and correct cooperation of policies, professions and economies and affected by the consequences of the use and exposure of asbestos, of course within the framework of the material capacity of the State and within the framework of the existing knowledge of the harmful effects of asbestos on human health. Today the Slovenian state is much richer, more experienced than it was ten years ago. We also know much more about asbestos and the harmful consequences of its use than we knew ten years ago. We have also raised the concept of negotiating the social partners at this time to a much higher level. Nevertheless, the new authorities are ignoring this issue. The law that we are re-deciding today has been written without respect for the profession, the social partners have not been taken into account, and the affected people have been completely overlooked, despite different promises, that we are not even talking about the opposition's proposals. The coalition was unwilling to accept even the most innocent amendments. Colleagues in the coalition are likely to accuse me of demagogies, although this is not the case, as the facts speak otherwise. The position of the Social Democrats on this issue has been unchanged for several years, and even before the introduction of this law into the National Assembly, we have warned that no law that excludes patients who did not directly work with asbestos is acceptable to us, but were exposed to it because of the daily presence in the environment which has been contaminated with asbestos. It is also a fact that rarely any law has triggered such a wave of resentment and opposition to those affected as it is. I also do not know that the State Council would ever demand a re-decision on any law without a vote. We certainly have not experienced such a unified and coordinated opposition under any law in this mandate. I'm not going to comment here. This is also the law when we have witnessed the openly misleading hands of coalition Members to trample their consciences and vote on the government's command. To sum up: the signs that there is something seriously wrong with this law are more than enough, but it seems that so far there is still too little to prepare the coalition to listen to someone else at some point and shake off its rule system. But it's still time. It is time to reject this law today and to come to a more just law in a patient dialogue, along with the social partners and the affected. Therefore, I call on the honourable Members and Members of the Coalition to listen to us this time, and do not support the law at the time of the re-voting, at least some of us will otherwise find it difficult to look your fellow citizens in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. It's mag. Figures
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will reconfirm the law because, in the given circumstances, there is actually no other better, rational decision. I also do not agree with the wishes, in fact, the demands of some who are shown to be rather demagogistic and populist, in order to extend rights in a way that allows these rights to be disputed in such a way that even for similar other diseases or beneficiaries, the same compensation or cooperation of the State may be required. I believe that there are very few countries in Europe or in the world that allow people who have suffered from specific asbestososis in the workplace to replace and recover the consequences of this title. The law extends rights according to previous legislation, which was not the right legislation because it was time-limited, and costs, if you can say so, divide between the company and the country in a 40:60% ratio. As a result, under the same conditions, the dissemination of rights could be from an economic point of view, as well as from a budgetary point of view, a path in a far too unknown direction. Therefore, I believe that this way of dealing with the consequences, because there can be a lot of these impacts in the working environment, in the home environment and in the environment as such. For a number of people, it is also likely that professionally looking for the causes and causes and for those who owe it to repay the damage caused. This is also possible in these cases. It is only about what rights the law provides directly. I believe that the most rational situation in this situation, as the law states, is that we do not have the law and think, but very carefully, in the direction of searching, perhaps a solution for asbestos patients, but above all be careful here and take into account all the circumstances that may arise from this. Both from the constitutional rights of equal treatment, asbestososis, as an example of disease, is an exception to scientifically established cases and is unlikely to be applied to other similar cases in terms of equality. I'll support the marriage. Personally, I would be very happy if this were to happen, for as a student, I had installed saloons, asbestos plates, and if I were to find out or develop a suitable disease, I would simply demand compensation. I was a student at work with my uncle. In those days, 30 or 40 years ago, asbestos panels were actually "in", a modern practical material, and if I had a disease, I might even be entitled under this law to receive adequate compensation. The spread of these matters would in fact be very, very uncertain and I believe that a serious thought is needed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Vice President Peca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. They say an individual is only aware when he is in this condition or when a relative receives it, in short, he is in close contact. However, I have a feeling that, both in the previous term and in this mandate, we are very ignorant of this disease, which, unfortunately, is one of those diseases that we can say for sure that its effects and its identification occur only later. Allow me to remind this National Assembly of the fact that we are the institution that adopts the content of the laws. That's why the entire speech by the minister and all those who advocate this partial solution seems completely uninhabitable to me. You forget your role and forget your function. This National Assembly is the one that regulates which systemic aspect the law will address, which part of the citizens will be dealt with by the law. And a proposal opposed by such opposition in local communities, which of course is not very important, but this proposal, which is opposed by asbestos patients, is a bad proposal. The proposal, which selects or separates people in its content, separates patients, better said. And that's based on the fence. It is best to show that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is seeking to make an assessment of the non-replaceable division. This is the first time that asbestos particles from a factory cannot physically cross the boundaries of this factory. In my opinion, of course, this kind of starting point is wrong. To talk about it and just about it and to define the solution to the restriction in the law, it's not life. According to my assessment, the National Assembly, in addition to not being aware of its role in the last term, is only blindly and blindly following government solutions, regardless of whether they are good or bad. In my opinion, given that the issue of asbestos and the danger associated with asbestos has already been discussed in the previous and this mandate, we should once adopt a law that will address matters from a to a, irrespective of the title of the law. And if I have already mentioned the title of the law, i.e. the decision on the law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos, the fact is that it does not follow from this title that this law covers exclusively the area within the factory boundaries. And the same argument that the Minister used to follow the law to follow the title of the law, we can use all those who we are to respect the normative part of the constitution that speaks of equality, which says that people should not be separated on the basis of a border, whether they live on the left or on the right side of the factory. In my opinion, we could ask ourselves here very calmly, who is the primitive who advocates such a legal solution. And speaking of the content of the law in connection with the title of the law, it makes sense to stress once again the words spoken before me by my colleague Friend, one of the co-signers of the said matter, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is afraid that there will be not enough money for compensation. But that's another question. With that same reply yesterday, the Prime Minister intimidated us when we talked about taxes, but we must be aware of at least this house, in the National Assembly, which we are enacting laws that this is one of those ever-green replies from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Member Friend mentioned the amount of three billion Slovenian tolars, which are intended only for renting premises in which our ambassadors or representatives sit abroad, and that this amount will increase to 4 billion in 2007. He showed you a financial calculation of how on one very simple case it is possible to obtain the necessary financial resources in order to fulfil that part of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that people should not be separated on the basis of the disease. In today’s case, however, it is not just the separation of people based on disease, but it is the recognition of the right of some to determine their illness, but some do not. So the government of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister Drobnič, and all those who advocate this, in my opinion, a very flawed solution, defend the theory that it must not be admitted that some have unfortunately been sick for this disease, and those who live by the factories. There are many cities, I think that Comrade Bevk has made a very correct, very taxive list of where the signs of asbestos will appear in the future or where new hotspots will be identified. And why, then, if these are commonly known facts, we close our eyes today. According to my assessment and according to my behaviour in the work of this National Assembly and the governments, we have not witnessed many times the promise that we will accept part of the solution in another law. But whenever we heard this proposal for a solution, it always turned out that the part that we did not include in the marriage would be translated into a longer period of time. And if it is a personal offense to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is primarily that it does not want to face the issue in its entirety. The entire meeting on asbestos was held by this State Assembly and, above all, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in recent months not only through the amendments of various parliamentary groups, not only through the views given, but through the normal legislative procedure. And let us return to that basic phase of the functioning of this national assembly, which is more losing its constitutional function from day to day, so that it is aware that we are enacting laws. We do not have to accept everything the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes. We are the sovereign decision-making body and the only one with the right to adopt or reject individual law. As long as this principle or this thought prevails, that anything in this country in the field, I will give an example of asbestos, says Mr Drobnič, which is the only solution, is, of course, sorry, but I will say again, wrong and wrong logic. That's what I hope to say. In his speech, the Minister said that they did not hold to the State Council's arguments, that they did not hold the arguments of those who constituted the State Council, both employers and employees, as well as all other interested communities. In other words, this means that Mr Drobnič, the Minister of State, and the one who today tells that the disease would have been discovered to have come to the actual situation of all those living outside the fence, not bordering, but blocking a factory, not allowing the opinion of employers, not the opinion of all those who are in any way connected, or territorially or through politics, by resolving this issue. It is, of course, very reasonable to point out another duality of Slovenian politics, but the fact is, of course, we have to talk about politics, because we are politicians. The speech was made by one of the speakers before me, that in some countries of the European Union, and I believe that there is probably nowhere in Africa or Asia, that they do not recognise asbestososis or acknowledge the detection of asbestos, let alone financial compensation for disease. Of course, I believe there are different arrangements in different countries. But when we think about what happened at European level, what happened with the change in the stay of MEPs, among whom are these same MEPs from the UK or the United Kingdom, England, we come to that position quite quickly, that when we talk about the fear of politicians from such a disease, they change it very quickly for ourselves. They reshaped or demolished Parliament for fear and order of the fact that it was built from building elements that allowed asbestos particles to spray in their contents. And that is why it seems to me, at least that part of the speech of one of the Members before me, who spoke if they did nothing in the UK in this area, not in Slovenia either. But I think that the area of disease is one of those areas that should not be comparable or should not be compared to the question of how such matters are, especially when there is no unity in Europe in this area, so we cannot give a comparison. And let me conclude that, at least after my assessment, one of the elements that suggests the seriousness of dealing with this problem and, of course, of my incredulousness is that I would trust government speakers to face this issue another time. When we adopted or rejected this law in the past period, and in the majority of you have adopted it, one of the government MPs has seen quite a bit of voice through the TV diary's computer. How can such a Member be trusted, who, at the time of the consideration of this law, is accompanied by a computer, regardless of the fact that it was a daily information show, how such a Member should be believed to be concerned with such a matter, or that it is of interest to him. How can he be trusted only that he will someday come to terms with a solution if today is not enough to listen to this content and at least try to understand it? But today the matter was no different. When the presentation of my position was given by my fellow Member, Happy Friend, Minister Drobnič made a telephone call. Despite all the criticism, despite all the fear exposed to a very strong argument, the minister conducts a telephone conversation. Now I see that one of my colleagues, I think Comrade Štebet, is in the way of my debate. I believe that you are disturbed by the fact that we are meeting with a law that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow you to correct or create such a law to touch the content that it at least partially dictates in its address. The fact is that the law is not the title, I stress, of the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos inside factories. That's not the title of this law. The law bears the title in its content: Eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos. So it's a broader concept. And we must not separate citizens and citizens on the basis of an iron fence separating the company. In the National Party, as already said by my colleague Happy Friend, and I believe that the position will of course apply because we are monitoring the content of the debate and because we are following the matter a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Let me say that if I don't limit the debate anywhere, I won't do it when it comes to such important goods as health and life. It's Mr. Potch's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you very much. My colleague, Sam Bevk, and many other Members of Parliament and Members, at all stages of the adoption of the law, have indeed engaged with many arguments to prove that the content of the proposed law is not appropriate, that it does not cover all those who have become sick of asbestos and other diseases, that it does not solve their serious problem and that it is imperative to amend and supplement the law. This was supported or encouraged by all who became sick, through the union and through society. And it would be time for the appropriate substantive solutions to be learned and adopted by the government. Today, not as public as the towers say the government will do it. Perhaps once, perhaps she will persuade MEPs and MPs from Primorska to file a law, she may later have serious comments on the proposals of the law, as she had before, indeed with the first-signed Bevk, the coastal MPs and MPs passed the law, but was slightly rejected by the State Assembly. We don't know what's going to happen until the government figures it out on its own, no matter what people's problems are, when it's the right time to solve it. I firmly believe that this is unacceptable and that it would be possible, if only there was a will, to regulate the real content with amendments and additions to this law. Today this is no longer possible because it is vetoed, but it is possible if we reject the law on the basis of the veto of the State Council and adopt a common obligation to create a new content as soon as possible. There's something else I'd like to point out. I don't think it's just human, but it's also formally a lot of questions about whether we can talk about equality of people in relation to this law. When we talk about health, equality is not guaranteed because it is not essential how the disease occurred. Is it really only for a factory fence or a few kilometers outside of it or in other ways? It is essential that the disease has occurred, the State must enable the disease to be identified and must also approach compensation in the event that the disease has occurred. Therefore, I am truly convinced that today's law on the basis of the veto of the State Council should not be confirmed and that this is the only and best way for us to come to the right solution in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Skolcz to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's the shortest summary. The State Council shall formulate the reasons for rejecting the law by the following sentence: the disease should be recognised to all patients who suffer from any of the diseases due to asbestos exposure, irrespective of the time of exposure, the density of the fibre to which they have been exposed and no matter how long the exposure to asbestos has elapsed. Asbestos-related diseases occur exclusively because of asbestos exposure, and I repeat, regardless of time, density and so on. These are sufficient arguments for us to vote against. It is not possible to accept a perverse argument that there are many other occupational diseases and that these other occupational diseases do not have the right legislative solution not to listen to asbestos patients. As a result, no other occupational illness will be better or worse if at least things are done here. And secondly, it is not possible to attract those who claim to be unemployed in a factory because they are not employed, they are only living near a factory, they cannot be victims of a occupational disease. This is, I will say, unworthy cynicism when it is expressed by power, and it is unworthy cynicism when it serves as an argument to reject the idea that certain rights are recognised, even for those who have suffered from asbestos dust, but have not been employed in working organisations. However, this decision has another important dimension. And this dimension is the question of how parliamentary democracy works. It is true that even when we ask that question, there will really be no direct effects on the people who are doing so. And they'll be in the middle of it for sure. If the Council of State has the right, by constitutional means, to possibly have solutions which it considers to be weak, vetoes, this is a transparent operation. If a non-existent body is involved in such decision-making, I do not know how to name it, the disciplinary commission of the government or coalition will call it, then there is something wrong with this parliamentary decision. All of us have heard that this non-existent body shares black and red dots and other dots due to the votes in the National Assembly. Let us allow Members, by the Constitution, to vote in their conscience, that the great question is what is tangled up in the heads of those who distribute black and red dots and thereby degrade people, virtually not as members of Parliament, but as those who need some kind of treatment that is in kindergarten. However, this disciplinary commission acts intransparency, disciplines people, does not argue its own matters. And this is a major problem with this decision because it does not work transparently because it demonstrates the power of power and of the majority, but does not represent arguments for individual determinations. This is also worth considering when we look at the lists of these votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you. Thank you also for leading Vice-President Pavlich so far. Given that there have been some changes among the Members announced, I will read the following six. The first one will be Ambassador Milenko Zicherl, followed by Dr Pavliha, followed by Mr Stanislav Brenčič, followed by Ambassador Pečanov, followed by Ambassador Davorin Terčon and followed by Ambassador Srečko Friend. As I say, I give the floor to Ambassador Milenk Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I myself believe that the existing law was appropriate and that a veto day is essentially unnecessary. It is difficult to talk about dangers or occupational diseases, since new and new questions are always being raised in this area, or people are never sufficiently protected. In time, there are some consequences in each job. I support the existing law in particular because it defines the cessation of asbestos production and the replacement of new materials, and further discusses how to destroy or store useless or replaced asbestos products. However, I would particularly like to stop when the exposed neighbours also want to be involved. In this way, there will never be a border between those who are justified and those who are not justified. Asbestos himself was said in the debate so much that I have the feeling that it is an extremely dangerous substance, and if I make a quick decision, I would be less afraid to grab the yellow cake than the asbestos plate, even though some ten of them will have to be put into destruction and proper feeding when the construction shed is demolished. In addition to the risk of asbestos, other diseases or asbestos are replaced by new, more modern fibers. This may be glass wool or stone wool. More modern fibers contain appropriate chemicals. In particular, aluminium atoms are embedded in both wools and the fibers become biosoluble. If the fibres are biotopic, as confirmed by the relevant international institutions, they shall be marked RAL. The RAL code has both stone and glass wool, otherwise they would have disappeared from the market. I think they're quite a substitute for asbestos. However, this production also identifies workers' exposure. Will this be shown in a few years from now in the case of workers producing rock wool or glass wool, and they may develop another dangerous disease, that is, siliconosis, or will discussions be necessary as is now the case with asbestos? I would like to draw attention to another production that has had far less attention unjustifiably than asbestos itself, which is mining in the uranium mine Zirovski vrh. The uranium mine was opened very quickly, with such rapid technologies, revolutionary, and the surrounding area suffered a lot, perhaps more than the first neighbor or the next-door neighbor or that 50 meters from the Anhovo, Donit or any other asbestos company. Where do we get some kind of justice around here? Where can we provide the neighbors of the uranium mine who may have suffered more than in the area to receive some just compensation? That is why I think that the existing law, which speaks of asbestos, fully corresponds to the situation in Slovenia, and, as it is said, I will support it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you for your discussion. As I said earlier, I give the floor to Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say something in particular about this law. I think it is strange that we have always doubted that the right of those who are sick or will suffer from asbestos exposure is the same, regardless of what they have done in their lives. That what we have heard a few times today is, in fact, equality before marriage. That asbestos was a substance, a substance that, regardless of whether you were working directly at the workplace where you directly took asbestos into your hands and invested it in a machine, that came from it, whether you were working in an office that was 300 metres away from that job, or were you employed by a company that was carrying out maintenance work in a factory when the factory was resting when workers, where asbestos products were made, went on collective leave and were brought in by operators who were maintaining the factory, who were restoring the machinery that had arranged the premises and raised the imprecise amounts of asbestos powder and inhaled it. Or you were a neighbor of this factory or a policeman who worked at a crossroads or at a border crossing where car drivers were released day after day, hour after hour and minute by car and loaded, at home, by asbestos fibers into the air and inhaled by this officer, this customs officer, and they were inhaled by workers in road crossings and so on. What difference does it make between someone who has never done anything in his life about asbestos and who lived next to a factory that used asbestos as a basic raw material? Or what is the difference between the worker who came to the shipyard in Isola, who was employed by the cooperative of this shipyard and this law, which we will be deciding about today, does not give him the same right as the worker of the same shipyard to receive compensation so that he can be early disabled and so on. What's the difference between one and the other workers in the yard? What is the difference between one and another workers in Salonito Anhovo? What is the difference between a worker in a Maribor vehicle factory or a police officer who worked at a border crossing and never thought he was exposed to asbestos fibers in his life? What's the difference? And who is the one who will prove to me or anyone here in or outside this hall that too much money is needed for something that we, in this country, in the country that was called Yugoslavia, and in the country that is called Slovenia, that we did not, when we barely learned that asbestos was as harmful as it is, immediately stopped any use of asbestos, that we did not immediately ban production and that we also did something that today's employers, who still allow workers to work unprotected in spaces where asbestos is being lifted. And we read it in the paper, and a fellow Member read it, and he simply kept it quiet. When I read that article the last time we adopted or adopted a law in the last reading, one of the Members read an article by a doctor from Golnik and did not read what she also wrote in it, that in TVT Maribor today workers work without adequate protection in an atmosphere where asbestos fibres are released. He didn't read it. Here, then, is the purely technical question: Is this law sufficient in this part to say that the employer who has not taken care of the safety of the workers working with asbestos removed since 1996 must not only pay the worker full compensation and not be able to repress the remaining part of the compensation to the country, but must also pay the penalty for the fact that something such as this has caused workers to remain at risk of being exposed to asbestos fibres and with this asbestosase, which is not fatal, but to the only cancer that has been proven to be caused by exposure to asbestos fibres or specifically specified substances. We can talk long and wide that smoking causes cancer, that causes cancer, that causes cancer, but nowhere do we have accurate evidence. Only asbestos is known to cause mesothelioma. And no other substance does. It is said that whoever today confirms this law or rejects the veto will simply reject any responsibility for the things that are still happening in a civilized country, which we consider to be unacceptable, despite what we have all heard today. And one more thing. I believe that the excuses about how unfair it would be - I don't understand it at all, such a mental link that it would be unfair to admit to all the Slovenians who are suffering from mesothelioma, regardless of what they have done. We never talked about being compensated only by those living next to Salonita Anhovo. No, no, no. All those with proven asbestososis have the right to compensation. What caused this asbestososis is of secondary importance and only here should there be a difference. If asbestos is caused by exposure to the workplace, this is classified as a occupational disease and the employer is obliged to pay something, but if there is no connection, it is the duty of the State to pay for it because the State has reacted untimely to the known fact that asbestos has caused such and such consequences. And that's why I think, colleagues and colleagues, think about it before you press the veto button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you. I give the floor to Vice President Pavliha. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Comrade Vice President. I didn't want to discuss it, because apparently I am in a bad voice, and by morning I was sure it was for health reasons, but now I find it also because of the allergy, the allergy to the present law, because it is unethical because it is unjust and not inhuman. They say that the consumer is always right to be king. Then this is all the more so for the patient, especially for the patient who needs help because of the endangered two goods, which are our constitutional and also internationally recognized goods - health and a healthy environment. And every civilized country must, on the basis of its constitutions, its rules and international conventions, take care to preserve these goods. Today we have heard some misleading arguments why this law should be an upgrade to the previous one and why there is no more to be done. Let me just mention two. The first referred to the financial effects that a regulation would have which would allow the spread of a circle of beneficiaries. And the second observation related to the problem of defining the environment, how many meters should one live or act from the source of cancer infection, to be entitled to compensation, to the fact that there will still be a causal link between the illegal fact and the injury or disease. Let me tell you a case that I know very well, and this is where I first met asbestos. The problem, the fate of one of the biggest, if not the largest and oldest insurance companies in the world, including Lloyds of London. In the second half of the '80s, Lloyds started to break down in the early '90s and break to the point where he was almost on his knees. Why? After decades, claims for asbestos insurance began to appear massively, particularly from the United States. The reaction to the appearance was simple, but of course with severe consequences. With much delay, and due to the lack of age or extremely long limitation period, the patients sued their former employers, the factory, the companies, and they had secured liability with Lloyds, and of course Lloyds was obliged to pay for billions of pounds, many unions went bankrupt, a number of so-called names that in Lloyds as a special insurance corporation cooperated, even committed suicide because they could not carry on a bank break, but Lloyds still remained, as pressure from the British government, pressure from consumer protection organizations and elsewhere was so great that it was easy to pay these claims, and the courts, from the top of the House of Lloyds in Britain, were reluctant to interpret a very basic rule of compensation law. Approximately this is the case, three elements, an illegal fact or act, and an asbestos dangerous thing, a dangerous substance is obviously, caused by damage, health damage, death or anything else, and of course a causal relationship. And if the causal link is given, then it is totally irrelevant whether this radiation was in some 50 meters or 500 meters or 500 kilometers in diameter, and the courts interpreted all these cases as extensively, in doubt, for the benefit of the patients, the injured, not for the benefit of the ministry, but for the benefit of the state, to the benefit of the one who wants to have as little cost as possible with those who are so threatened and who have not only had bad luck, but a great deal of disaster. That is why I think that we should really think about this today, without competing again for prestige, whether it is prestigious for the coalition to really adopt this law, or whether it will be prestigious for us opposition Members to achieve that the law will not be passed. No, no, no. We change existing regulations when we change them for the better and correct mistakes. And we in the opposition are also prepared to acknowledge the mistakes of the past, in particular those in politics that are not enough time to even be responsible for these mistakes. Today we have heard again who opposes the law, and others have joined the list, starting with the State Council. There is also a profession, civil society, patients, President Drnovšek, competent parliamentary committee, opposition. What is demagogy? Clearly, then, all those who oppose this law are wrong, and we are behaving demagogically, but the handful is right. And more. Even some Members of the post oppose this law, and what happened to our four colleagues in DeSUS is, in my mind, outrageous political pressure, brainwashing, something that may have happened during the one-party system. Read once again the first paragraph of Article 82, which says that we are Members and Members of all the people and are not bound by any instructions. Such instructions that have now come to our colleagues from DeSUS, of which two are valued, respected, internationally recognized doctors, please, this is too much! And this is too much for the most tolerant and kind of man. I will therefore re-vote against the law because I give a decisive advantage to life before death. If I were to quote From, I would say that I prefer biophilic orientation to necrophilic because I prefer health to disease and people to politics. Dear colleagues and colleagues, now is the opportunity to change the idea of partnership and words into actions to give a hand together to those who see in us the last hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you, Dr. Pavlich. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In these long debates to come to a bad marriage if this happens again today, almost everything has already been said and it is difficult for a person to find any innovative words. But I'll try to add something else. So what I think is important is that I do not understand this stubborn insistence of the ruling coalition on this solution, because in my personal opinion, in terms of the financial consequences, the solution that we are proposing for a wider range of beneficiaries who have been exposed to the negative impact of asbestos may even be minor. As we have heard in the discussions on the working body and here, there are few of these cases. And if we draw a comparison with the law that we will be deciding again at the next point, these cases are negligible. There we are talking about about about 5,000 beneficiaries, and there are, as we have heard, very few. So, I understand that the ruling coalition, if it wants some order in the country, has to stick together on some fundamental points, otherwise the system is collapsing. But why insist on this so sensitive point, which has financially so negligible consequences, and why go back with regulation. Unless, of course, we find a well-known fact: that when the government is more inclined and more responsive to social problems, although it is sometimes confused, the right, when the government, is more inclined to authoritarian leadership and less sensitive to social problems. And here is a typical example - in this arrangement we are going a step back from the existing arrangement. I remember your discussions about how savagely we own, when my client was still in the ruling coalition and so on, we create - the minister laughs nicely, he was one of the main protagonists, and now he has no feeling for the socially vulnerable, absolutely nothing. Minister, a few of your speeches would be good if you turned to compare, it would look nice today. You'd see how easy it is for one to move. I appeal again primarily to those Members, because today the obvious decision will be very narrow, which is close to them, who know this problem, that they will reconsider and decide for the benefit of the people. You know, when we meet in the hallways, we talk about things. And I told you, Members of Parliament and Members of the ruling coalition, we, too, have had such borderline cases when the government has bent on us, colleagues who are now in the ranks of Members, because it has had financial consequences a hundred times greater than possible. My colleague Bevk will tell you how we prepared a law that deals with concession taxes because they were for the benefit of the people on the ground in the environment, not the state and the state bureaucracy. And yet we have endured ten times the size of the case. And why don't you stand up for the benefit of the people? Why must this obedience to you, to those who command you, be more important than people's problems? Think again. Decide for the benefit of the people. That would be good for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you, Comrade Terchon. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot help but read a petition in support of Members who will vote against the proposal for a law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos. Under the text were signed by Franz Simčič, the president of the regional organisation DeSUS Tolmin, Jože Žbogar, the president of the regional organisation DeSUS Channel, Srečko Markič, the president of the main organisation of Nova Slovenije Canal, Milena Chargo, the president of the SDS Channel, Ivan Humar, signed the regional committee of the Slovenian People's Party Channel. Everyone who is my fellow Members from Primorska, when you are today before the fact that you are voting, think about who voted for you. I say this because it rarely happens that the blind see that the deaf hear again. So you don't say you didn't know that, I read it. Colleagues said that we have a financial unforeseeable effect if we generally take the environmental aspect into account. The money I mentioned earlier at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being shot through an open window, while the government has been paying rents worldwide for consular representations, diplomatic housing and ambassadorial residences. As I said before, one third of this money would be sufficient to pay annuity, to rent loans, and these apartments and buildings would be ours after a certain period of time, the property of the state of Slovenia. But the rest could be earmarked for those patients who are waiting to die, and the rest would be left. More than a billion and a half would have stayed out of these two billion. Of course, I'm disgusted to see you label people red and black under the law that sets minimum rights for asbestos patients who must have 100% as a result of death. And it will be a shame for anyone who supports this government law, for today the government has had the opportunity to see that everything it prepares is not good. Even when we adopted this law, there was a large enough indication that the government proposal was not good because almost all the articles had been tabled by government parties. And yet today, the minister is talking about how good this marriage was. But almost every article has been amended by the poor Members. Of course, these amendments have been taken into account, ours, together with the Social Democrats, non-chalantly rejected. So, if this is really a disgraceful act, labelling red and black in such an important matter that there is no way out for the sick, then I can say that it is even more shameful that it is a matter of general mobilisation when the government has ordered and ordered all its Members today that they must vote in favour of its government proposal, unless there is much that can happen. I have spoken to a number of Members of Parliament today, as well as to my colleagues from the railways, two of them are here. I'm not going to mention that I'm not going to give a replica, but now they're having a nice conversation, both of them, not interested in the problems on the railways, which is the only one present in the sense of asbestos, but this company is 100% owned by the state. I have also asked a question of my own, I have appealed to the Minister, I have asked him to take action with his inspections and with his powers in this company, but I do not believe that anything essential will happen. So, this law, if today is truly so shamefully confirmed and announced, will be one great shame for all and I believe also for you, Mr Minister, who is moving today, when you say that this marriage is good and better than before, it is not true. This is, I can't say a lie, but a lie, but it will probably cause major social unrest.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you, my friend. We continue the debate. I give my word to Ambassador Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u112	Your Honor! Of course, I will support the law once again, because I am convinced that the asbestos law is a suitable foundation for ensuring the social security of persons who have received occupational diseases due to working with asbestos. I am also sure that the current law is better than the previous one, and, of course, I cannot sit on the swaths of some debaters who are trying in an unfair, unacceptable way, cheaply to get political points at the expense of sick citizens and citizens who are or will be sick because of the consequences of contact or working with asbestos. I am also sure that these debaters do not do this maliciously and that the matter that we are discussing is what they understand. As the Council of State states in its veto that the current law banning the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in asbestos has already provided wider rights to also categories of residents who have actually resided or engaged in certain activities or who have been employed in companies located or located in the area of business premises, companies where asbestos or asbestos has been processed or stored, but which have not been fully transposed into the law adopted. This claim is of course not true. Not only is it not true, but I am even convinced that those who so claim are misleading everyone who is burdened by the asbestos problem, because the previous law, despite the fact that the first article will stipulate that it also provides for the health and social security of the people who have been exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos, does not even mention in the other provisions of the population. In fact, it only gives the right to workers who have been employed only in the production, processing and storage of asbestos. So far, no person who has not been employed in companies where she has been professionally exposed to asbestos has been entitled under the previous law. Therefore, the claim that the previous law also confers rights on the inhabitants of the area is not true and the new law does not violate existing rights in this respect. Once again, I reiterate that the purpose and purpose of the law in question is to ensure the social security of workers who have received occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos and to assist economic companies liable to those workers and their business would be compromised if they had to pay full compensation. For the end of my debate, I would like to explain to Mr Bevk, Školč and Mr Terčon that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are thinking with our heads and are decisive arguments for us, not the discipline you are talking about. Therefore, I ask you, with your own experience, although they are difficult, do not poison other colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly. This problem needs to be cleared up in your own clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you for explaining. I give my word to Ambassador Joseph Scholch. He's not here. Member Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President-in-Office! Every technological development brings certain benefits to society and often also has many harmful effects, both in the environment and in human health. We use materials, new materials that we think are harmless to health and the environment in good faith, but in time it turns out that this is not true and that these materials can be quite harmful to both the environment and human health. And the consequences of using such materials also have the most tragic effects on human health. We know that in Slovenia as well as in other countries we have many substances in use that have polluted or polluted the environment today. We also have one in Slovenia. In Semich, where the production of capacitors was carried out with the so-called PCB, we still have an environment with this substance contaminated, as well as water, and we have proven there also a number of people who have received cancer as a result of these substances, and none of these people have received any compensation or any conditions for early retirement or retirement under more favourable conditions. Today we also use a number of chemical resources for agriculture, starch. We know that in a few years we will be able to witness again to the conclusion that all these substances cause many diseases, including incurable diseases. Today we know that passive smoking also causes cancer, causes many diseases, and unfortunately we have not taken any more important steps to date in this area. More than that, we still use a lot of this substance today. Now we must certainly ask ourselves who is responsible for all these substances that are environmentally harmful or affect human health. Is only the country responsible or are the producers responsible, or are they users, or are we all, last but not least? I agree with the fact that the State is certainly the first one to be concerned about preventing the use of harmful substances, but can only interfere when the harmfulness of the substance is professionally justified. I agree that the state is then trying to ease the difficulties, but there is no way that it can prevent or restore things to their original state. Here I am thinking, above all, that a sick person cannot be healed with any such great compensation. And here to impose some high compensation on the state for such cases, I think it is irresponsible. The law that we are considering today is one of such laws that try to mitigate the consequences of working with asbestos within those frameworks that our society can still bear. However, I find it difficult to imagine the consequences for our society, for Slovenia, if this law tried to involve all people who have become sick or will suffer from asbestos for two reasons. The first is certainly that the financial burden would be unsustainable, both for us and for our later generations. However, another aspect is that this law would then be incorrect to those who have also suffered from the harmful effects of the environment or harmful substances at work as well as outside work. As far as I am aware, we do not yet have any law in Slovenia that would thus regulate the disease for some other consequences of environmental or material effects. And none of these have been compensated. Here I would only touch, as I mentioned earlier, the consequences of the harmfulness of secondhand smoking. On Saturday, I saw not a comment in one of the Slovenian newspapers, but an article stating that 303 people died in Slovenia in 2002 as a result of second-hand smoking. There are 79,000 such cases in the European Union. I'm sure you all agree with me that even in Slovenia we have not done everything we can to prevent smoking in public spaces or wherever people do not smoke. For me, this number is frightening, and I hope that we will do something about it. 303 persons who died in 2002 were more than suffering from asbestos, and at least according to the data I have, no compensation was paid to all of these 303 people, and there were also no claims for this or the possibility that people who had also suffered from second-hand smoking could retire under favourable conditions. I will support the asbestos law in the proposed form because it is either in an corrective way or in an optimal way to resolve the situation we are facing in Slovenia. I agree that this is not a solution that would satisfy everything, but in such a form it is correct for all patients who have, in one way or another, fallen ill in Slovenia or will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirca to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u116	I'm a little short on the interpretation given by my forerunner, to make sure that death settles everything and does not require debts, and especially compensation. If I go back to the veto and to what scenarios can be rotated through this veto, which I understand as a possibility of correction, the possibility of withdrawal and the possibility of hope on the one hand, or a demonstration of power on the other. The affected, including the association of asbestos unions, believe that the country will be dominated by a sense of humanity over party interests, at least this time when it comes to the health and life of citizens. Coalition partners, not everything, but mostly coalition partners, believe that these are the arguments when we talk about life and health, manipulation, and a knock on emotions. Some talk about political floscules. Personally, I think they are at work of emotion, but this moment of political nature. Emotions between coalition partners. The coalition did not consider the positions of the State Council, Mr Minister. The coalition did not consider the arguments of doctors, patients, trade unions, the president of the country, etc. That the coalition did not contemplate the opposition's arguments, I understand because the arrogance would not allow it. But the coalition imagined the state of things in its own kind. She'd rather take a small look at the votes and analyze the non-observants, as you said, petechialists, divers and paratroopers. Not all of them, but the disobedient, cornered ones, had to offer new texts and new scenarios. This led to new interpretations. That when the law is passed, it will be supervised that if it is adopted, it will be corrected to write a new law covering those who do not belong to this law, in order to prepare an integrated approach, in order to amend the law if necessary. If all of this is promised, if all of these texts are present, why are the conditions for making the way easier, when it is finally offered by the State Council, not created today. Why? A child’s question can be asked, but with an extremely difficult answer. Because this is about prestige, unfortunately. And we are once again in a political decision that will, I can only conclude, overlook and deny the hardships of people. And we can't be around this job.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u117	I call on Ambassador Majdo Potrat to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u118	Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! I will uphold the request of the State Council for a veto to this law. At the same time, I see the treatment of the asbestos law, which I am already meeting in the second term, as an opportunity to raise awareness of the danger of this substance. And that is why I find indignant that some do not take with due seriousness warnings that the removal of asbestos products that are in our environment also poses a threat to those who do so and to the environment. I'm referring to the recent spectacular scene of the demolition of the old celebratory cuneiform structures. Then we listen to some who point out the dangers of asbestos water pipes. In the previous term, however, we heard the findings of experts who found that pipes were less dangerous because they were covered with limestone packagings loaded with water flowing through these pipes. And we've heard one and the other conclusions. But what we are currently discussing is not even the question of how many dangerous substances there are in our environment, since over time we have only come to know certain dangers, whether it is mercury or asbestos or lead or some other dangerous substance. Today, the talk is about the righteous expectation of people exposed to asbestos that their desire for compensation will be irreplaceable, and this is health, somehow fulfilled, and it seems that we are more into weighing whether it was a better previous or a better present law. The position of the sick: there is no better way to talk about any of these two laws of established health. However, we are very careful when faced with the experience of the Western world, which is called the recognition of compensation for the loss of health. This is how we like to refer, in particular, to the experience of the United States of America. If this is what they want to refer to, then even in this case when it comes to compensation. However, I think that this law is the worst in the part that leaves the beneficiaries out of the circle of those who were in the environment in which they were affected by the negative effects of asbestos, but cannot prove that they were employed in the workplace where they were to be dealt with with with asbestos. My fellow Members, Sam Bevk and colleague Breda Pečan, who have dealt with asbestos issues in the previous and previous mandates, know to say much more about the genetics of the problems we are facing, so I would like to point out that even in Maribor there are a lot of those who might expect the legal provisions to result in compensation, not only for those who worked with asbestos, but also for those who were in the immediate vicinity. I can't deal with this kind of attitude towards the sick and the injured to say, let's do it later, so I'm going to do what I've done for the first time in re-voting this law, so I'm not going to support such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mag. Anton Rope. He's not here. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. So, honourable fellow Members and Members. Here today, several times, I have heard from opposition Members that we were Members of the ruling coalition on some kind of disciplinary committee, but I must say that this is a very sweet plot. They will already know how these procedures were regulated in the past when they disciplined their colleagues here in the National Assembly, that they would then have to vote as decided at a higher level. But as far as we are concerned, we have actually confirmed this law once before, and we are not going to change our position today. Not particularly because this law refers to employees and employees' rights. Thus, this law actually extends the range of beneficiaries, not only to employees in Salonito Anhovo, what is an old law, and if today the law was not passed, then this law, which has been in force so far, would mean that the circle of beneficiaries is much narrower than it is under this law. This law is also much clearer because the state can no longer decide arbitrarily, but the compensation is fixed, it is said that 60% is paid by the State and 40% by an economic company in which a patient is employed. It is not possible with this law, as some here like to discuss today, to extend these matters to everyone outside the work process. For if we are to talk about it, then we need to keep in mind all environmental impacts affecting the health status of the population. I remember, for example, when, in our previous term as an opposition, we passed a law on the replacement of asbestos pipes, which were the discussions in this house. Look at those magnetograms! But the opposition can afford it, the opposition can also propose such solutions. The opposition does not have to ask about the financial implications of its proposals, and the government coalition must always drive the matter in such a way that it is financially sustainable. These proposals, for example, to replace all asbestos roofs, all asbestos pipes, although they can be very well-intentioned, but are, in fact, in view of the financial implications. We can talk, but we can't make it happen. Once again, this law extends the circle of beneficiaries. Now there's something else. I am not a doctor myself, and, of course, in this National Assembly, I expected doctors to talk about this disease from a professional point of view and not a political point of view. Indeed, the fact is that cancer today is the result of a variety of natural influences. And as much as I could read myself about asbestos, which causes the worst forms of lung cancer, I could find in writing that asbestos fibers, even though they cause cancer, are rarely found in the lungs. And I thought that our colleagues would represent this to the Slovenian public from this point of view. And then what is the criterion for making someone sick because of the effect of asbestos dust? I think that this criterion can then be nothing more than someone working with it in the work process. So it's possible that if I use the word, he might have gotten into it. What criteria could then be chosen today, with this behaviour that we have for all other citizens and citizens in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I am not saying that these criteria will not be improved in many ways in a few years, I do not know, 10, 20 years from now, and that in 20, 30 years, there will be a multitude of patients who will be able to tell, on the basis of professional knowledge, what are the causes or causes of this serious disease. This is what we are facing right now, and I think that this debate requires a much more thoughtful approach, but not that I would say, politically like to point out to all patients and actually play on this string, which can be very emotional, for someone who gets very severe, but once again, that I will not be misunderstood, but unfortunately it is so that cancer on the lungs not only causes asbestos fibres, but cancer on the lungs causes a lot of things. You also mentioned smokers here today, and if I say just for a case, lung cancer will also be affected by those who have never smoked in their lives. But it is true that smokers get sick much more often. I believe that the government and ourselves will try to approach this issue in a different way, with another law, actually help to resolve other environmental impacts, i.e. asbestos in those who have never been in the work process and have not worked with asbestos, but we cannot resolve this by means of this law. In fact, this is the opinion of the Council of State and the veto, in my personal opinion, is very empty and I regret, in fact, that the Council of State wanted to build with a veto such a story as we are now witnessing to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you. I invite Member Dimitriy Kovačič to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I didn't agree to a partial solution to the problems myself, so I can't accept the elected veto of the state council well-intentioned. The main observation of opponents of the law is that the law covers only part of the population affected by the direct effect of contact with asbestos. It could, however, be concluded that the law itself is not comprehensive enough because it does not address a number of groups of people who have suffered the negative consequences of exposure to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. However, this is only a visual view, because the law we are talking about cannot solve the other than, for the first time, that it defines occupational and other diseases or the reduction of life functions due to exposure to asbestos dust, and for the second time that it recognises compensation and guarantees the right to pensions under more favourable conditions to all those who have been employed in enterprises in jobs where asbestos has been handled. This is the scope of legislation which allows for immediate implementation and for the resolution of legitimate claims. It is therefore essential that the law enters into force immediately. If, at this point, we had a very broad ambition to regulate asbestos issues in Slovenia, then we would not have such a law today, since we should have examined and then also set very precise criteria on the basis of which we could identify all the direct and indirect harmful effects of asbestos dust on human health. These criteria for determining the framework within which the causal link between the harmful effect of asbestos and the resulting disease is possible must therefore be very precisely defined in order to achieve the purpose of the law and thus ensure the same application for all potential beneficiaries. In addition, it is right to go beyond the asbestos other indirect effects of environmental pollution that have harmful effects on human health. However, for all such indirect impacts, including asbestos, a new comprehensive law needs to be drawn up to address all other evidential adverse effects of environmental pollution, which is not yet covered by existing legislation. This will make all the criticisms of the law under consideration evident and considered to be flawed, even settled. Of course, all other areas where harmful and morbid effects occur will also be regulated in the same way, not just asbestos. Only in a way that will certainly be used by the government in its work and will fully address existing problems in the country will the regulation be accurate and transparent, while ensuring equality before the law and preventing abuses that are otherwise possible in unclear or opaque legislation. That is why I am going to confirm and re-vote the proposed law to which the Council of State voted veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you. My word, Mag. Boruta Saivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The tragedy of asbestos law is clearly coming to an end, and, of course, the end, as for such a story of decency, will be tragic especially for those who have encountered this cruel disease from a close and bitter experience and a message that not all are equal before the law and before the disease. It reminds me of that joke when two people walk down the road and look at each other and one of them says, "Oh, my God, I'm going to fall again." Or like an architect building a house that he knows is likely to support. There are many of us today in this hall who are convinced that marriage is bad, that it is not the best. We have not yet completed the legislative procedure, but for God's sake, why don't we stop, settle these dilemmas and not adopt the law as it should be. We have all the options, and obviously the practice in this National Assembly is to rush things in half-time and half-conceived, and then we'll sort it out somehow. I just don't like this thing and it's not right. These people who have suffered from asbestososis, which is also known in medicine and a well-explored disease, the cause of which is asbestos fiber, is scientifically proven and confirmed, and therefore is the basis of professional and reasoned action in the right direction as much as you want. I'm concerned that this country seems to be operating too much on military logic. This military logic of humility and obedience also moves to Parliament, but history teaches us that those who do not collect and care for their wounded end badly. Therefore, I call upon all those who will think today to reconsider the matter before themselves, to imagine that from asbestos patients they would be alone in their skin or one of their relatives, and I am sure that the decision would be different, more weighty and thoughtful. In Slovenia, however, we will certainly meet with such and similar stories, but I feel that this country cares much better for smokers, for those who have suffered from liver cirrhosis, whose itiology is well known in the country of wine-growing, taking care of patients with AIDS rather than for asbestos patients. It is obvious that the State is satisfied that, in certain cases, it is a good collector of excise duties and a full budget and that it is not so difficult to recover certain funds from the budget for the dying than it is for this story in asbestos. But you will see, this story with asbestos will happen again in some other technological industries, and we need to imagine in front of our eyes that it is not all about money and money alone. Not particularly in this story, though, because we know that asbestos, like the asbestos fibers that are the main cause of this, is removed from production and from our daily lives. Such fibers, such pipes, such critiques are less every day. This, however, will be a great deal more if we deal with the story in the same way as in Celje, where they literally blew up the covered zinc roof so that these asbestos fibers could spread around the area. We know that asbestos is less and less in our lives every day. We must encourage and support the measures that it reduces, and therefore in this story talk about the extent of the financial consequences being unpredictable, it is simply not serious to talk about this, because we know that we will end a story with this asbestos that will solve the problem of the work of our peoples and residents and that they will be able to count on the help of the country in the future on the basis of this understanding and a better law than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you, Comrade Saiovic. I invite you to my word, Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. She's not here. My word to Dr. Matey Lakhovnik. He's not here. I invite Ambassador Aleš Gulič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u126	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Today we are speaking for the third time, for the fourth time, and for the second time in this Chamber about this law. We're still on the same page. The Council of State has obviously read the law, as we read in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, that we were already at the committee's hearing, as well as here at the first reading of this law, opposed the adoption of a law that divides people. I must say that in later discussions, things have proved to be tougher and sharper than they were at the very beginning. Now it is clear that Minister Petty Officer is squandering people and sowing them for a proper and inappropriate pile. One counts and the other doesn't. One knows exactly how to calculate the financial consequences, and the other, in fact, gives as much as he thinks. One cuts thin bread like a stepmother, and the other sows goodness as if they were heavenly under Triglav. The calculation of the financial implications on the one hand and the reading that they would be even greater if you took into account anything else, it is obvious that he has given something, but he has not yet given anything. On the other hand, cook the pot, and the table comes down and "one" in our places. Let's take a look at the laws of his ministry coming to our tables. One big one, the other nothing. Here, however, the border is set with a barbed wire, a fence around Salonite or Donita or a Remont workshop on the railway. The barbed wire is the one that divides one and the other. Asbestos doesn't know about this, but apparently Minister Petty Officer and the proponents, the writers of this law, do. We tie the disease to whether it was created on the basis of a workbook or on the basis of a ID card where it is registered. These people who live five, ten, fifteen meters away from the fences of these factories, of course they didn't come there on purpose. Most of them were there before. These settlements existed and the factory was given to them. They're not the suicides that moved there, but they're the killers who put the factory next to them. And it has to be evaluated and paid in some way. On the other hand, of course, there is something else that worries me more. This spiritual asbestosism that is taking place in this national assembly. I am very interested in what and what stupidity must come from the government, so that all of us, not only positional, all Members, will realize that we were not appointed by the government, that we were not set by the government, not by the government, not by the party that won the elections, but by all of us personally loved and elected. And that it is an essential task for Parliament, now I am talking about all 90, half that it adopts laws and half that it controls their implementation. And it's not all good that comes from government circles. A lot of things have been adapted. And it's not our job to count and recalculate, but it's the government's job. Me and, of course, everyone in our parliamentary group, I can hope to say it out loud, we will vote in our conscience, and I don't care at all what this conscience will be. I'm not scared. Today we will certainly vote for what we have been elected, and the others you already know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thanks, buddy Gulic. I call to the word of Ambassador Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representative, honourable Members, honourable Members! I'll start with the title of the law. The title of the law, which we are considering again, is the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working With Asbestos. The content of the law under the title of the law will therefore be the treatment of workers who have encountered asbestos in the production process and the provision of assistance in the broadest humane sense of assistance to these workers. The current law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production into non-terrestrially needed to be upgraded, as the restructuring programmes of asbestos production are inexhaustible in Slovenia, thank God, completed. The Council of State states, inter alia, that the current and still applicable so-called asbestos law already confers wider rights on the categories of residents living in the business premises of companies where asbestos or asbestos products have been processed or stored. This claim is not true because the existing law actually confers rights only on workers who have been employed in the production, processing or storage of asbestos. So far, no person who has not been employed in companies where she has been professionally exposed to asbestos has been granted rights under the existing law. I therefore argue that the new asbestos law does not violate existing rights in this regard. On the contrary. The law of justice extends to all those who have processed asbestos that have incorporated asbestos materials that have removed asbestos materials or used them. The new law, I believe, regulates qualitatively, for the first time, occupational diseases related to asbestos, such as plaques, benign pleural effusion, chronic pleural effusion, asbestososis and lung cancer and mesothelioma. Secondly, the law regulates the assessment and payment of lump sum compensation from almost 12,000 euros to a good 41,000 euros, as at least 60% of the state pays, 40% of the company or state is more appropriate if the company is in poor condition or no longer. And the third time. The law regulates the right to a disability pension under more favourable conditions. I must say that I am pleased to hear from the opposition MP that they, i.e. the opposition, would not have hoped to pass the amended law. As regards the requirement of certain members of the opposition species to extend the rights under the law in question to residents from the area of production plants or the area of use of asbestos and asbestos products, I have an important question in this context about what the environment is and how to define this environment, how to determine the radius of this environment. We know railway vehicles use asbestos or asbestos materials. How to define the environment in rail transport? The answer I am giving myself is that this area is the whole of Slovenia or the territory of the Slovenian laws. Then the following question arises to me: What about other causes of cancer or other diseases? In line with the principle of fairness, the State should then protect those who, in their immediate vicinity, have, for example, 150 kilovolts of remote control running through a fragmented settlement. Perhaps someone will refer to underground water currents and feel bad about it. Perhaps someone will refer, the country should also protect people living directly along the road, for example Maribor - Long Village, where we count over 4 thousand trucks a day and at least so many passenger cars. No one has said in concrete terms today why this law is tragic for asbestos patients. Unfortunately, the contents of the debate went in a completely different direction, in my opinion in the wrong direction, in the direction of incorruptible content and also in the direction which gave birth to literaryly rich flossules. The new law lays down precisely the rights that injured workers may exercise, which is not applicable to the old law, and the rights have been paid on the basis of additional arrangements and without published rules. These are facts, and most of us probably agree with that. Out of sympathy for the asbestos patients, I will re-vote the law because I understand that the law of justice is expanding and is comparable to European laws of this kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler. She's not in the hall. I call on Ambassador Milan M. Cwickl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u130	Of course, in view of the decision or proposal of the State Council to rule again on the law on the abolition of the consequences of working with asbestos, I will vote in the same way as I voted when we proposed amendments that, if adopted, would allow us not to have discussions in Slovenia over the past few weeks on whether or not the law will really address the consequences arising from the use of asbestos. I myself am joining the opinion of the Council of State that, with the veto voted, there is actually a need to reopen this debate in the National Assembly today. I regret that the ruling coalition, when voting in recent weeks, has failed to listen to all the arguments that we have cited, either by representatives of those interested in working bodies or by members of the opposition. Some Members of the post, as I hear, will also insist on their positions of principle. It is hard for me to think that in some ways we are discussing the law in a dry way, each of us with our own arguments, or just when we are talking about it, there are people who feel the consequences of working with asbestos in the immediate vicinity of the places where it was done and where the disease continues. Above all, I would like to respond to what some Members here have said is that this law is somehow a European law or that it is so regulated in other countries of the European Union. I would like to remind you that if you look at the explanation of the law, as prepared by the Government, that this problem depends on the way in which individual countries react in different countries, and that it is precisely because this law has major financial implications that they also create appropriate either insurance schemes or determine the extent of the rights arising from such laws. Here we have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling coalition, which, perhaps from naked, narrow public finances or other reasons, says: "No, we will not solve this problem of dealing with asbestos, the problems that have arisen in this regard in Slovenia." This is very bad, and I hope that, above all, when we vote today, we will be able to stop the adoption of a law that saves nothing. Members of some parties from the ruling coalition say you will re- table the law if today's veto of the state council is rejected. I have to say, I don't understand anything anymore. If you believe that it is necessary to change matter, then when the amendments are being considered, when we spoke about it, supported it or accepted it in February, we could put in place amendments to resolve the substantive matter. Today, we will see to what extent the ruling coalition wants to understand on one side the will of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and to what extent the ruling coalition after a month of reflection really wants to solve the problems created by working with asbestos. I will, of course, support the veto of the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Sam Bevek. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I'd like to explain something to my colleague Horvath. Dr. Klavora, the doctor, here with me, my colleague, has taught me that for a doctor, the most important patient is a history, because they will not define what is "simple after Prešern" and what is in mind. The verification of occupational and environmental disease due to asbestos exposure will be carried out by an interdisciplinary group, which will be composed of a specialist doctor, an internist, a pulmologist, a medical specialist, a specialist radiologist or a specialist doctor of other specialities, on a proposal from the Minister. And here there is no fear of flooding of these patients who would be entitled by law, even if they did not consider only occupational diseases. Mr Pojbič said that in the SDS they think with their own head. If you are really thinking, dear colleagues and colleagues, with your own head, then you do not have to follow the instructions of the top coalition, which recently met on Gregorčič's street, where the presidents of the parliamentary parties of the government coalition decided today that you would support Members and Members both asbestos and veteran law. Members of the coalition argued before today's debate, including in the media, for the first time, that they would monitor the implementation of the law, which will be confirmed today, that they would change it immediately, if necessary, that a new law should also be adopted, including the harmful effects of mercury and Idria, and the Mezije Valley and the Ripper Basin, that there would also be a local problem and that this should also be included. Yes, dear colleagues, where were you with these thoughts when we proposed amendments to the opposition in the second and third readings? But then it wasn't that good will that you say now and you want to apologize for your re-voting for this marriage? But I'd use that for something else if time lets me. On 9 March, we were able to read in Del the article "Asbestos Jerneji" by Dr. Zlata Remškar, a specialist internist pulmologist from Golnik Hospital, where the results of the reviews of 100 workers employed on Slovenian railways are now being studied. One of these workers gave documentation from 2005 as it went from office to office and tried to enforce this law, which has been in force so far. He writes: "A 46-year-old worker working at a central workshop in Maribor as a maintenance of rolling stock for 25 years has brought me a view of the photocopy of correspondence in 2005 with various institutions that allegedly regulated and cared for job security." When I examined them, I remembered Cankar's servant, Jerne, and his fight for justice. The RS Labour Inspectorate informed him that the control measurements in June 2005 at the central workshops in Maribor showed, quote, "that the values of asbestos fibres are no longer needed in all repair halls in borders where the use of personal security equipment is no longer necessary." And then the doctor comments that you might be able to assess for the professional ignorance of this service or for underestimating the worker of the maintenance of the rolling stock. He then quotes other institutions that have also responded to his letters. And so, in the end, he comes back to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Inspectorate and the Ministry of Health. The circle has been concluded and began to spin again from the beginning, and the 46-year-old still has no right under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvat applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I just want to thank my colleague Bevk, who praised the law in the part where the law defines the commission. Best of all, I didn't talk about the commission, but I was talking about the environment, about this environment, which is practical if we really go across the board, practically the whole of Slovenia. Here is the problem of the commission, or the problem arises, or the question of how many commissions. Yes, on your question, Mr Bevk: Where have you been? I very much respect your efforts, I know that in the past you have worked a lot in this area, in the field of asbestos, in the area of drafting and supplementing the law, I wonder why you have not expanded, as you now suggest, then the texts of the laws you have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you. Comrade Bevk, I will not allow replicas, but there will be time left and you will have the opportunity to discuss them on the basis of a Rule of Procedure. To the word of Ambassador Jožet Tank. He's not in the hall. I give my word to Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again. I'm going to support the asbestos bill because it's the only kind of law that regulates occupational disease. In no other field, no other profession is regulated, and in many other professions there are also occupational diseases, including death after cancer. This law provides social security for workers who have been exposed to asbestos and assistance to companies who, if possible, could fail if they were themselves fully responsible for the payment of compensation. For the first time in this law, it is arranged for those who have fallen sick to receive compensation. The rights of compensation are also granted to workers who worked in factories, companies that are no longer there. Where else is there that you can sue someone who doesn't exist, who isn't, that you can sue somewhere else? Rights also extend to all those workers, not only those who directly worked in the asbestos factory, but also to traders, warehouses, carriers, such as Slovenian Railways. That's not what the old law said either. That's at least a few reasons why I'm going to break this law again. We are aware that the law does not define those patients who have lived in the neighborhood or have met with asbestos in any way. We wondered ourselves in New Slovenia how far we can go, what is this radio or is it, in fact, all of Slovenia. This is practically the whole of Slovenia. We ourselves are aware of how many of these asbestos covers, water pipes or in the house of insulation, etc. How many people have died of cancer or disease like this have never even considered it. It is likely that this will have to be regulated in the future, and I am surprised that these impacts of the industry's environment have not been regulated in the past in legislation. What do you think of today, for example, the inhabitants of Krka, who live in the immediate vicinity of the nuclear power plant? There, too, has been said that there is an increase in the number of cancer patients or, say, in agriculture, where, say, Mr Komat stated that in one parish in Savina Valley, people die mainly because of cancer due to the consequences of pesticides. So this issue is extremely broad and it will require wider consideration and thorough research and then probably legal regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you. We have thus exhausted the list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. I also give the floor to a government representative. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to answer some of the questions or reject the arguments raised at the time of the debate. First of all, I must thank you for the debate that has certainly been useful. This clearly showed that we have properly formed legal matter. This is the area of labour law and things or problems, disability, compensation relating to the labour legal field. The claim that persons with disabilities should be represented in these disability commissions. No, this is not happening anywhere in the world in order for the disabled or the disabled themselves to participate in the commissions themselves, they would be members of the commission and would also sign the opinion. Those who have not been employed in companies also have the right to compensation which they recover under the general laws of liability. In doing so, I would like to refer to, or highlight, the debate by Mr Pavliha, where he claims that compensation must be recovered from the causers and that it does not make sense to limit it to fences within businesses. Yeah, well, that's what the law says after all. It does not prevent compensation actions against other workers who are outside the factory space but under general conditions of compensation. Of course, we speak to this law and give a special position to those who suffer from asbestos disease. Of course, we must immediately ask ourselves whether this is similar for other patients, for those in working conditions and for those who have become ill as nationals, as well as for citizens. Logically, logically, legally, it is fair to treat the same status equally. Those who are not employed have disabilities, injuries, diseases due to these activities to be treated equally. And this may be a reference to regulation, to a special law, but certainly not to these problems in labour. There was a dialogue with doctors, with professionals and union representatives. You can have correspondence, you can see what was going on at the Ministry of Labour and you will see that many times both union representatives and employers and others have been invited.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u139	Minister, if you'll just finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u140	The law is consistent, comprehensive [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u141	Minister, you've lost your time. Minister three, you've wasted your time, I'm obliged to interrupt. You were in the National Assembly yourself, you know what the rules are. I also invite a representative of the State Council to the floor. Mrs. Turk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly and Honourable Minister! I must say, I am extremely glad that I have had this opportunity to listen to this debate. This debate already proves to me that the veto of the State Council, which has been so unanimously adopted, has actually achieved its purpose. He has achieved his mission, the mission to alert the public to a problem that is not only the problem of asbestos patients, but as the Member has already said before me, the problem of all professional patients and occupational diseases that occur in us is not yet regulated as matter. I would say that the mission of the Council of State is in particular to draw attention to the lack of consistency between proposals, laws or individual articles of law and thus to safeguard the area of democracy, particularly in the interest of civil society and representatives of civil society, who are becoming increasingly weak and unarticulated in this partnership. And this is our main mission. Unfortunately, the Constitution allows us to veto the entire law, and many times it would be much more appropriate if we could veto those articles that need to be pointed out above all, but not the whole of matter, as in this case, when we have warned ourselves in our debate and other places, or say that the law improves the previous situation in many respects, in particular because it extends to those beneficiaries who have been workers who have been affected by asbestos. Once again, it may be useful to point out in particular what we are also pointing out, as you have also pointed out, that it is necessary to comprehensively address the problem of occupational diseases, to diagnose these diseases, to treat the need to solve the problems of detection of patients due to asbestos exposure in the event that training of people in the medical profession is also necessary to detect these diseases, because it is not only those who are directly employed, that there is a need to teach the population the harmful consequences of asbestos abuse also because we have asbestos to deal with in everyday life, and not only those who work directly, and that there is still a need to prevent production or processing or services where they still integrate or deal with asbestos, and that is mainly the employer of the country. The credibility of the arguments that many of you have listed, present and present at the time of the former LDS rule, when the amendment was adopted on the proposal of the original law, which also gives the rights to the surrounding population, and if they have been used or not, is now under examination, as the proposal was submitted by the municipality of the Mayor of the time, who was of the Slovenian People's Party and was enforced by the opposition MP of the then Democratic Party of Slovenia. Since I am not a member of any party, I think it is very important that we really think about this law primarily because of our humanity and our love for our neighbor and our actual responsibility to our environment. This is the first law by which we will show how responsible we are until tomorrow, what we will leave to our children. The life of the barber Dark of the Canal, whose last name would not be said in public, lives 2 kilometres from the factory, which he learned about his diagnosis of asbestososis at the beginning of this month, cannot depend on the voting discipline that I have heard much about today, but only on the conscience of all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you. We will apply the provision of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Given that we still have 50 minutes of available time, I ask which of the Members or Members wants to discuss it in the context of the time I have just said. Please, if you can hold hands a little longer to write down our names. Four Members and one Member of Parliament have applied: colleagues Kontič, Bevk, Kokalj, Žgajner and Zagorac, Anderlič. I also ask the representative of the Government and the representative of the Council of State whether they will take advantage? [[No, no, ……]] Good. Then we have seven Members, or six Members, and one Member. Each speaker has five minutes. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Kontić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with the statement made by the representative of the Council of State in this closing statement, which we could have heard a little earlier. The Council of State has taken advantage of the opportunity offered by legislation and is seriously limited to knowing only the whole law, the law as a whole, and not the individual articles, but it is an arrangement. I also agree with all the warnings given by the State Council on the basis of the veto. Even those two who speak of the right to early retirement, that this right must be attached primarily to disability, and that the right to compensation should also be granted to the heirs of the deceased, because they may die for this disease, as it has already been heard, very young people. And it's only right that the heirs can get the compensation. To talk about Members thinking with our heads to make decisions in our conscience, according to our own feelings, is, of course, often present here in the National Assembly, when we just read among ourselves what someone is doing. I am sure that we are all thinking with our heads, including those who are being disciplined by the ruling coalition to vote against or in individual cases for. If nothing else, they decide with their head whether or not to follow this instructions. Then there are other matters later that justify their vote. It is impossible to agree to a solution that the disease is mainly related to the workplace but is not linked to everything else. For this disease they have become sick and probably not all have been identified, namely, patients, including those who have never worked with asbestos. And how, then, to a patient in a hospital where there are two patients with the same disease in the same room, explain that one has the right to compensation and the other does not work with asbestos does not have that right. How are we going to or are we going to explain this to these patients in the hospital? It is also correct to conclude that we have a lack of legislation in the field of disability, labour disability. There's a lot more. A lot of people get sick in jobs, but they don't have a recognised disability because this disability isn't listed as part of those who say that this disability can also be caused by the job. A few warnings have been made in the past and there will be a need to take a step forward and complete this list. When someone gets sick of this terrible disease, it doesn't matter how sick he gets. I would like to stress that again. He got sick because the laws did not prohibit the material used for individual products. Therefore, we bear the responsibility or responsibility in this case of a country which has not intervened in this area and has banned the use of these products in a timely manner. So excuses that someone else is responsible, and in the end, we will even find that they are the responsible people who did this, and that they are the ones who are responsible. But this is not the right way. It is only right that we take advantage of this opportunity given to us by the State Council, which is given to us by the Constitution, which gives us the law, that we do not confirm this law today, and that we allow in practice better solutions that will be difficult to write into this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Sam Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I would like to answer two things to my colleague Horvat from New Slovenia. He said why we haven't dealt with this problem before. Now I will not praise any government, not the one I was alone in, because the characteristic of the asbestos law is that it was written and adopted by the signatures of Members and Members of the National Assembly, even later novels. And so in November 2003, it is said that in the mandate of the previous government, of which I was a member, the four members of the then coalition signed a amendment to this law, which was in force until recently or which would cease to apply with the possible application of this law. This was Ivan Bozič from the Slovenian People's Party, Vojko Celigoj from DeSUS, Jožef Školč from LDS and me. At the time, the government did not agree with this bill, but we tabled it to members of the coalition. He did not come to the National Assembly, but the Government appointed an interdisciplinary or interdisciplinary working group, composed of representatives of ministries of economy, justice, work and family, for health, finance and environment and space, to prepare a comprehensive review of the implementation of the law, including the proposal for amendments. And this was the commission that worked in the previous and current government, because on 23 December 2004, this new government commissioned the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare a new law on the basis of guidelines and baselines prepared by the former government Interdepartmental Working Group, which will fully address the asbestos problem in Slovenia. And these guidelines also included the so-called environmental aspect of asbestos diseases, not just the professional one that this law is now talking about, which I hope will not have enough support today and will not receive 46 votes. My colleague Horvath also said that I had praised the law that I would reject today. Indeed, I quoted Article 9 as referring to the interdisciplinary commission, but I also said that we have made an amendment to this article, which was not adopted, to provide for the verification of occupational diseases and also environmental diseases by this interdisciplinary group of experts: a specialist in medicine at work, a specialist at home, a pulmologist, a specialist doctor, a radiologist or a specialist at another specialty, in the light of the case at hand. After all, we wanted to improve this law; we did not reject it in the first round. We proposed amendments because we wanted to extend the content of the law to the population, as was the Interdepartmental Group that prepared the starting points for the law, both for the previous government and for this government, and then you didn't want to take it into account from the ordinary financial calculation, because you thought it would put too much pressure on the budget, but if doctors have told you a number of times and we in the National Assembly that only 5 mesotheliomas since 1964, which had the environmental cause of the establishment of mesothelioma, were in the Soca Valley. There were 364 employees in the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Anton Kokalja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u148	I have never dealt intensively with this issue myself, but thank God in the past at least in some way. It is said that this is an area of occupational disease that the state has been aware of and has tried to regulate and that the current government is also trying to regulate better than it has been so far. In view of the fact that today, from the debates of some Members, it is clear that those who open a government proposal or do not support a veto are not actually able to think with their heads, I would ask nicely that the culture of debate in this national assembly should at least raise a little. I mean, I come from the following facts. Given that this area has to some extent been regulated, given that many areas that are tanning for the substantial younger generations in Slovenia are not in any way regulated and should be regulated, and I think that it is necessary to give both time and energy to the government and parliament to start dealing with things that have longer-term consequences than those that are at least to some extent regulated, I object to actually some kind of abuse of this topic for political purposes. What is happening now is nothing more than measuring political power in the national assembly, then in the state world and again in the national assembly. It's all legitimate, but there's a limit somewhere. I'm just going to give you one example of what's going to happen in one year or two years from now when someone figures out that mobile phones are going to radiate depending on the criteria for unionized radiation too. I think we all know that mobile phones radiate above the critical limit. Why doesn't anyone propose a restraining order or immediate compensation, and I don't know what. Let's not fool around! If we want to solve the problem for the good of man, let us solve it in an integrated way, not exploiting one disease that needs to be solved, which has already been solved in some way, only for political purposes. It really bothers me, and I don't think that's right. Another case. Very many very young patients in Slovenia have become sick or ill for so-called celiac disease, the cause of which we do not know. Genetically altered foods can also cause one or another. Food for these people is extremely expensive. Parents have partial tax relief for children, and adults have no regulation on how to solve this problem, nor how to solve the health consequences, except through diet, and not how to solve the damage to daily feeding, which is not really a treatment, but is the feeding that a person needs for his daily life. I am talking about relativising the problem that I think is being inspired today for political reasons and for obtaining political points across all borders. I myself will support the law, as proposed, because I believe that it is necessary to deal with the matter in an integrated, just manner with all the inhabitants, if that is the case. If there is anything else, let us, of course, shorten this debate. I will also end and finish the vote and deal with those matters that are more problematic than those that are at least in some way already settled. Of course, I'm not against improvement, but we probably can't get an ideal marriage; there will always be someone who will have another comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u150	I'll say I don't know if some people know what they're talking about, they just don't hear, or they're so ruthless and inhuman. Today we have heard or heard reports of opposition Members who will oppose the adoption of such a law. Emotional perceptions. Now tell me, please, whether it's emotional, human, emotional response to questions or subjects when we're talking about human health, about life. Not least about the death of people. And let me actually explain, coalition MPs, when she was actually saying, I don't know, looking for practices, diseases, things like that. To actually explain to her, unfortunately she's not with us right now that it's the only occupational disease that's 100% dying of. Asbestos, then. This is what we are talking about today, and we are talking about the rights that must belong to these people. They must belong. I am convinced that so much moral obligation must be borne by all of us, not only the Members of this national assembly, but also the Government which is preparing such laws. I mentioned my emotions. You know, I'm human, and I'm proud to be human, with all my emotions or emotions. That's what makes me different from a robot or if you want to, when someone is suffocating me, how I have to vote, regardless of my own head or conscience. It is difficult, very difficult, or impossible to overlook and deny people’s distress. But we have heard today, and if you listen to or listen to the stories of the people we are actually talking about today and making decisions, then you know whether or not you will see how small and powerless a man is when he is in distress. It is the weakness of individuals to be protected. And it's not the last time we get to the kids. Today, we have heard of the fence, the barbarous border, or wire mentioned by this law, which divides those who are entitled and those who are not. Who is responsible for the children’s being on the other side of the wire? But obviously no one cares. Minister Petty Officer, I'm asking you right now, or maybe I'm just giving you some thought to how much human life is worth in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Bostian Zagorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! One of the speakers said that this law was about measuring political power. You know, then I'm very concerned that the government has very weak political power in this country, given that tonight, when you vote for this law, you will draw to this House as sick as the permissives, only that the law will go through. And if I go back to why I can't support this marriage or why I'm going to support the veto that the State Council has given. The first issue is certainly an environmental aspect that is not in this law. So you divide people into two groups, into a group of those who worked with asbestos, and into a group of those who didn't cover them, lived near the factory, or sent their children without their guilt to kindergartens that were covered with an asbestos roof. Last but not least, the law is not in line with the asbestos-patient union. And how can you say that the law is in harmony? Last but not least, there are two ways to identify asbestos in this country. The first is those in whom they find out, but forgive the expression that they are at the end, that they must be retired and given a pension. Another way is by finding a disease that is not yet so severe that they can retire; they must be provided with a similar job where they will not be in contact with asbestos. However, we do know that the factories do not have these jobs. Just let them go, send them to the stock market, where they wait for their end, without everything, so they're busy on the stock exchange. There were also many words spoken about how one should think with one’s head. It is very interesting to see Members in this House speaking with their heads, but they are reading a dictatorship written by a professional colleague or someone from the head, convincing all of us, I believe 89, that I will not offend anyone, except myself, which I consider to be the 90th Member, to speak out of my head. More than once in this House, this law has also mentioned who is ringing the bell. To the lords who sit on the rostrum - if you turn to all those who support the law - life rings. And the "spar program" is ringing to you. It's supposed to be shredded! You're the one who puts life and money on the scale. I will, of course, vote against this law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Anton Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u154	One wonders what the point is in discussing the situation when coalition Members and Members are discussing how it can only be proved that the law cannot be adopted or reconfirmed. And one argument alone, one reason doesn't convince them to say, for fuck's sake, let's see if we're doing any useful work or not. When I hear here from the mouth of the coalition Members and Members of Parliament that the diseases of those who have suffered from asbestososis are being inflatable. Dear colleagues, the disease cannot be inflatable, nor is it a failure, but you have, is or is not. And we face these questions. This country of Slovenia is fortunate at the stage of development when it can already determine in individual segments which things are harmful, which are problematic and which products and production in the country of Slovenia are no longer expected to be in the future. For asbestos, this was established decades ago and the state reacted immediately, banned production, prohibited traffic and finally resolved or resolved those production facilities that dealt with it and remedied the consequences of people who had been in contact with asbestos. Clearly, the knowledge of that time was consistent, as far as the profession could then say about what a serious illness, what a serious problem it was. Time has brought about changes and development has shown that thinking is also needed and that the disease also occurs in those who are close or who have not been in direct contact with asbestos in the factory. Today we are talking about not correcting what has been done wrong before, but upgrading what has not been done in a way that is feasible. I'm talking about that part of the law that, according to you, has been cited here in the adoption of the law by the affected, that they have not been heard, that their situation has not been settled, but that is exactly what we want to do with these proposals that we are defending. And you're looking for reasons why we wouldn't do that. This cannot be understood by one who thinks in a way that is called: “Help if you can. ” But if you can't, then at least it doesn't hurt from the position of its power. I am extremely sad that someone who has enjoyed 10 years of pension benefits provided by the State is voting for such a law in the case of a law that saves the lives of people who have also been in dangerous production. That's not human. This is about humanity. This is about whether we see our fellow citizens, who ultimately contributed to the social gross product from which we eventually developed this country. That's what this is about. And like those who have been receiving benefits for years and years, they are now entitled by the state to those who have come because they have become sick. And tomorrow we're gonna have to save another group of people. I know that as a result of excessive use of pesticides, water poisoning and various other things, it will probably be necessary to take measures and address these consequences. I would be happy to see these consequences in various areas as little as possible, but life is like this, and ultimately we are living in a period when science is advancing, when the profession is advancing, which warns us and gives us better solutions for our lives, and those who are bad must be eliminated, forgotten, given to history and to our Members and Members of Parliament that we understand it or not. And I will by no means agree to any flat-rate explanation that political points are being raised if we are to stand for some things to be resolved, because we have been called upon to do so, and that is why I will vote again in the same way as I did in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you, Comrade Anderlich. And I invite Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We're talking about marriage, eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos, in a law that has a purpose, its concept, its goal, starting with the title. And again, regardless of all the debates, today I claim that this is a good law, that a welcome law with its concept, with its purpose, in particular because it is evident that, on issues related to occupational diseases in the Republic of Slovenia, the scene is still completely open, inconsistent and therefore this law is welcome. And in the concept of this law, regardless of all the pathetic debates today, it was not possible to incorporate the desired amendments into its consideration, nor was it possible to veto the national assembly. Then it's not this law anymore, then we have to decide everything with the title of the second law. And this law is not possible after this adoption if it is adopted, which is to be amended, as it was to be felt by the DeSUS Group of Members. It's not possible. Not this marriage. The law has to be made new, because then the law is no longer there. They don't even serve the address anymore. And so I will say, it was very correct for my colleague Bevk to note that amendments to the basic law were proposed by the Members, and the Members also proposed an amendment that the law included environmental impacts. And this law was strongly opposed by the then government under the tactics of Minister Petrinova. And it bothers me a little bit if I have this look of my own, and I'm just about to think that tomorrow there might be a proposal for a law to remedy the environmental impact of asbestos. And let everything be absorbed into this law, which the state can offer. Then the context must be so set, not as it is today. And it bothers me that today somehow, I am not burdened, you know, by not being able to vote on my own judgment, but I do not accept that these Levites today share with me those who, in the last two years of my previous term, have been constantly condemning me to sit in two chairs. Because I still had so much pride in myself that when I know that the country is good, no one can overwhelm me when I know it's really good. And that's why it bothers me that today, Dr. Pavlich, who became the minister when we were able to leave them the falanga at the time, because we had our pride, the obvious political rape, these shelves over me. Not above me. This concept is so built and I still say it's good. And what's more, far from what the state council says is that the law between articles is not harmonised. It's not true. It's an extremely harmonised law. Take a look at the legislative and legal opinion, both in the consideration of the law itself, the proposal as well as in the opinion requested by the State Council. And I'm just saying, I can't help but support the law again, and let no one tell me that I'm running some inhumanity over people who are affected by a health defect caused by asbestos. A different law should appear tomorrow to resolve this issue, and let us be honest with one another because we have not been since yesterday. This policy of the Republic of Slovenia has not been created by the current mandate, nor has it ended with the previous mandate, nor will it end with the expiry of this mandate, but as people, we can be so right among ourselves that, due to such arguments, we do not "improve" with some humiliation, because it seems incorrect to me. I'll support the marriage because it's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you. So, we're done here. For the participation and introductory and final explanations, I thank the representative of the State Council. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will vote today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda or no later than 21 hours and 45 minutes. That's what I'm breaking up with. And we're moving on to 24. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE WAR VETERINARY LAW. In doing so, I would like to inform you that it is envisaged for a total discussion period of 4 hours and 8 minutes. The Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia decided at its 12th meeting, 9.3., that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on amendments and additions to the law on war veterans. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the request of the Council of State. Please. With us is Mr. Rada Patch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament and Members and representatives of the Government. For several reasons, the Council of State decided to veto the Act on the Supplementation of the War Veterans Act and voted on it at its 12th extraordinary session on 9 March. Procedure for the adoption, excessive and unjustified extension of the circle of beneficiaries and the inconsistencies and inconsistencies of the provisions of the law and the termination of the law on the financing of the association of national liberation fighters. All these comments were also made by the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities at its 40th meeting, when it did not support the law. The National Assembly did not take these warnings into account when adopting the draft law. The amendment of the law is of such importance that it should be submitted and adopted on a regular basis with the possibility of a wider public debate. In the opinion of the Council of State, the law is too loose and indeterminate to extend the range of beneficiaries, reducing the importance and role of a war veteran and neglecting and valuing the values that would lead to the granting of the status of actual beneficiaries. There are now 39,961 war veterans in Slovenia for Slovenia. Councillors pointed out that, by unduly extending the rights by obtaining the status of the applicant, it would not only apply 4,400 persons at the discretion of the proposer, but significantly more. It is known, however, what rights go to all of them and what resources will be needed to do so. Too poorly defined in the law is the issuing of certificates for the participation of records to demonstrate the credibility of cooperation and the identification of what someone had to do to gain status. Councillors were of the opinion that the rights were being extended to employees and workers too loosely, for example, all directors were then responsible for defence preparations and the Council of State proposes that the list of beneficiaries be re-examined. With the implementation of this law, the law on the financing of associations for national liberation fighters ceases to apply. This is unacceptable to the State Council for several reasons. It should be noted that the fighters of the national liberation war of Slovenia have a special position and special protection provided by the constitutional law for the implementation of the fundamental constitutional charter of the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 18 states that the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the protection of the rights of fighters to the extent and under the conditions laid down by the provisions of the SFRJ pending the implementation of this Act. Therefore, there is neither a legal basis nor a substantive argument to intervene in these rights. The criteria and criteria for financing the activities of war veterans should, according to the State Council, be defined in the law itself. The adoption of the law will allow the competent minister to abolish the financing of certain activities of the National Liberation War Associations, as the determination of the criteria will be a free judgement. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out that it would raise the issue of the specific situation and protection of fighters, since it is established by constitutional law, to examine and clarify in particular. We are very keen to compare ourselves with Europe, and all Europe recognises the fighters against Nazism and the Fascism as a special status. The NOB fighters are also recognized as part of the victorious coalition of World War II because they fought for the liberation of the country in the fight against Nazism and Fascism. In Slovenia alone, the current government is inclined to recognise these special rights to those who have cooperated with the fascists and Nazis, while taking them to those to whom they are going. Therefore, the adoption of such legislation is just another attempt to evaluate the importance and role of national liberation fighters and their national liberation struggle. With all due respect to all war veterans, it is not possible to compare all veteran societies and all veterans. The difference is whether you're at war for 23 days or 4 years or you're fully equipped or naked and bare. For the sake of all this, the Council of State proposes to delete Article 9 of this Law. So many introductorys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Kraut. In the context of the extended legislative procedure, the request was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice to meet you all again. The subject matter of this requirement of the Council of State was also addressed by the parent working body at its 6th emergency meeting, on 21.3. The Committee was informed of the request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government's opinion on this request and, of course, the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. A representative of the Council of State Mr Rado Krpač, representative of the Government of Slovenia with Minister Janez Drobnič at the head and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mr Božo Strle, took part in the meeting. Similarly, as we have just heard before, Mr Rado Krpač, a representative of the Council of State, has also further justified the request of the Council of State to members and members of the Committee, and we have also been informed of the Government's arguments, including in the oral sense why the demands are opposed. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, however, pointed out that, in accordance with Rule 147 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service had examined that request of the State Council for re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans. He pointed out that under the provisions of Articles 1 and 8 of the Law, the Minister responsible for war veterans was authorised to lay down more precise criteria for financing the activities of the company or association of war veterans. However, the basic criteria or criteria for their funding from the State budget shall be laid down in Article 1, paragraph 4, of the War Veterans Act. The Minister responsible for veteran wars will therefore be able to specify the criteria for financing only on the basis and in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 1, paragraph 4, of the Act. Contracts for the financing of a particular company or association of war veterans will be concluded by the Minister on the basis of legal criteria under the law. In accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in the fourth paragraph of Article 1, the word “may” has also been deleted when the law was adopted or the law could be examined to enable the Minister to conclude contracts in a free manner. With regard to the special situation or protection of national liberation fighters of Slovenia provided by the Constitutional Law, it is a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, cited by the request of the State Council, and the legislative and legal service, in its opinion on the proposal of the Law on War Veterans, warned that it would indicate that the issue should be examined and clarified in particular. In the debate, some members of the Committee highlighted the fact that the law had been dealt with following a reduced procedure, although they felt it would require regular treatment. They also agreed with the opinion of the Council of State on social activities, which drew attention to the unjustified expansion of the beneficiary circle. In the course of the discussion, special attention was also paid to the envisaged termination of the financing law of the NOV Slovenije Association of Fighters. They pointed out that the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia recognised the special position of the Union of Fighters and therefore it was unacceptable to establish the criteria for the financing of the NOV Association of Fighters as a matter of free judgement by the Minister. They also drew attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which states that the issue of the special situation of the Union of Fighters would be addressed in particular and clarified. After the discussion, the members and members of the Committee also decided to refer to the draft decision to the National Assembly, by which we called on the National Assembly to re-confirm the law. The proposal for a decision submitted did not receive an absolute majority of the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I give the text to the representative of the proposer of the law for explanation or for the opinion of the government. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u162	Once again a lovely greeting, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The preparation of the proposal, which you will vote on today, started on the basis of the initiative of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia in May 2004. The Union also proposed the inclusion of the so-called civil part of the defence of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who actively participated in the preparation and implementation of defence tasks during the aggression against Slovenia, based on the work obligations and decisions of the competent republic, provincial or municipal authorities and commanders. Individual associations of war veterans have also proposed to adjust the single financing of veteran organisations from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a supplement to the law on the basis of initiatives and experience in the implementation of the law. This proposal removes the criminal provisions of the current law, which excluded certain categories of persons who indisputably carried out defence tasks from the possibility of obtaining military veteran status. The law establishes uniform criteria and criteria for the allocation of budgetary resources to veteran societies or their associations acting as public-interest societies. There is no legal and non-personal reason for treating veteran organisations differently, so that veterans would be in a worse position for Slovenia than veterans, NOB fighters. By repealing the law on the financing of the NOB Association of Fighters, the current means of providing funds for its operation will not change. That law is no longer in line with the legal order in force, since it was adopted at a time when the union of fighters was one of the three social political organisations with special constitutional powers. In accordance with the new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the association of NOB fighters was transformed into a social organization in 1991 after the then applicable law on societies. In 1996, it was granted the status of a society acting in the public interest, in particular in the field of socio-health care for membership, preservation of historical tradition and the like. In view of the above, it is appropriate that the association of associations of fighters be subject to the same criteria for financing its activities as other companies and associations of war veterans granted the status of a company operating in the public interest. Even more budgetary resources are provided in 2006 for the financing of NOB societies or associations than for veteran wars for Slovenia, although there are several veterans of the war for Slovenia. Also, the association of associations of fighters has real estate that other veteran organizations do not have. The claims that this law violates Article 18 of the Constitutional Act for the implementation of a basic constitutional instrument which guarantees NOB fighters the same rights as those laid down by the SFRY rules are unfounded and do not hold back legal judgment. It is clear that this provision applies exclusively to the protection of individual rights of fighters, but not to the status of jurisdiction and the way in which organisations of fighters have no connection with the aforementioned provision. Individual rights of fighters shall be established by other regulations which are not affected by this proposal. The constitutional law also applies exclusively to rights guaranteed under the rules of the former SFRJ and the law on the financing of associations of fighters is a 1990 copy of the Republic of Slovenia. The rights of fighters do not change with this law, so they remain the same. The proposed law therefore corrects the wrongs for obtaining the status of a war veteran and provides a uniform basis for equal status for all veteran organisations, so the government proposes that this law be supported by Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be given by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we have opposed the bill and we oppose it today. Of course, like some, we did not change our mind. The War Veterans Act is intended to regulate the status of a war veteran or to ensure the status of a war veteran to persons who, in military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, have performed their duties in its defence as members of the bearers' defence forces. It's a very nice diction, which we also find in the explanation of the law. The objectives and principles of the law are to rediscover whether this status is actually possible for all who deserve it. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia are expected to identify, at the initiative of the Federation of War veterans, who deserves everything in the independent war. The new beneficiaries introduced by the law are the employees of municipal and republican administrative units, negotiators with representatives of the then authority, visual observers - I will not list them, because I believe that you have read all the explanations - I will mention only the last line which says - the leading officials of the customs administration. In the Slovenian National Party, we miss those who actually worked on the ground. We all know that when it came to the independence of Slovenia, the first task of the then Yugoslav army was to occupy border crossings. I doubt, I really doubt that any of the customs administration's managers at the time were literally carrying out the task of customs at the border crossing. The people who have stood at the border crossings and protected our national border are missing this law, which we find totally unacceptable in the Slovenian National Party. Another issue that we will be opposed to the adoption of this law is certainly a ban - at least that is how we explain ourselves in terms of power and in terms of the ministerial structure in this government - the ban on the financing of the union of united fighters. Excuse me, united. Thanks for fixing it. Welcome aboard, from Vienna! It's probably the result of the previous marriage when I said you'd bring in all the sick and those on leave to come vote. Certainly, the union of united fighters is the one that deserves funding. And the existing government is probably not the one who will give them the money. Finally, it is also necessary to mention the problem of societies operating within the framework of the Union of United Fighters and not covered by this Act. If we pour ourselves pure wine, you too, respected colleagues and colleagues who sit here in front of me and belong to the government coalition, realize that you and not the independent Slovenia without the NOB fighters today would not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group, which will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] I would like to ask you to give early warning next time about the change of position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! The DeSUS Group has difficulties in confirming this law in the sense that there are arguments for and arguments against. It certainly speaks for the sake of the law that the status of a war veteran will be able to realize, for example, those in prison who had to guard and protect the prisoners of the Yugoslav People's Army with weapons, not only in prisons but also in the immediate vicinity. These are essentially the only armed persons who passed the territorial defence and the police as armed forces operating in the June 1991 war. But here, strictly speaking, with regard to the concept of a war veteran, things really stop. More difficult is the fact that, from the beginning, the change in this law entails an original error in thinking that both genders and even children under the age of 15 should be veterans of war. Once the status of civilians, with the same rights as the armed forces, has been established, the path of expansion has been open and only a short time will show where the matter will stop. The war for Slovenia in 1991 was certainly a big deal, and it succeeded because it participated in this in a variety of ways most citizens. The rational question is whether the majority of citizens are now entitled to enjoy the same status rights after 50 years, in the case of men, if the growth of the average age is stopped, on average 22 years and for women 25 years. It was therefore an easy act in the sense that the circle of beneficiaries could now expand indefinitely with financial consequences that could exceed those of II. World War II. The border between those who actually risked everything and those who risked less, went down to the point where after this change, the status of war veterans could be promoted by cooks who cooked for the police, not by those who cooked for the territorial defence. Veterans will be the ones who drove the obstacles, not the ones that made them. The status will be enforced by electricians who cut off the flow to the surrounding barracks, but not by employees in the plumbing, who shut down their water, which was an even worse pressure for surrender. By means of this law, we place new injustices on those who are not included, perhaps more deserving of the final outcome, which will undoubtedly force new enlargements to all those who will not be able to be proved at least in their minds by non-participation. From this point of view, the law is bad, since despite serious warnings, the applicant has not tried to set at least a pale definitive limit to which the same rights are due, but not to extend the circle in the future to the majority without doubt more or less deserving citizens. Also, our proposal to consider a lower level of rights for at least some categories in enlargement did not come across fertile soil, which will not be blamed or due to our descendants. The Group of Members is aware that the law will be supported by the majority, although it is not well thought out, especially in the fear of voters and the fight for their votes, which will freeze many people's common sense, and cost them what they want. That's why the price is going to be high. The financing of veteran organisations alone is poorly regulated in the proposed solution and leaves too much freedom for the minister, who is guided by political conviction in the decisions, as he has already demonstrated in the redrafting of the budget proposal, and this is certainly not European, but even less good. Such practices are understood as unnecessary pouring of oil into the fires of old grudges from the past, which burden the present and the near future in an insurmountable way. The number of statuses following this amendment is severely undervalued, and thus the projected financial consequences are incorrect and misleading. The DeSUS Group has been instructed to receive the funds foreseen in the budget by the NOV Association of Fighters organisations, but also to demand that the issue of veterans with the government law be transferred from the social sector to the defence sector, as it is in most other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u168	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Minister and his colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the amendment to the war veterans law that we are considering today is, above all, to try to best eliminate the injustices against individuals that have been systematically introduced by the current law. In the SDS, we believe that the optimal solution would be such as to distinguish between the contribution of individuals to the self-sustaining war and individual groups to different statuses. Unfortunately, however, such a solution cannot now be summarised, since the status rights already acquired by individual groups of beneficiaries under the previous law cannot be reversed. The proposal for this law, which is now being re-examined, is expanding the range of beneficiaries for the status of war veteran. However, this is largely because the original law has brought a great deal of injustice. Before the government that drafted this law, it was a very difficult decision, namely, how to spread it widely now, so as not to cause new injustices again or to further devalue those who deserve such status most. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this law has been prepared through the amendments and has also been adopted correctly or brings the right solutions, so we have supported it in its original form and consideration, and we will support it now again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Member Aleš Gulič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u170	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished presidents! Very briefly, I'm not going to touch everything the predecessors have already said, but I still need to know. Slovenia's self-sustaining war was practically general human resistance and therefore any re-establishment of borders, criteria, filters, fragmentation of people, evaluation of their role through professions, sex, age is, of course, meaningless and does not bring anything new, except new injustices. And because of this, this marriage is no better than the one that is manifest to him that he was weak, and he was former. Of course, he's worse at something else. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Veterans Act repeals the Law on the Financing of the Union of National Liberation Warriors Associations, and this act, in our opinion, is unfounded, unreasonable, unfair, tasteless and in some ways unworthy of what we call a democratic Slovenia. We Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia have already pointed out this at the meetings of the mother labour body in previous cases of this law. However, the proposer refused to take this into account. But it's seven times in the mill, and that's why I repeat. The independent country became the Republic of Slovenia at the end of a long road, which did not start in 1990 or 1987, nor in 1945 or in 1915 in the previous century, but there was somewhere in the middle of the previous and the first steps were taken just at the time of the rebirth. They were followed by General Maister and his. Most of the way was done during the period of antifascism, when people today organised in relation to associations of fighters, in impossible conditions, risking their lives and risking them repeatedly over four years, managed to preserve the identity of the Slovenian nation and the Slovenian consciousness. We arrived together at the goal, with them. And the decision to abolish the law on financing a union of fighters can have a lot of bad consequences. At the same time, I should also recall the warnings of the legislature that the proposed termination of this law is not in line with the application and application of the financing of associations or associations of war veterans on the basis of the amendment of the law. The content of the Law on the Financing of the Association of Fighters and the provisions of Article 1 of the novel do not match because the novelty makes it impossible or makes it possible to narrow down the financed activities and prevents a number of activities from which the legislator in 1990 provided that they are of such social importance that the State must provide funds for their implementation. This amendment of the law will therefore enable the Minister himself and only him, this is important, indirectly, to abolish the financing of certain activities carried out by the Union. The current government has already shown a machete's attitude towards this, with the 2005 rebalancing and the 2000 and 2007 budgets, so "pishmeuhov" has reduced funds for associations of fighters. Of course, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs did not index this. The concern of the Association of Fighters, the State Council, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is therefore justified. It's no longer true here that he says he's afraid of the twisted ropes of the snake's prick. The curved cord of this law is a pure snake poisoner. The special protection of national liberation fighters has been ensured by constitutional law with the implementation of the fundamental Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, but this time a constitutional candidate would have bypassed it, because he thinks he has gained this world in permanent and everlasting possession and that he can now have it as he wants. Well, because of all that I have said, and in particular due to respect for all those who stood on the brink of fascism and Nazism during the two world wars, and all those who resisted the invaders between the years 41 and 45, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the veto and oppose the criminal trinkets of Drobnik, which are mercifully promised by the Veterans Act. So we do not support the law and we will vote against it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you. We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Ambassador Miran Potræ to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For the first time, I recall that the same meeting of the National Assembly dealt twice with the veto table tabled by the Council of State on the draft law proposed by the same Minister. No minister had two vetoes at the same meeting, on questions that once concern understanding health and relation to health, and secondly, understanding history and relation to history. I think that's a good point to draw attention to. I think it is right for the Minister to be aware of this fact, that the Prime Minister would also be aware of this fact. In both cases, the veto was urgently needed in terms of substantive definitions. However, it would be totally unnecessary for the government and the competent minister to show more understanding of objective facts, to respect health and respect for history, because in this case no veto would be necessary and no negative consequences would be, on the contrary, for this or for the government. The law we are talking about and on which the Council of State has given a legitimate veto - in the Group of Members of the Social Democrats we will support this veto and therefore we will not vote again in favour of the law - has two contents. The first is to clarify or extend the range of beneficiaries from the round of veterans of the war on Slovenia, and in this respect not all of our proposals, which we have made on the basis of warnings from veteran organisations, have not been adopted, but in any case, the circle of those proposed to adopt the law is justified, better than the previous one, and in this part I would also be supported by the law. Since we will not, we want to make it clear that it is not understood as opposition to these proposals, but rather as a full readiness to make sure that in the shortest possible time, if the law is not confirmed, what we hope, we are developing the same or even better solutions to determine who could all have the status of a veteran war for Slovenia. The second purpose of the law is to indisputably limit the financing of a union of national liberation fighters. There is absolutely no doubt about this, so the arguments drawn up by the government in terms of formal apology are completely empty because they know what and how it has done in recent years. And from 2004 to 2005, it has reduced funding to finance the union of NRA fighters by just over a third, or 66 million, 577 thousand dollars and equal funds so far, also in this year and in the draft budget for the following year. In the same period, just for comparison, without assessing whether this is right or wrong, the funds of the Union of War Disability Associations were reduced by almost 50 or almost a third the same and the Union of War Disability People's Liberation Fight in Trieste by just less than one third, a quarter. On the contrary, it received new funding from the New Slovenian Alliance, the North Association received around 100% more funding, in 2005 10 million, 2006 20 million, and the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia received 62 million more in 2004, in 2005 and forecasts for 130 million more. I say again, I do not argue that each of these items can be argued for or against, but it is clear where the funding is going by the current government. What the government has done to make the situation easier and easier in its direction. First time. It deleted a special law on the financing of the Union of National Liberation War fighters for Slovenia in 1990. I will not argue that the Union of Fighters has been financed under this law today, because we also have a law on war veterans, and it provides for a possible status of society with special purpose and such funding. However, the repeal of this law, if indeed, as the government claims, has been obsolete, unnecessary, means symbolic action, is offensive to the organization of a union of national liberation fighters and is shameful for this government. Why show a symbolic attitude toward an organization when, as the government itself claims, it has no real effect. Second. The Government has complemented the criteria for financing by adding a new paragraph to the current Article 1 paragraph of the law defining the criteria. She knew that she could not delete the second paragraph so far and should not, because it would be too obvious. However, it complemented it by providing the general criteria set out in the second paragraph in force, where it is clearly stated that funding is intended to take account of the programme for a period of 5 years, in particular in the field of socio-health care of members, preservation of historical traditions, care for the maintenance of the military graves of international activities and so on. In short, the fundamental purposes of this society are written in the second paragraph of the War Veterans Act. In addition, the Government added completely general criteria, which are contrary to the criteria set out in the second paragraph, and made the law of the internal non-consistence itself, since it said that it was financed from the State budget, taking into account in particular the social programme, on the basis of the criterion of the number of members of the war veterans, it explicitly pointed out the number of members of the war veterans, which meant approximately the union of national liberation fighters. half of us, because I am among them, I am proud to say, many of us who were not fighters, but we are part of this society not to have any benefit, but because we believe that cultivating the anti-fascism tradition of national liberation struggle is an activity that is beneficial to Slovenia in its entirety. As the next criterion is the property he owns and then the social program. So the government wanted to make the criteria so that every next year, which probably doesn't have to be too smart if we say that the age of veterans of World War II is so great that we can't count on them for many years of their lives, and if nature does do its thing, it will probably not stop it, the government will have a formal reason to constantly reduce funds. But not a means for the activities of the fighters or for the rights of the fighters, these are arranged separately, and here the government representative is right, but will reduce the means for the purpose of this association, that is to nurture the tradition of national liberation and antifascism. And I would also like to say that, at a time that has not yet been adopted, the government has foreseen the possibility of special rights and arrangements through changes and the addition of the company law, in which it has again set out fully general criteria by ensuring and protecting itself in more, totally unacceptable ways. I hope that we will see together that such an approach is unacceptable, that it cannot be justified by any formal criteria, which the government is trying to ensure, because the purpose of these societies is also different, and that it would be right to find together the unacceptableness of the proposal of this law and not support it. Especially because there is a great deal of cooperation on the part of the fighting organisation to resolve many of the current issues, including past and past history, because there is a great willingness to cooperate with the government and the union of fighters has also agreed to reduce almost a third of the funds and have done a lot of work to adapt its activity to this reduction, but we all know what and why this money is meant to do so. It is not intended for fighters, but for the preservation of tradition, the restoration and preservation of monuments, the organization of celebrations, the issuance of historical literature and the like, which at 4 years of war probably requires its own resources. I will not beg, nor ask my fellow Members and colleagues in the coalition to vote because I believe that they will decide for themselves. Indeed, a week ago, I suggested to the Prime Minister that he change the order to vote and recommend to the coalition Members that they do not support the law. That seemed very unkind to you. I only did so on the basis of your messages, which all representatives of the joint meeting have communicated to the Slovenian public. That you were talking about having lists, that in different colors it was shown who was right, who was wrong to vote and that you had in some way an agreement that where mistakes were made, this should be corrected. Read all the notifications that were made by representatives of your parliamentary groups at the time. That's exactly how I understood them. That is why I have also proposed that the Prime Minister simply say that it is not necessary to sharpen this point, unfortunately he has not done so. You may do so to Members and Members of Parliament. Otherwise, we will regard this as an extremely unfriendly gesture to all those who respect the national liberation fight and nurture the anti-fascism tradition and try to find ways to correct the error that might have been made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! At the beginning of this month, the Council of State decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should decide again on the amendment of the War Veterans Act. This decision was decided on the basis of the following three reasons. The law should be introduced on a regular basis, as this is a very important content that should be brought to the attention of the general public. The second reason was that the number of beneficiaries is unwarrantedly expanding, reducing the importance and role of a war veteran and neglecting the values that would lead to the granting of this status to actual beneficiaries. And the last reason that is most important, according to the Council of State, is the termination of the law on the financing of the Association of Fighters of NOB Slovenia, since they will no longer have the resources provided for their operations. The proposed amendment to the war veterans law, which we are re-declaring today, is a relatively short law. On the surface, it's divided into three sets. The first is about financing societies or organisations of war veterans. The second set extends a series of persons who have the right to gain the status of a war veteran. The third set solves the problem of pension distribution to well-known war veterans and newly recognised beneficiaries. All of this will be recognised as a special period, which will be counted during their working hours. In Novi Slovenija we could even agree with the opinion of the State Council when they believe that after the amendment of this law there is too much justification for obtaining the status of war veteran for Slovenia in 1991. According to some estimates, there are around 5,000 beneficiaries, and it is mainly feared that the enlargement of beneficiaries under this law would devalue the importance of the veteran war on Slovenia. On the other hand, the circle of beneficiaries after this amendment of the law extends to those who have been released for any reason from the previous amendment of the law in 1999 and should have obtained this status according to the criteria set out in the current law. The law currently in force does not address quite a few categories of beneficiaries who, during the aggression against Slovenia, have been actively involved in the defence of the country with weapons in hand. To me, the most typical representatives of this forgetfulness are mainly prison guards and customs officers, who for unknown reasons have fallen out of the previous amendment of the law. The main committee reopened its debate under Article 9 of the Act, in so far as article 18 of the Constitutional Law has been violated by the implementation of the basic constitutional charter, which gives the fighter a special position or special protection. On this point, I must make it clear that the Government's legislative service has made a request for the termination of the law on the financing of associations of fighters. In Novi Slovenija we agree with the Government's position that the 18th Article of the Charter provides for the protection of the rights of NOB fighters at least to the extent guaranteed by the then regulations of the SFRJ. This right is also guaranteed by this law on war veterans, which does not change in these provisions. At this point, I must also clearly reject the position of the representative of the Council of State, who, on the Committee, expressed the view that all the time these governments have been faced with an unfriendly restrictive attitude towards the union of fighters and the complications with the financing of their organisation, but in particular they are disturbed by the very well-known and negative views of the competent minister and the political party from which the Minister comes. For these reasons, they are convinced in the Council of State that it would be inappropriate to set the criteria for financing a union of fighters, which would be a matter of the Minister's discretion. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that individuals who are veterans of the union of fighters will continue to have all the rights that have been recognised to them already. We are also convinced that all veterans of the union of fighters during the Ministry of Magi. The petty man was paid, or they took advantage of all the benefits they enjoyed under the law. However, the rights and duties of society or organisations will or should be equal to the rights of other societies to which the status of society or organisation is recognised in the public interest and this seems to us to be the right thing to do. Nor can the State Council's claim, which was also the main reason for the veto voted, that by the end of the law on the financing of the association of NOB Slovenije fighters, only these would no longer have the resources provided for their operation. They will receive funds under the same criteria as any other comparable society. The criteria for the allocation of funds are very clear and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly was very clear on this point. In order for the Minister to be able to specify the criteria only on the basis and in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 1 of the Act. Personally and also my colleagues in Novi Slovenija do not see any need for the organization of NOB fighters to have a different and more privileged status against other companies with recognised status of society in the public interest. We agree and support the solution in Article 1 of this Law to take into account, in particular, the programme of the society or association of war veterans, which ensures public interest. The second criterion is the number of members of war veterans and property owned by the company or association of war veterans. In New Slovenia, we will once again support the amendment of the war veterans law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The status of a war veteran is not only a moral satisfaction to the beneficiary of this status but also gives a certain range of rights and ratings. It is therefore in the interest of some to gain this status, to the extent that there is little justification for belonging to them. That is why, in my view, the basic mission of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Veterans, which we are discussing today, given that the subjectivity of the veto of the State Council is addressed to this law, is, of course, to enable the status of a war veteran to certain categories of persons who were at great risk to Slovenia before and after the 10-day war, or that they have been specifically exposed or sacrificed to the common good of the new countries in particular. Perhaps, as we have rightly pointed out in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, when considering the bill, that the individual beneficiaries of the status of war veterans who have obtained this status are not quite comparable to those of those war veterans who are directly like armed members of the territorial defence or the police defending the new country from the aggression of the Yugoslav army. However, once you have given a certain category status, you give them some rights, it is very difficult on the basis of the constitutional right later to take that right. Therefore, it is also very difficult at this time to change the attitude towards the rights of one and of one status and rights, then of the same status with a few later justifications. However, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group does not consider it appropriate to give a nickname publicly to those beneficiaries, who are also given the status of a war veteran by this law, and to humiliate them with some "cookers", but there is no question whether these are cooks who cooked on the ground in the territorial defence or police or here in the national assembly, the manoeuvred structure of national protection or the Presidency. It does not seem right for us to be practically demeaning those who are doing the right thing. However, we are also convinced that the subject matter of the Council of State is not by any chance relevant to the issue of the new beneficiaries of the status of war veteran for Slovenia, and on this issue alone would certainly not be known and would not be dealt with today. The repeal of the law on the financing of the NOV Union of Fighters is certainly the issue that has been so substantively and comprehensively present that we today have a veto or a request for re-decision on the law. Notwithstanding the fact that the funding of the NOV Fighter Union is regulated by a specific law, only nominally the funding for this funding is allocated through an annual budget. At least I personally believe that, at a certain point in time, there was no need to upset society. The law as such could still work in the same sense, with the same scope of rights, but at the time we need some kind of partnership, it would be good to "not smoke", but regardless, the Slovenian People's Party will re- back up the subject matter of the law or we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Han has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, once again, the House of Honor! Today we are discussing, as already respected Potrce said, the second law that the state council has voted veto. I therefore wonder why the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or the Government has drawn up such laws as are uncoordinated, non-lifely, and can also say constitutionally controversial. And it puts such laws under the current lane into the legislative procedure. Such a marriage is also a novelty of the war veterans' law, which, I will say, is somehow a bad marriage and I could personally divide it into two parts. The first part extending the range of beneficiaries for the status of war veterans who participated in the 1991 Independent War. And the second part, which is, for us, the Social Democrats, and for me personally disputed and therefore cannot be adopted by law, is this section of the law, where the fighting organisation of the government takes or reduces funds for their social activities, despite the fact that the fighters of the national liberation war of Slovenia have a special position or special protection provided by the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that, in Europe, they also have similar laws which recognize a special status for the fight against Nazism and fascism. In this case, our government is not looking for European comparable legislation, nor is the European Directive replaced by other laws. As a result of all this, I am convinced that this is another attempt to evaluate the importance of the national liberation struggle by the ruling coalition, if I am more precise than the Minister for Labour, Social and Family. Personally, I believe that the participants in the national liberation struggle at that time displayed a faithful expression of genuine patriotism and were not burdened by ideology, unlike some today who want to make this story an ideological war. However, historical truths cannot be a matter of political compromise, or worse still, some even live in the belief that, in this case, by abolishing or reducing funds for the operation of the fighting organisation, they can alter or obscure historical facts. Whatever the outcome of today's vote, which I know will be, all I can say is that I am a representative of a generation born almost 30 years after World War II, and I am not afraid that history, which is just one, would change because of politics or an individual or the adoption of laws. That is why I am confident that we will be concerned about generations that we respect and are proud of the historical facts that I believe are going in favour of the national liberation fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Han. I'm sorry. That's what happens. Mr Rugelj has the floor. Mr. Grimes is not here. He's been replaced with Mr. Pike. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. I, when I read this law, cannot agree with the opposition that it is bad, this law saves in two areas of injustice to those who have participated in the self-serving war for Slovenia, and, of course, if extended across reasonable borders, it is not right for those who fought with weapons. And let's say that this case is the customs, I'll just say, it's always necessary to put a border somewhere. On the other hand, there's always one that falls out of this line. Sorry, that's the way it is in life. I think that this law also saves the financing of veteran organisations, and that it saves them in a favourable way, because the funding so far has not been fair. The criteria for funding, which will be prescribed more precisely by a sub-law, but the principle law defines the number of members with status, property, the programme of society, I think they are fine, why not. Veterans also have the right to participate equally in this financial cake, as a result of the independence war for Slovenia. I will support this law myself because it does not diminish the rights of the NOB fighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Once again, we are faced with the fact that the Minister - I am truly sorry that he is not - Mr Drobnič, when he and the Government are interfering with the implementation of the basic constitutional charter, is essentially changing the documents on which today's Republic is founded. And for that, no one seems to care. In fact, it interferes with that document that was produced with the great agreement of all political forces. Of course, we have already passed laws that were inconsistent with the Constitution, and no one has come forward, and we have been very much sung by directives of the European Union if they cannot be visited. And when it comes to funding the NOBs, it's not just a coincidence again, but it's actually a planned action. For in some way we have listened to the solemn promise already made by you, Mr President-respected, in this national assembly as a sacred thing. On the other hand, tomorrow we may witness giving to those collaborators and traitors of the Slovenian nation who are now declared exiles. This is going to happen very soon. If we look at the budget, we see that the items that are intended for additional financial assistance to the church are getting bigger. And it's not just a coincidence. Of course, you have to take that money somewhere. If you take money from a fighter, it's less written. But tomorrow history will also be rewritten and the circle will be concluded, and Mr Drobnic will be happy, probably. Of course, we cannot support such a law, and we welcome the veto of the State Council. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the decision of the State Council and we will not support this disgrace that the government is doing to itself and to the Republic of Slovenia when it presents itself outside. Nevertheless, we are part of a coalition based on antifascism, remember this, a respected colleague and colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The elected veto of the State Council has allowed time for serious reflection within the parties that voted in the third reading of the War Veterans Act. The meeting of representatives of coalition parties, however, was primarily aimed at uniting support between the two laws under consideration today. So we can expect support for this bill. Regular annual meetings of members and members of the Union of Fighters are held during this time. I can tell you from experience that there's a lot of resentment. Not only has this government coalition reduced it last year, but the more appropriate term is to delineate the financing of NOB fighters and participants, it has now deleted or repealed the law on the financing of the Association of National Liberation Warriors, which was adopted in 1990, which provides for the financing of the organisation from budgets, including or, in particular, from the State, on the basis of the annual work programme of the Union. I would like to point out that this is a relationship that unites the fighters of the National Liberation War, regardless of their political affiliation. Let me mention just one task, which is to preserve and develop historical traditions. In 1990, the legislator identified the fighting organisation as of such a high social importance that the State allocates funds from the budget for their operation. Of course, one might say that this is not about determining the amount of funds and that today's bill will also allow for the financing of fighters, says the minister, or says that in a way that will be equal for all veteran associations. At the same time, a very clear move that relies mainly on the nodding or approval of veterans outside the fighting organisation, but you forget or forget that many veterans of the war for Slovenia are also members of the NOB fighters and as well as other fighters, we can agree with the assessment that more resources are likely to be allocated to veteran wars for Slovenia, but not to the detriment of the NOB fighters. In doing so, I would like to point out once again that this is not about the preparation of meetings where we would share free food or organize trips for which members and members would not pay contributions from their own pockets. Even when attending individual Memorials or celebrations, organizers collect contributions from individual participants and participants, nothing is free of charge. The criteria and funding should already be defined by the law we are adopting today. Why? Because it must not become a financing depending on the individual minister and his affection or dislike for events and individuals from Slovenian history. Of course, those more favored by the defeaters of World War II will not have a hearing for the participants and participants in the national liberation war, whether he will be allowed to decide how much money we will devote to the relationship of the fighters. The amount of funds to whom will depend on the number of members of each veteran association. This will take into account only members and members who have so-called status. This means that the financing of the union of fighters will soon be completed, or at least in due course. Nature's doing her job. At the same time, until the status of veterans of war for Slovenia is granted, we will be very broad-minded. But nothing helps. Let me put it this way. We're all dead in the long run. Then the country will forget about 1941-1945, 1991. I am sure that this will not be the case, I am sure, as soon as the year 1991 is removed, that I am not talking about the years of the war against the invader, there will be more opportunities for us to have only one veteran association to care for the preservation and development of historical traditions. For even now, we have worked well together in a place where obedience is both for one another and for the other. I can only hope that today there will be a national assembly, that today we will attach Members and Members of the National Assembly to the decision of the State Council and reject the proposed law, which is certainly not proud of this house, not to say that the current Slovenian policy is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Today, there have been many reflections and discussions about who will be there, who will not be there, and who else can be there? Surely there have been many of these legitimate thoughts, but there is always a question of where that limit is. There are borders everywhere, and borders are usually always guilty. The one on this side of the border, for example, is positively rewarded, but the one that is immediately at the second stop can be negative because it falls out of a circle. But the boundaries need to be set. Of course, then there are doubts as to where those righteous boundaries are, where that righteous boundary is or perhaps makes sense. We know that fair borders are nowhere and they can't be here either, they can only be objectively acceptable or possible boundaries. And the moment we think we've found that objectively acceptable limit, there's always some new doubt, or it's the right one, and it's going on. And that's how it is in life, and I would say, it's totally acceptable and normal, but there's always a limit. I will support this law myself, that is to say, I will vote against the veto, because I think that Slovenia, as a country, is obliged to do so, as is enshrined in that law. But you might ask yourself, why is it only now? Why didn't this happen a long time ago? I can think of a lot of those, or they were, that I wouldn't be unjust, which was a disruptive factor in their independence. But I wouldn't hope to argue, and I don't think it's possible to say that we've all been equally deserving, and that we don't have to look for those who are responsible for independence. You can't do that. There's someone out front, somewhere, more involved if there's an action like that, and it's a big deal in Slovenian history. And of course, here comes the question of who could be a war veteran from the period of independence. I'm just going to talk about this and nothing else, and I'm not going to mix apples and pears, because I know that the veteran organizations of Maister's fighters are gone and they're not being funded anymore. The independence took place in 1991, after the territorial defence of Slovenia was disarmed in 1990 on the orders of the Republic’s Territorial Defence Headquarters, perhaps another who remained silent. I'd like to stop here and say a few words. There's been an order to disarm the territorial defense and there's no defence without weapons. They knew whether we all knew, both those who issued this order, as well as those we had in the programme with which we went to the first democratic elections of independence, at least preventively, at least preemptively without a weapon of independence would not be possible and would not be possible. There were 13 municipalities in Slovenia that did not hand over weapons and ammunition, and that was not enough. And now I'd go back to the beginning. Members of bodies or bodies in individual municipalities that have decided not to extradite or surrender weapons and immediately disperse them or hide them from JLA may have at least such conditions for the status of a veteran as a category that receives status. There's a border against which side this has to be. These were usually saints for SLO and DS, members of these bodies were members, some members, not all, executive councils, presidents, secretaries of public defence, civil protection secretaries, mayor, commanders of municipal territorial defence, and, of course, the question now arises as to whether they might be justified because we have heard a few thoughts today about who is not yet in this law, but could be. That's one of the thoughts. I will personally support this law, and I will oppose the veto, I will say this again, thinking about these people who have participated in this action, but it certainly makes sense, perhaps for a thought to go forward, who has not yet been taken into account, this could have been. There are 13 congregations and 13 bodies in these congregations. Now, here's the case I was talking about. Only in the municipality of Slovenske Konjice did we hand over thousands of automatic rifles, 300 automatic pistols and several trucks, not to say "trucks" ammunition. And all of this was used in the next year's independence, 1991. And of course, now we're wondering if those people who worked here have something to do with being classified on the other side of the border that determines the status of a veteran. Just to think. I've already said twice that I'm going to support this marriage and I'm going to say it again in the end. So it's those congregations that didn't comply with the orders of the Republican headquarters of territorial defense and didn't hand over their weapons. That order, or such an order at that time, can certainly be considered as capitulation, or as a category of cooperation with the occupying party. We saw it later. This law, such as the one on which the veto was given, is necessary because the content of this law is quite close to an objectively acceptable or objectively possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u188	This is Maja Potter's emissary. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I was thinking when I listened to Mr. Petan, and I remembered the thin line from Kosmach's ballad about the Troben and the train. And this is a starting point for me to think that it is rude to interfere with the law in financing a fighting organisation, including from the point of view of free association. Because what is happening now is an infringement of this right, which, as a citizen, does not give me the opportunity to continue the activity that some will not be able to continue by joining the associations of fighters because of the boundary between life and death. But what my fellow Member Kontič has said, and I can only confirm with my Maribor experience, is that we are seemingly creating tension between various veteran organisations, because every first Saturday in July, representatives of various veteran organisations gather on the Limbu coast and say the eulogy about patriotism. The Borčev organization also departs from the premises of Rudolph Maistra in Maribor and could also be said. And by doing so, the continuation of tradition handed over the national liberation struggle and the struggle for national emancipation. It is therefore totally unacceptable to me what the government and Minister Drobnic have prepared on her behalf about this law, and I find this to be a mere provocation of noble patriotic feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u190	This is one of those points that we are discussing in the way that Yugoslavia was before II. World war, when the authorities decided to do something against will, against reason, against human good examples and purposes, and sent messengers to the streets. And this village came back and told the chief what the nation was saying. Nerve people, the people are dissatisfied. You take away things that seem to him to be self-involved and deserving. And order your ministers, tighten up, tighten up. And of course over time it happens again and so on, and of course the nation is still negligent. Then all of a sudden, it doesn't bother anymore. And then, of course, he says, let it go. It is obvious that you have committed yourself to stretching so much time, destroying the values that have been for many citizens and citizens in this country, the Republic of Slovenia, saints, whether it is the previous law, when it comes to solidarity with people who have become sick or are potentially suffering from asbestos disease, or now that it is about counting people and applying those goals that you have long been committed to, and as some of the new commitment or of other such organisations would like to have happened before. So the current values need to be revalued, no matter how long it has been said that time is running out for those first group veterans, and that these societies will not actually have to be financed that long. That is why I believe that you will be successful today, regardless of the fact that you have obviously not been able to come to the committee - or otherwise, you did not feel worthy to bring a sufficient number of members of the coalition to the committee to vote in favour of re-confirming the law. But today, as you say, you will do so easily with a calm conscience. Mr Drobnič, as long as the Minister does not take kindly to the programmes of societies that preserve the traditions of the national liberation fight and in which the members of the association of associations of fighters are mainly united. I'm sure that won't be the case. We can meet, we can talk, the purpose is different. I know him very well. He doesn't change miracles. So things are quite presentable. Either the people or we Members are still negligent, because it would probably be better if we kept quiet, but we could imagine, and maybe sometimes we'd give up or start thinking, why the hell don't they bother you anymore - because they see that it doesn't make sense because we're overbearing because we have such an arrogant attitude that only we like. The Member even gets rid of the statement that most of them were probably in the last ten years and more against settling this issue as far as the veterans are concerned, because we were probably not intimate about it. Please, Mr. Petan, don't take any more than you can bear. Too much credit you can handle on your own. I don't know where you've been, I don't know what you've been doing, I don't care. But I know that in Slovenia there was a plebiscite, but I know who made up the first democratic authority, I know who made up this Slovenia ten years and more after all, if you want the parameters that were necessary for the state to establish with all those values, the civilizational achievements that democratic countries have achieved, we have also faced with us, and I believe we have built them all into our work and more, some things we have also done as an example to those old, democratically regulated countries. And that's why it's so sad that now, like, 60 years and more after World War II, you're getting into these societies, these people that are uniting in these societies. But this is a mirror, this is a picture that you can easily handle. I will follow my decision as well as the adoption of the law, and I will oppose the law and support the veto proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u192	Thank you. It is likely that everyone will agree with me that we are obviously, but I will be very honest, and everyone in this room who knows and wants to talk, and no one will listen. In the Slovenian National Party, we have said nothing and I will only say it once more - but I think five times is enough - to make things perfectly clear for all of us, completely clear. In particular, in this law and by interfering with the rights of the fighters of the national liberation war, both moral and constitutional principles are violated. I do not understand that it has been clearly and loudly written and stated by the Legislative and Legal Service and we all know in this National Assembly that any change in relation to the association of associations of fighters is an act under Article 18 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Charter of Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Mar, colleagues and colleagues, you don't understand that. You do not understand that this law is precisely this act, and this act constitutes a violation of the constitutional law. And morally, colleagues and colleagues, don't you understand that some fighters fought at some point for a nation? And finally, no number, no material value is as harmful as destroying the moral values of an act. We cannot destroy the moral values of an act in order to take them there and give them to someone else, because there are, however, moral values that have been and that will and will not yet be different. It is a pity that we were very glad that this government also listened to the Association of Veterans of the War on Slovenia and to all those who were still absent from this law in one way or another and are included. A fair gesture, a smart gesture, a beautiful gesture and a shame it is that we say, as we do our homework, what we have built together with our hands, with our ass down. What a waste of time, what moral, moral and material damage is caused by the deliberate violation of Article 18 of the Constitutional Law, because we are interfering with the rights already acquired, which are inconspicuous and which are based on moral action such as the moral act of values for that country, the Republic of Slovenia, all the new provisions of this law, which I once again say, I thank God. These are the people who have been hiding weapons, these are the people who in one way or another have helped us to live in our own country of the Republic of Slovenia today and as my respected colleague Gulic said, this is what has been said in the previous century and we cannot undermine the material values of the 19th century, which have been created to build them for the 21st century. Let us, however, be reasonable together and not least, as other respected colleagues have said, because it is not about seeking certain rights that are not. It's about preserving rights that go to people for all that moral, honest, what they've done for all of us. Only for the preservation of these rights. And the extension of these rights to people who showed up again in 1990 and gave us today's free country the Republic of Slovenia and nothing else. And I propose that we remain in the law with additions, without any changes in the area of violating the rights of national liberation fighters, to give careful thought to the customs, whether only the executives are justified, or others, or to leave this law, to complete and find another category of people that we may have released, who have given their lives or their efforts for today's independent State of the Republic of Slovenia. Let us once see together that certain rights are given, that these rights are given from moral values, not from the mind, not by entering into the law and preserving them and extending them to all who have earned it. Our face will be clean to our society and to our country. All of us in this National Assembly will have a upright attitude and a clear conscience to thank in some way all the people who have allowed us to now, even after a long time, we still have the opportunity and the right to discuss democratically what this country will be like in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will also support the law under consideration once again, focusing mainly on defining the concept of war veterans. In particular, because some fighters or veterans were neglected and some overpowered. We all know that in the previous system, until the independence of Maister's fighters, fighters for the northern border, they should not have been very much to talk about, and only in Slovenia alone is General Maister, and in particular the fighters, Master's fighters, have received a well-deserved recognition. The inhabitants of the village of Libelič may also be included, who, after World War I with a diversionary activity, moved the border stones by staying in Slovenia. And also later, then the national liberation fighters themselves were somehow ranked in two categories. We all know that tigers who have had experience before just II. World war against fascism. The base victims of the TIGR and the rebel against Italian fascism also fell. And yet only in recent times do we mention their contribution to the national liberation fight. Somehow in the shadows were also all those fighters on the Allied side who, after the capitulation of Italy, were mainly Slovenian boys from the occupied areas of Italy, those between I and II. World War II remained under Italy, which joined the Allies. The Allies have also trained some, tyings, pilots and so on. Although they fought on the Allied side or later in the framework of the NOB, they were somehow blackened after the war. Just the definition of who is a war veteran, who is a veteran, is somehow being corrected by these injustices. Today we talk a lot about funding. Hasn't the fighting organization been funded so far. Do we not see the market that the fighting organisation also deals with a profit organization? It rents the buildings, the specific home of the union of fighters in Škofja Loka is rented by the insurance house, one political party and one parliamentary office is inside, and maybe something else, that's fast. Large capital has a fighting organisation in infrastructure, not only our home of the union of fighters, but also holiday facilities and so on. All of this also sheds a bad light on the organization itself. Above all, the question of membership is raised. There are more and more members who were not even involved in the national liberation fight because they are too young. Perhaps it would point to the separation of the members of the union of fighters and the sympathizers of this organization. One would have been those who had truly experienced war fighting on the Allied side. But those who are too young, I don't mind if they sympathize with the spirit of antifascism, the spirit of free ideas, but somehow it doesn't all go to the same organization. Maybe we're getting boomerang back because we used to make fun of Montenegrins, who apparently also had official status or employment as a national hero's assistant and similar employment, and all those younger ones who didn't participate in the national liberation fight are also throwing the light. They look grotesque to me. I think there's only eight more of Cankar's battalion fighters alive, and every year I see younger ones dressed in partisan uniforms. I don't know if that belongs together. Fighters, those who have experienced the Dražgoš, yes, but what they are looking for there is hard to imagine. I think they're putting a bad light on the organization itself. That's why I think the law, like it is, is totally fine and I'll back him up again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Although I must admit that I cannot believe my ears, what I am listening to in the Slovenian Parliament. In fact, I would like to say that we must have a truly very decent attitude towards veteran organisations, especially veterans. They have elected the Slovenian country, and it is up to us, the younger generations, to preserve it, to develop it, and to preserve all these features, all of these memories, and not least to prove to all those in neighbouring countries who are also trying to reduce the impact of these achievements today, when we joined Slovenia, when we organized ourselves as a country and made our way to independence. Who else but the younger generations can assume these responsibilities? The older generation has done so much for us. And that is why it is incomprehensible that the proposer tries to reduce the impact of one and increase the other at the expense of veteran organisations. It means that it causes dissension, causes discomfort, and that is what we must certainly not afford today in Slovenia alone. We must have a respectful attitude toward all veterans. In particular, as my colleague Ziherl says, if there are only eight more fighters of Cankar's battalion alive, the others need to be even more active. And it is true, there are many more members of the union of fighters to preserve these traditions. We can say that there is already a shortage of resources to enable them to carry out their mission successfully, and many times the congregations must be involved in carrying out all the tasks. By saying that something is foreshadowed and similar, it is completely incorrect. And I really want to discuss this subject in a dignified way, not in such a way as to interfere with the means intended to preserve all those features and events that have emerged in the four-year fight for freedom and that we are today a single country. So that such a law cannot really be supported, especially because one minister alone can decide how he will act. Such greatness no minister in any Slovenian government can have. That's why this law is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will be in this House tonight before the midterm. We will have eyes and minds in different people in Slovenia. Our decision will make them wonder whether we can really do this in this House because it would be a time to do this. Conciliation on the past, due respect for those we owe to, our independence, our national identity and the opportunity to talk today about where Slovenia will go in the future. A poor sign is, Mr President, also for the activities that you are taking, related to the issue of the correction of injustices and the like, if a minister and a government remembers that it is necessary to give, when we are looking for this very difficult to reach agreement on certain issues, an earpiece of the relationship of fighters, if someone is seriously disturbed by the fact that some people believe that the traditions that are built into the building of a nation are longer than people's lives. I do not understand how, in the same breath, Ziherl can explain how it is necessary, and I agree with him, to do everything in order to preserve the Maistra tradition and its fighters, but at the same time it bothers him if someone preserves and tries to preserve the tradition of fighting the invader in this country. Dear fellow, I understand that this is different in Los Angeles, but we in Styria do not have such problems as you have at your end and we do not mind that the partisans have done their job, it is true, we are proud and we are grateful that they have chosen a place for us today to dream of Slovenia in Europe and Europe without Nazis, without totalitarians, of diverse, completely defined species. The talk about patriotism, which is very often heard on the right hand side of the political spectrum, the talk to young people about knowing where they came from and where they're going, is empty, if we are not able to accept that it is not possible to make political decisions, as it is ever expensive, about whether they will finance a union of fighters or not, of course, for other entities as well, but it has already been regulated by law and I do not understand, as my colleague Brenčič said, why someone now had to stumble right at this point, as if we had nothing else to mean. This will also be a very clear sign or someone seriously thinks that it is necessary to agree together on the basic projects of this country in the future. If anyone believes that he will only agree on what suits him and what favors him and will triumph, or else the state of the spirit in the whole country, the state of the institutions of this country does not care, then he is wrong and, after all, he is right to be wrong. There won't be a long breath, this beating of what came through the tribulation has come through the ups and downs of people. Kocbek knows a lot about this. It didn't go without internal battles, it didn't go without mistakes, nobody hides it, but it did. I don't know if any of us here can say today that I would have hoped to make the decision that those people then made, risked their lives. Why do we now have to humiliate them if they are going and deny their contribution, so we don't really talk much about them. We are talking about our own littleness about the inability to understand who could be killed when it was necessary, and, of course, we will vote on it tonight. The State Council gave us a chance to get a retrial. It'd be a great time to take advantage of it, because there won't be a lot of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u200	Since I've been mentioned twice, I'm obviously misinterpreted. I support all these members of the union of fighters who were truly present in the national liberation struggle. I am also in favour of transferring these traditions or to the next generation. When we were taken to these places in the school days, let's say a dog's level, then across from the Old Top, where the first partisan victory was important when they destroyed a column of German cops, they armed themselves, and that's when Cankar's battalion was created, and so on. However, I do not agree with the fact that the organisation which is a co-financed company dealing with profitable activities would be renting real estate and so on. And then there's no tradition. [[?]] Continues this way. One is fighters, the other is to be established or whatever, a group that will continue these traditions and must be continued. And then there's the monuments. It would be bad for the nation if it did not preserve its monuments, but unfortunately, in Škofja Loka is the largest monument to the 50th hostages shot, it is on the shoulders of the congregation, at least partly but 100% not. And don't talk then, who's holding up something, and why does it need money? And I think we certainly must not forget all these monuments, all the traditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleague Ziherl. But you guys really messed things up, so I think we can meet in the lobby, and let's clear up some things so we don't get too tired right now. There's something else I'd like to say about tigers. It is not until now that the first tiger announcements have appeared in public. We have published about tigers in the newspaper and in professional literature at least since the 1970s, and this has been a positive publication, at least since the 1970s. I can bring you a bibliography written by a famous coastal historian, Dr Branko Marušič, and it was published in the Primorski News. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said this, or I would like to say this earlier, that I am ending up with tigers. Maybe you don't think it all started on April 27th last year with a speech by the Prime Minister at Mali Gora nad Ribnica. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that he will not take any action to separate the Slovenian people. He also agreed to the adoption of war laws. Now the coalition gradually shuts down the funding of the Union of Fighters. This really isn't normal. Last year, we, the Social Democrats, proposed a day of independence and unity. We based it on the historical process of the 20th century, from the activities of General Maistra at the end of World War I in Styria to the accession of Prekmur, from the fight against fascism between the two wars to the convincing military victory and the national liberation struggle in World War II, which definitely helped to join Primorska in her homeland. As a struggle of the Slovenian people against the invader for the liberation of the entire national territory, the national liberation struggle has played an important historical role. The accession of Primorska was definitively confirmed in 1975 by the Crompic Agreements, with an international treaty, with a national liberation battle, we fought our statehood within the country. With the independence of 1991, however, efforts were made to promote state autonomy and sovereignty and the international recognition of Slovenia. And this whole historical process is based on the partisans and veterans of the self-sustaining war, and it is truly incomprehensible that you now want to end the financing of the Veteran organization of the Union of Fighters by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Clavor has the floor. He won't. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to these debates today, I am also amazed and stared at the way the cultarians among veterans are trying to do. It seems most normal to me that veteran organisations are aligned, all those organisations, and I think we have them whose members had a particularly patriotic feeling at the right time, when it was the most difficult for the nation and for the country, or when it was necessary to show their patriotism, their patriotism for us to have our own country today. And these debates, which implicitly offend veteran wars for Slovenia, if they cannot be an equal organisation, which is what this law wants to achieve, these debates seem extremely offensive to me. And they try to be at the level of what is actually happening in the previous regime, when some veteran organisations or some authentic Slovenians should not have been recognised, public and I take these discussions from these positions. According to his colleague Bevk, the most beautiful proof was that in the 1970s, the first articles on tigers were already published. Yes, gentlemen, even today, they are the same leaders of a union of fighters. Why didn't they finance the debate at the time, 45, about tigers? It was equality. And now last year's leader says they were tigers, Mr. Residents, terrorists. However, for this reason, I feel justified in speaking out of these positions because I come from a family that has nothing to be ashamed of, which has always been on the right side, which has given Maister's fighters, who has given partisans, who have also done something not least for independence. And look, I also know the family, I'm actually going to point out the case where Maister's fighters were partisans from the same house and interesting, including after the veterans of the war for Slovenia. Some houses are more marked by patriotism. And from this house, someone after the war, although partisan, refused entry into the union of fighters, because, I'm going to be honest, he said that in 1945 there was already a whole bunch of those who paraded after Bistrica in 1941 with "heil Hitler" in the parade. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And not to generalize so unilaterally. We know what and how they were treated by Master's fighters. Whether that tells you that, I think, in 2000, when they lived three, one hundred years old, one of them wrote himself, received the first national medals, despite the fact that the President of the Presidency or the President of the Republic could have decorated them as President of Slovenia at least ten years earlier. Is that equality? Is it the equality of treatment that the high policy demanded that the Maistre statue be transferred from a hidden city in the Maribor congregation, with no notice, insulting, humiliating profanity at the expense of Maistre. I take the view that I think it is finally right for veteran organisations to be equal and that this will best preserve the NOB tradition, for which my family has also done a lot and no one can tell me that I am against them. Some who perform here fear that this wave of tradition has also benefited from some material benefits. [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u205	Please, only Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u206	Once again, veterans of the wars for Slovenia have best continued the tradition of NOBs, authentic partisans, those who really fought. But he was not, I must say, every politician on the NOB line, some of whom are still extremely loud today. And despise other veteran organizations, despise tigers. Is that right? I think that only on the basis of the equality of veteran organisations can we achieve that noble patriotic feelings will be truly respected and that we will be able to pass them on to the next generation, not that we will have amphibians. Look, under this law, which I will support today, it seems to me that he may not be entirely fair to all beneficiaries. In fact, I got almost 300 signatures and a request from the surrounding residents of the Ložnica warehouse that in fact everyone collectively helped, everyone collectively also helped hide weapons, and wondered whether they would be among the beneficiaries. I couldn't give them that answer. It is true, though, that if not everyone in the area were at the time, there would probably not be such a disunity. For this reason, I am in favour of equal treatment for those who directly worked for the country. Do not deny their equality! Such saying that everyone else is worthless would no longer be desirable in Slovenia alone. Finally, let us acknowledge that Maister's fighters, tigers, partisans and veterans of war for Slovenia were equal patriots and are equally responsible for having a country. And again, you want sectarianism within these organizations. And I guarantee you that the authentic partisans disagree with you. Those who have gone from immaterial interests to NOB are also some of those Mayan bugs that passed through 1945 or have become the loudest, and they also feel that this is the basis for some special privileges. I listened on the radio recently, when a lady who was a partisan from the White Land said, I think there was a talk about, "I and here some in the White Land who were actually through and through during the war we didn't get anything." We've been forgotten." And I guarantee you, there are a lot of people among the peasant people who have been partisans, despised, imprisoned and despised. And think of those who are for equality among veterans. And those who have truly noble feelings have fought for their homeland, no matter what period. And I think that one of you here is coming out of ideological tendencies, from very ideological tendencies, that something that was part of what was, in fact, in a way, too much needs to be preserved, because it was just ours, but ideologically ours. And once again, I call for common sense, for a healthy attitude towards patriotism and for veteran organisations to be equal in the future, for them to cooperate with each other, and that it will not actually happen that those who really fought for their homeland would be forgotten as were the tigers and the Maister fighters and the first recognitions only if one survives until the hundredth year as happened to the Master's fighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Bevk responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u208	I suggest to Mr Jerovsk that he report a master's assignment on authentic partisans. But I think he'll still be just a chemistry engineer. For newspapers, not only in newspapers, in the 1970 ’ s, they also erected memorial tablets for tigers, such as Albert Rejc in Tolmin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr President, allow me, my fellow Members and colleagues, to use a quote to begin with, the events of the National Assembly in May 2000, May 22nd, 2002. So you said, Mr President: "I believe that just as Hitler took Nazism, he magnified the Aryan race, the Jews spat with frauds, thieves, hypocrites, rats, with the floor, so do we, I have, for 50 years, have heard of pure, brave, self-sacrificing communist heroes and liberators who build us a bright future, and of domestic traitors, collaborators and fascists, rats and so on." You have done this, Mr President Tsukati, when you read the House of Homeland Security and based it as an oath to Almighty God and not an oath to Hitler. I'm not going to repeat it, too, because Vice President Valentin Pohorec was trying to somehow block the flow of thought, of course, with the general disgust of the present. But I do believe that at that time the process has begun, which, of course, with very clear arrows, is now continuing and strengthening significantly. This afternoon we met with a way to walk the human being, when we reexamined the veto on asbestos law, and now we are working on how to walk history, which, as I just said, had been initiated much earlier. The number of different measures is not random at all, it has a particular purpose and goes towards lowering the values of NOBs. I am not just talking about the 2005 rebalancing when the association has been condemned to lose 74% of its subsidies or support for its activities, which, as we have already heard today, is broad and does not just extend to a certain range of their acquisitions. It continued with the arrival of a new government, by recruiting in the relevant institutions from the Institute for Recent History, which has a new leadership, to the Museum of Recent History, which has a new leadership, to the new government commission for the implementation of the laws on the correction of injustices and on the issue of hidden graves, of course, to search for the possibility of writing new textbooks, to coordinate so-called war laws and to seek even very controversial solutions, which would be by means of a full explanation of various articles, but not articles enough to solve memory and damages. The great reconciliation words we spoke about today, including Prime Minister Janez Janša, on 9 May last year, were beautiful, but whether anyone in the 2006/07 budget, as well as in the rebalancing, supported the investment in this monument, of which Mr Janša spoke here and there. I'm talking about the Cere monument, which was half built and started right in these rooms in order to preserve a more glorious memory of tigers. In short, how much is missing, and in this marriage, I am not going out of my mind if I ask myself how much is lacking in declaring those who swore an oath to Hitler as patriots and partisans as criminals. In the context of all the events we have witnessed in recent years, or in the last two years, or slightly less. Pursuing justice, if all societies are to be equal, as often as we hear, to fight equally for funds, based on a sub-menu, and I quote here the president of the new Slovenian undertaking, that the crown will not fall off their heads if they have to compete for state money with a similar interest as other societies, because it is a relic from the past, after which the relationship received a subsidy as a kind of an income. Be careful, we are talking about those people found in Article 18 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter. And allow me to read it: "Republic of Slovenia provides," by the way, in June 1991, it was issued and signed and adopted, "The Republic of Slovenia guarantees the protection of the rights of fighters, military disabled persons, members of families of fallen fighters and beneficiaries of military pensions with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and fighters, military disabled persons and members of families of the fallen fighters of NOV Yugoslavia in the country of Furlanija-Julia landscape in the Republic of Italy and in the country of Koroška in the Republic of Austria to the extent and under the conditions laid down by the rules of the SFRJ pending the implementation of this law." That's what you're up to today, Mr. Petty Officer. But I don't think it's a matter of funding. And I think we're all here to support this veto, on the same page. It's not a matter of funding, far from it. This is a special message, which is not politically correct, not to the past, not to the political past, and which is not correct to recorders of history. If you're writing it on a new note, it's not written on the back of a lie like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you. Since I've been quoted, allow me a replica. Mrs Šica, you didn't understand me at the time, and I don't expect you to ever understand me on this subject. That's why there's so much to say. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u212	I'm calling again, this time with the Veterans Act. Whoever wants to understand the veto of the State Council is the essence or the'scrap', as it is called, Article 9, because we have reached into the so-called taboo of the theme of the fighting organisation, which no one should have touched. Veterans, the expansion, the number of them inside, is just an excuse. I'd like to touch the veterans first. About a week ago, I had one of the firefighters of a voluntary fire company in the Miren Valley and he said that we had forgotten them because they too were an important member of the independence or during the war for Slovenia. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] They weren't hiding, but then one of the soldiers of the Yugoslav army basically "tore off" and threatened to drop military fuel in the luft for a week. [[...]] If that were to happen, none of those residents or those who were guarding there, besides firefighters, medical personnel and others, would remain alive. Fortunately, otherwise, this war for Slovenia came to an end quickly, but no one predicted how long it would take, as well as those who had happened to them, whether they had been killed or anything, I think the war was terrifying or left consequences, such as World War II. As far as Article 9 of this Law is concerned, it has been said in my opinion that too many words, too many emotions, have been said to offend us that this is humiliating, shameful, that we are changing history. In fact, this law does not change anything, neither does history nor does the role of fighters. No one cuts their status, no one cuts their budget money. There is no legal nor substantive reason for treating veteran organisations differently, so that veterans would be less valuable to Slovenia than the NOB fighters. The law lays down their status and funding on the same basis, i.e. constitutional decisions. By repealing the law on the financing of the association of national liberation fighters of Slovenia, the current means of providing funds for its operation will not change, said the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Those who do not have a purpose and do not want to help tend to be very eager to do at least harm. And the writers and proponents of this law are, in the part that abolishes the funding of the NOV fighters' associations and removes the status of this organization, those who harm and have pest status cause needless nervousness and conflict. Therefore, this move is totally unfounded, unreasonable and particularly problematic. I do not know if we Members in this National Assembly have the moral right at all to confirm this intention today. However, I know that we do not have the political right to destroy and discredit the period of Slovenian history in such a cheap bureaucratic way, which has also paved the way for independence. It didn't start and didn't end yesterday, but it started by many generations, and one of these generations is this generation that unites within a union of fighters. So, however we try to interpret things, it is more than clear that through such a manoeuvre as this law, he is trying to interpret history and this is the real purpose of the amendment of this law. But whoever doesn't respect and acknowledge their own history, whether it's positive or negative, it's also not worth it, and all those who have discussed today in favour of the organization of united fighters, and who you taught us about history for the 1960s, you're not worth this historic period.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u216	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! Today the debate has gone in some strange direction, I must say that so far these comparisons have been made between the veteran organisation, which brings together the Slovenian independence fighters and the veteran organization, which brings together the fighters in 1941, 1945, I have not heard before. This has not been placed here until today as any distinction, but today all of a sudden it begins. It started obviously from, and now I'm going to say what Mr Jerovšek used earlier, ideological reasons. Of course, we speak for ideological reasons, probably all because antifascism and anti-Nazis are also ideology, and this is an ideology that speaks about equality of people, about justice, and about the fact that people are not to be selected in any way, excluded. Today, for the second time, we want to make it legal, it is said to separate again, the previously ill, but now old and unable to remove in some way from their social life, because now it is not about the rights of individuals, they are, of course, left with pensions, the ones they have, the invalids, but it is about what kind of bringing them together, which is noble and noble to us. I'll tell you why we're noble. If previous generations had not raised us as free, as free-minded, as patriotic as we were in 1990, plebiscite would not have been the same as it was, the results would have been significantly different, and even in 1991 there would have been no such general resistance against the Yugoslav people's army and the aggression of that part of Yugoslavia. That was the result, and this must be respected. We are not genetically patriotic and genetically free-minded and committed to Slovenia, that is what our "old" taught us, and our schools, of course, also the fighters who came around and because it was financed in this way. I am not a member of the union of fighters, nor of the youth of the union of fighters, I am a member of the Veterans war for Slovenia, and of the associations of officers for Slovenia, and therefore I can speak very neutrally. But I also like to go to fight parties, and I do what I do to them, most of all in Podoljubelj, where the camp’s branch was. And I also helped forcibly mobilized, German soldiers to do some things for them to gain their rights, their honor, their reputation. Things aren't that simple, and reconciliation doesn't work with such broken laws. The reconciliation is done in the spirit, among the people, and there is something that needs to be done for it. Not a political commissioner with a command, but with what actions and today's action, of course, it can be such that these matters can also be demonstrated by some benevolence and by the benevolence of members of the National Assembly, who would once propose such nonsense as the asbestos law and the Veterans law, say no, we have enough of you. It's so bad in the world that I end up more calm. The bride, tomorrow's solar eclipse, the equinox winds, the terrible spring, the low pressure, the two Petty Officer's laws. What else do you want? It's an apocalypse. Vote against this law, or tomorrow the noon sun will go out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you. To avoid too many repetitions, I would like to point out only one point, but for my terms, a very important aspect in today's debate. For I agree with all those who claim that the novelties of the law are more important than they appear at first sight. In particular, it offers two options. For the first time, we are even more aware of the importance of the war on Slovenia, and for the second time, that at least a slight reduction is made in the eccentric discrimination which was subject to those who directly participated in the war, which said not to Yugoslavia and that of Slovenia alone. We all know that the war on Slovenia is not a controversial act, it is not a controversial period of our history, and it also has a plebiscite decision and support. There is no comparison here with the cloudy sides of history, which still awaits quite a lot of treatment by an independent historical profession. In short, in today's debate and in this case, it must be acknowledged that the issue of war for Slovenia is obviously still too margalised and the novel is a correction, some progress in this regard too. I don't think it's necessary to be afraid that expanding the circle of beneficiaries would pose a risk of reducing the importance of the role of war veterans. It is much more important that these are things that are substantively indisputable. Finally, I would also like to stress the constitutional category, this time the constitutional category of equality, which Slovenia should ultimately lead in solving this issue. Unfortunately, only one article of the Constitutional Charter was read today, and all those who read it, to remind me of another article of the Constitution, is Article 14 of the Constitution, which states that in Slovenia we are all equal before the law, that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, etc. I am pleased that the time is coming for discrimination to end and for the uniform criteria and criteria for everything to be applied, so today I will re- back up the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you. As I call on only the present Members, I have noticed that Mr Petek is also behind Jerovsk. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Minister Drobnic says the way in which funds are provided for the activities of associations of fighters will not change. No, no, no. The way will not change, change, lower the readings, significantly decrease, and it is already, the sum of these funds. The Minister also says that we cannot refer to the constitutional law on the implementation of the fundamental Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, since we later adopted the Constitution and arranged the status of the union of fighters on a new and different basis. May I ask Mr Drobnic also to tell the Minister of the Interior, who, on the basis of this consummated and dead constitutional law, wants to resolve the situation that has been erased in Slovenia. Or, it is not here today to wipe, to wipe from the memory of those who resisted the invader in World War II and did not put on the invader’s boots. Last but not least, what messages are we sending to a democratic Europe, that Europe that built on the principles of a victorious anti-fascist coalition after World War II, or that democratic Europe is treated similarly by its veterans from World War II and their associations? I'm sure you don't. Therefore, I absolutely cannot support this law, and I hope that those who support it will still think a little about this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you. We're going back to Friday again. Mr. Milan Friday, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u222	I don't know why they tried to let me go yesterday and today. I hope it is not intentional, but in any case I believe that Mr Miro Petek, who was previously invited, would not say what I am going to say. So, I feel it is my duty to apply to the word of this law, which apparently stirs spirits, again in some way creates conflicts. I do not intend to attract these conflicts myself, but I do believe that we do have the opportunity that the State Council has given us, to reconsider what we are making, what decisions and what solutions are in this law, which I think is unfair, which in my opinion is inadequately addressing and equalising the position of veteran organisations and therefore I am joining those who believe that the law should be rejected. I will base this on comparing my role at the time of independence, i.e. in this war for Slovenia, where I was an active participant myself, I am aware of the importance of this event, but I do not overestimate it in such a way as to attach Gloria to myself. Especially as opposed to the struggle that national liberation fighters fought between 1941 and 1945 were under very different conditions, under different circumstances, for long periods and so on. And I think we're making a mistake here when we underestimate this element or this fight. I myself have been in this self-serving war in a role that is not at all controversial, nothing in the field where perhaps someone has said that some have been "intruded" to this law. So I'm in such a position that this role of mine is not at issue, which is why I'll take some criticism if it's put on my tab. Some time ago, I was in place of Mr Grims, who is the chairman of the delegation of the Permanent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, in Gdansk, Poland. I'm sorry he wasn't there, I have to admit. So there he could see, instead of me firsthand, how the Poles can appreciate this period that we are trying to attribute to him today. As our delegation was accepted by the Poles, as all of us were, there were Englishmen, Sweden, Danes, Slovaks, Romanians and so on, led before the monument of the first battle in Poland in World War II, before the monument that specialises this fight of the Poles against the invader, against Nazism. And this period and these roles are simply in this way we do not know how to value. I'm trying to find the names or faces of people from the current coalition that appear at our events dedicated to these national liberation events. I know someone's gonna hit me, and that's why I'm gonna say it myself. That is where you send Mr Erjavac, which is in another context of political thinking. Others don't show up there, gentlemen. And since you do not appear there, you show in this way a lack of awareness of the role of national liberation struggle and in this way also indirectly the roles of those that we are dealing with today under this law, when we in fact delete from them the provision provided by the Constitution in Article 9, and leave it to the Minister to formulate and set criteria and criteria, so, in this way, I am sure that if you knew and participated in these celebrations, you would not vote on this law differently than we will do to vote against. So in our case, based on all that has been heard today, until this national liberation fight, we express some kind of humiliation, minimize it, try to devalue it, and this is best illustrated by the deletion of Article 9. In this Article, we leave the Minister's assessment of whether he will finance and how much he will finance. Unfortunately, in this mandate, we are talking about a minister who, on the most common question, does not know how to handle the nerves. How this minister, in his well-known, at least in my opinion, will, in my opinion, control or train his nerves, when he will have to decide the amount of resources that he will have to give to him by law, according to his opinion of an organization that does not deserve it. This concerns me that we have left behind a legal dictatorship which leaves behind the Minister's discretion to decide on the amount of funds that are conditional on these values, that this importance is meant, that this situation or that situation is kept in our minds and in the minds of those who will come after us from that very important period of Slovenian life. I join myself in what Mr Potræ said, obviously it is not a coincidence that today the Minister must sit among us for a long time when he has to listen to the obvious us opposition Members about the fact that he did not judge the asbestos law on humanity, how important it is today to make certain decisions because some lives are running out. That's where I understand that the Members of Parliament have united. There I understand that you have withdrawn from all winds your Member and that you will vote, as it seems, 47 in favour. But I don't understand that in this law you don't show, at least those, I think that here is DeSUS, so much understanding for something that you actually have to do by the logic of things, to support the rejection of this law, and I hope that this understanding will prevail with you, this scratching of this period. So that the reality that you must express in a way that we will, I am sure, in the opposition, do one thing: we will vote against the war veterans law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you. I didn't notice that you were appointed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You were not quoted and misunderstood. I'm afraid I can't give you a replica. Mr. Hwauc has the floor, please. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Mira, I called you wrong because I was only looking at your last name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u224	I was appointed by a colleague of Friday's, a associate, and I'd like to say that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u225	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u226	Of course he doesn't hold what he says. [[...]] I specifically laid a wreath two years ago at the Partisan cemetery in Austria. I also had an opportunity there to ask you to stop such discredits. I myself, as a journalist, was present in the fights for Slovenia alone, when some of the LDS colleagues were either local traitors or refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Mr Jerovšek, you were not appointed, please. Mr. Hwauc. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask my colleagues on the left and right, if you're so fair, and let me say these few sentences that I apologize for such a start. [[...]] If my colleagues were fair, I'd probably start a little different. I do not have any particular problems with trying to evaluate everything that those who resisted the invader in Slovenia have done good, useful, and have contributed to at least some of our history going this way or to this place where we are today. Of course, I agree that there were also problems, that there were some internal conflicts, but that went well, just how did it go? So that some groups are organized, armed, and left somewhere unrecognized on the outskirts. And that doesn't feel right to me, but then someone is just pinning medals for what we have today is good in Slovenia. Even what we have today is good in Slovenia, including what was bad, I think it is right that with some measure of tolerance, understanding, but we admit it and we are aware of it. However, I do not see in this law an attempt to fix some things a decade ago. But in order for those who fought for Slovenia in the early 1990s to also sacrifice their lives and expose their lives to recognize their respective status. And what this marriage brings is what I think it is. We all have to be or we have to be equal somewhere. I agree with the statements that the fighters who fought against Nazism in World War II have a special status against fascism in Europe. We had that status, too, and this marriage, I'm sure it doesn't. Of course, we must not forget that in Slovenia we also had a war, in the 1990s, in the early 1990s, and then there were other fighters, if you will, other veterans, who have simply not yet had a properly regulated status. It does not seem right to me that someone has debated that what is now spreading, some rights and some ratings, and I do not know what else is that the only armed forces that have further emerged were the guards who allegedly guarded these captured soldiers, the occupying, the Yugoslav armies. It just doesn't hold. Many, including civilians, have been actively involved in this self-sustaining war. Maybe sometimes without a weapon, too, because the weapon just wasn't there. I myself know a number of cases when people, including those who are recognised by the new status of veterans today or by this law without any thought of bravery, have firmly expressed their domestic feelings and have simply risked their lives for us, or for the fact that we are now in a single country and full members of the European Union. I also think that this law is not about trying to change history or not respecting history. If we had been critical enough to look at all our history and perhaps to push some ideological obstacles aside, today we would not have seen in this law, but those who express these doubts, only the negatives, but also the fact that they are trying to do something good with this law. Therefore, I am sure that if we adopt this law today, tomorrow the sun will not be extinguished, that it will continue to shine out, and that if not many years ago or too many of these suns would have been extinguished by then, it would probably have been easier to conclude the debate today and, of course, we would have decided to support this law. Of course, I will also support this law in re-voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Today we will consider, or now we will consider, the second time the veto that Minister Drobnič has received, I hope that he will join us, yes, and allow me, of course, to tell myself why I will support the veto of the State Council. I will begin with what Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday. Mr Prime Minister said that the Slovenian executive authority has only 15 years of history. I think that the Slovenian executive power has much more than 15 years of history. It has at least as much history as between 1945 and 1991, and has as much history as it did between 1918 and 1945. However, if I add to that part of the history of the executive power on the ground of Slovenia, it is much longer in history. That is why I said that the seat of the executive in Slovenia was in a place of more than 100 years, from about 1890. What is proposed by this law is nothing more than that after you've gained power, you want to re-write history. I would ask you what you would say to Slovenians, for example, to savers if, somewhere in 1994, because it was difficult to ensure in the State budget, someone recalled and said that it was impossible to fulfil the commitment from the basic Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and all those in the banks in the Republic of Slovenia had nutritional roles, this guarantee, which the Federation once had, would be taken over by the Republic of Slovenia. This is a matter of very simple respect for the legal foundations of the country. If anyone believes that this country with executive power is only fifteen years old, then I would like to remind him of one of the speakers, vice-presidents of the National Assembly in this Chamber, when he spoke about the foundations of his own country. And, gentlemen, someone was just doing something from 1941 to 1945 that we could be here today in this round hall. On 3 October 2004, no one, especially the electorate and the electorate, authorized this government or this minister to invent what the fundamental Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia says. I remember these discussions myself because I participated in them. I also remember things that, if I had signed up during the veteran liberation war, I was doing somewhere in Upper Šiška and so on. But, gentlemen, when we gained our independence and wrote certain acts, we were very well aware that history did not begin on 25th or 26th June 1991 or 3rd October 2004. The history of Slovenk and Slovenes, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, began much earlier. And that is whether we respect this history, whether we are capable or not. The State Council, as my colleague Gaber said, gave us an opportunity to get a retrial. I think it would be good if Members of the ruling coalition, before you press the keys today, made a possible short repeat of the history of the 1st or 2nd year of high school or just primary school. If you cannot do so, then at least be aware that the fundamental documents and laws that interfere with this should not be proposed or adopted in the way you are trying today. You know, if someone tried to do something similar to that in 1994 with the savers, there would be a lot of people in front of this hall. It was then about whether we would issue or not to issue a certain debt, take over, rehabilitate certain banks, because we respected the provisions of the Charter. As it was stated in the basic charter that the Federal State guarantee was taken over by the new State. And it was difficult, public finance was difficult, but it wasn't 72 million tolars or 100 million tolars, it was billions of then German brands, billions of Slovenian tolars, for a bad billion euros. Why? To tell all the savers in Slovenia that what is written in the Charter is not just a letter on paper. Today, of course, on this document all those who will re-vote in favour of the law, which is contrary to the basic charter, are in fact saying that the association of national liberation war fighters in Slovenia was a promise in the basic charter written with a fig in their pocket or that you think that you were given a mandate on 3 October 2004 to re-write the history of the Republic of Slovenia. This election term was not given to the ruling coalition. Just as Mr Prime Minister has not been given a mandate, at least not in this National Assembly, to move the government's seat after more than 100 years. After more than 100 years, seat, I can repeat, gentlemen, if you like, the executive authorities in the Republic of Slovenia are at the same location from 1890 until one last summer when someone decided to move. Perhaps Mr Tsukati is funny, but you know, so far, we're going to give another sample, in this National Assembly, we're going to ensure that they have a free passage through the Assembly premises, and now they're rewritten, as the journalists call the barracks rules. And if you think by re-voting today you're going to re-write history, it could be your ghost. It could be your imagination. The Council of State, by its decision on the veto, told the National Assembly, in accordance with the constitutional powers, to luckily have a state council, still to consider how, by means of a law amending and supplementing the laws on war veterans, we intervene in our own history into our own commitments, which are under 15 years of age. And if we can't do that, then of course this state council is giving this state council an untrustworthy one. Now I wouldn't judge what a minister or a minister is going to do when he decides whether or not he's going to fund an individual association or who he is or who he's not an authentic fighter. We already said that in 1991. And that's all this is about. Today we will decide on this; the vote will show how much someone really respects their past. Let it be the Prime Minister or Members of the ruling coalition when you vote on it today. I myself will support the veto of the State Council, and I regret that, of course, we will have to give my trust to Minister Petty Officer twice. I hope the Prime Minister is also aware of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u231	Since my laughter was misunderstood, allow me a replica, Mr. Squeakle. I didn't laugh at the government moving from 100 years of age to some jobs, but I laughed at the fun scenes. Mr. Yuri has the floor. There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you, President. I will be very brief, and with one personal note, I will invite you to vote against this law. A note that binds to a story that repeatedly repeats itself here in the hall, czech, during the independent war, I brought the army baskets of bread. Do you know that under this law I will be a veteran? A veteran of war for Slovenia because I negotiated with the military. And imagine that. Given that you have a lot of concerns about my conduct at the time, you should vote unanimously against this law and make it impossible for me to become a veteran. That's what I'm going to call you, and I'm going to vote against this law myself, because I know what I've been experiencing in those days, and I know what my father was experiencing as a partisan, and that's unmatched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u234	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that those of the LDS, who will continue to talk about how the Minister pushed away the microphone from the press, always keep an eye on what your party president did in this room when he physically confronted his fellow Member. So this should follow you every time you talk about it and then it'll probably be a little easier. Second. As for saying that by abolishing the law on the financing of fighters, we want to evaluate you gain NOB, so it seems to me that mixing is essentially apples and pears. Where, though, does it say that 61 years after World War II must still be all muck and all these snacks for free? It doesn't say anywhere that it has to be. Even in the state world, we should know this, but it's not just a task of associations of fighters to nurture the acquisitions of NOB. So nursing antifascist warnings or what it meant is anti-Nazi, and if you want, even anti-communist, it's the task of all of us. Today, this is no longer the task of an alliance of fighters or just a union of fighters. When I listened here to a performance by a fellow Member of Parliament, Gabra, who very emotionally explained how the national liberation struggle took place in Styria. Look, there's something in the books, and there's something not written in the books. Or a lot of what happened in this case is not in the books. And that's what they told us, let's say our parents are still alive. And I personally believe my mother more than anything that postwar history has written. Here I have before me a record of our former fellow Member Janez Zamp: My memory of August 6, 1942, where he described how birdfighters, like a six-year-old boy, shot his father in the front of a bedroom after dinner and left him all night beside his dead father. And then, after the war, they were still so highly respected brothers Resh of Ptuj and Consignor and so on. Even today, institutions are named after them. It is not appropriate that the Union of Fighters Associations should still be given as an organisation outside the context entirely differently financed than other organisations. Why is that? And those who say that this violates article 18 of the Constitution, because by taking over the basic constitutional charter, this is indeed not true. Legally, it doesn't hold. We have taken over this fundamental constitutional charter of individual rights of fighters. And no one interferes with these rights, no one interferes with this if it is today, 61 years after the end of World War II, the fighters who receive these rights, 38 thousand, and the archive historically says that at the end of the war there were 30,000. So, after 61 years, natural growth is 8,000. And I was myself, locally invited a few years ago, where they accepted into their kind of youth, growing up. So they got bigger. Since I had one specific comment on this because they were simultaneously talking about how they were independent and politically unengaged and I proved to them with arguments that this was not the case, they have not been inviting me into their circle since then. This is their right, but I do not think there is any real basis for this organisation to be financed on the basis of the number of its members. If we're going to do this, then we can see that there's a lot of these members. But it's not just money. If they want to work in what they have set themselves up, the real resurgence of this memory and so on can be done without the great resources they have received in the past. If we are talking about the need to reduce public spending in Slovenia, it is in fact necessary to reduce spending in all areas. I think the Union of Fighters in all this is not an untouchable organization. I'll support the marriage. I think it also regulates certain matters concerning war veterans that have not been settled in the past. I won't be sad if any of my fellow Members get the status of a war veteran. If he was trying to do so at the time and if he had been wronged by law, that status was not duly recognised to him, then of course it would be appropriate for him to have this case corrected in some way, and if he wished to obtain this status, he would be able to obtain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! Look, I have to say that I am very grateful to my opposition colleagues today because they are opening up themes in a way that may allow us to see all developments in this law with a slightly different perspective. But I must say that some things have been said in such an inappropriate way that they require an answer. The first thing I want to say is the case of Poland, which was discussed by one of the LDS colleagues. Putting this case next to Slovenia, there is no way. He who knows the Polish tragedy knows that it was the worst because of the confusion of Uncle Stalin, who was then the greatest friend of Mr. Joseph Broz, who was at the head of Yugoslavia, stopped his troops on the banks of Visla so that the Germans destroyed Warsaw, the ghetto, killed thousands and thousands of innocent people, entire families, and destroyed all those who fought with weapons for the freedom of their nation. Putting this aside in Slovenia, you know, is very careless. If you are pushing for an example of an event that is unfortunately tragically linked to Stalin in this work, then it must also be said that the story of Slovenia would certainly have ended differently if it had not started with the establishment of a choir whose main purpose was to come to the ugly imperialists in England, France and America, of course alongside the fraternal Nazi Germany and socialist Russia under Mr Stalin. Of course, they turned the record later because they changed the situation in the world after the attack on Russia. But in fact, there is a handful of stories that have also tragically marked Slovenia. And in Poland, which was given as an example, it is perfectly clear to draw the line during the struggle for freedom, during the struggle against the invader and during the revolution. Because the revolution was brought there by Russian tanks. Unfortunately, this line cannot be drawn so clearly in Slovenia, because the fratricidal war and the most tragic post-war crime have brought Slovenians themselves. Unfortunately, this is something we all have to face. That's our history. Why, then, is so provoked today and this topic opened by the opposition in this national assembly, when this law is not regulated in any way, there is no decision on who was on which side, who was collapsing, who was not, because we have heard so many words about it before. I think that the goal is to confuse the concept of NOB and the notion of revolution, to confuse the whole story again, and that perhaps someone would then launch a vehemently and warn that there is a monument to the revolution in the most visible place in the capital, not a monument to the NOB. And to find another wit then, I would suggest that there be another oven of the Trobac method, that if there is a monument to one crime, there should be a monument to all other crimes, that the criteria be the same. But that's not gonna get us anywhere. He's really not gonna get us anywhere, pal. You have read that history wants to be rewritten and that everything that was national or for the benefit of the Slovenian people, which was 15 years ago, is denied before the period of Slovenian spring and independence. If that were true, then today, about this law, it would not be among those who are just the same, in the same status as everyone else, including the union of fighters, but would be eliminated and not be able to compete. That would be denial, colleagues, history. And against this, believe me, I would stand just like you, but no one has done it and no one has proposed it, and so stop blurring the story and stop turning your words and playing at the feelings of the cultural struggle that we have, believe me, everyone in Slovenia has already sat down to the top of your throat. The law before us does not govern anything other than the principle that we are all the same before the law that it is for me, and I say this honestly, is equal to the one that, if you want, as my grandfather did, as Maistrov's fighter once fought for the northern border in Slovenia and is equal to the one who sincerely went to fight against all the invaders, and that all the attackers in Slovenia should have hooky crosses or that ridiculous butary with an axe on their head or a red star, as they had in 1991, are all in my eyes equal. And we all owe something to it. And let us express this by also writing it into the law, for this is the content of this law that is before us. There's nothing else here. Look, you were also talking about the device. But if we look at reconciliation in the positive sense of the word, what is more consonant than being able to go through everything that was and to say we are all the same, we are all in the same position. And that, my fellows, is the content of this law. The content of this law is that no one is in a privileged position. And your words, I'm going to help myself with the literature case, and in some parts, they were quite similar to your discussions about that famous Orwell animal farm, because all the animals are the same, but only one of them is the same as the other. You know, that's not how it works. We are in Europe today, and I propose that we act in a European way. And when you take the example of a country, be realistic, for then you must take such a country that has reached democracy, to freedom, to your own statehood in the final resistance. And this law of what happened in the end does not give anything over what happened before. But it puts everything on the same level. And I also think it's only right, and it's the only ethical thing, and it's the only thing that's fair. And to fellow Members, the law should be based on the word of righteousness, it should come from the word of righteousness. And that's why it's a fair and legal act to press the button today. Let's do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u238	Thank you very much. After this last lesson, it is difficult to speak only about this veto, and it seems to me that it is also in the veto box, as the State Council has argued, enough to ask ourselves whether, without bad conscience, we can reaffirm such a law. One of the key questions that the Council of State has raised is whether we are in any way interfering with the basic constitutional charter and in the implementation of this law, we have not heard convincing answers. The fact that someone's referring to the steppe's wrinkled uncles doesn't say much, because his warmate's been in a fight with him since 1948. So if Mr Grims and Stalin are accounting in these rooms today, he is at least 60 years late. So from this point of view, I don't think we're going to get very far. There is no dispute over the fact that in the preamble to the Constitution we also wrote that the Republic of Slovenia is the fruit of centuries of national struggles for independence, which we understood very differently at the time. Certainly from Trubar, who then went to the church very much in the nose, to Slomšek, who went to someone else's nose, to the national awakening in the 19th century, to the indisputable Master's fighters, the TIGR, which someone as a miracle discovered again a few years ago, the partisans and then rightly added to all those who tried to do so in the 1990s. What worries me is what my colleague and classmate Miro Petek said was that there were traitors and fugitives in LDS back then. Even if he specifically meant someone, it is not fair to stigmatise political belief, and it is not fair to all those LDS people who have been mobilized, called upon to do things in various services for the benefit of Slovenia. So this debate calls for asking whether every time for every force really needs its winners and its losers. Or we cannot live by the fact that political accounts are primarily settled at elections and historically at institutes. When things get mixed up, there are great problems, and it is therefore perfectly understandable that we also need to identify things that some may not have thought when doing things with this law. This law and these provisions must certainly be read in the context of the moves taken by the Government and in the context of the explanations given by key officials in this area. The government has definitely eliminated some, let's say, committed to the beginning of the injustice of associations of fighters, from the Europeanist movements, as we have heard today, justice and so on. I must say that, in all these years since 1990, this has not been the subject of an accident in the harmonisation of our legislation. If this were non-European, against their principles, believe that we should correct as we corrected the famous article of the Constitution that the land should not be sold to foreigners; it was not. It is said that someone has constructed this argument now because he is ashamed to say something else - to continue in fact the civil war with other means. With this, of course, I don't mean what it refers to in 1941-1945, but what actually constituted discussions in this room when Professor Bučar, then president of the Assembly, said that civil war was over. The late Smol would say, "a little bit of morgen, the next day it started." And today it takes time, and we face the fact that we must continue to identify ourselves with these things. What surprises me is that all corners of the coalition are looking for consensus for a group of laws to solve the problems of working people in wartime, for victims of war violence, for inscriptions, and so on. Writing letters, hugging, passionately erasing differences, and, on the other hand, vehemently humiliating people who think that they have given part of their lives and part of their youth to what is in the textbooks and otherwise are understood by the world as a question of freedom, both personal and national. It is true that this is not exactly the case, but it is true - and here I am going back to the state world and their argument - that we first intervene in Article 18. Minister Petty Officer says it's about individual rights. If this goes on, the question is whether these individual rights are also safe in the next steps before the equation with all those who lived and worked in this room at the time. Of course, these rights came from some status they had as members of these military groups that fought against the invader; there can be no dispute about this. That's how they got them, that's how they retired, and that's how they inherited themselves in one part. These rights are personal in one part, but in some part we can also understand them as collective, as the right of the organisation. And this is now being erased, and this is a part of the political spectrum that is problematic and it is wrong and we object. Of course, we understand that most of you have the right to judge everything. If anyone thinks of it and benefits from it, he will surely also confirm a church doctrine that has long been unfulfilled. Let's say the ground is flat, and maybe some thing doesn't spin the way it spins. These truths, too, were subject to judgment of power, not of argument. I may take back the comparisons that are too severe and radical, maybe you won't do it exactly, but I'll remind you when we talk about some school programs and whether Darwinism is still suitable for decent treatment in school dishes. Then I will remind you of this power you have to use in your own way. And the point is, with the power you have, you can vote on history. This is bullshit. She'll get revenge on everyone, not just you. We need to talk about this, convince you that this makes no special sense, that they are rights and individual and collective, that you do not insult people, that you do not change history. You're saying we're fighting a cultural fight, even if we're talking in peace, you're not answering us. You don't look back on legal arguments. You've had enough. You're organized properly, you're marked with paints, and I don't doubt that's gonna work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u239	Thank you. He wants a representative of the state council, Mr. Pickles, a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It was said that the initiative was to initiate this law or to amend the law by a war veterans' union for Slovenia. True, the initiative was given in May 2004 and here I have a law, a proposal for a law dated 10.9.2004. Eight categories were added to this law at the time, and now there are 13. There was no talk in that law about the termination of the law on the financing of the union of national liberation fighters. Nor was there any talk of fighters in the then bill. Perhaps also because of this rapid procedure to get something through the back door quickly into the procedure, into the marriage and then to be quickly adopted. The inadequacy and concerns about the excessive enlargement of the beneficiary circle or the concern that some are still not in this circle would suggest that this is the result of this rapid process and the non-inclusion of the general public, and that the public would be affected by the debate on this law or these amendments. Once again, I would like to point out that the Council of State emphasises or warns, as well as the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, the violation of the constitutional law. When I was talking about not going to equalize all veteran organizations and not even war veterans, I didn't want to do sectarianism with it. I'm just going to say one example of why I think so, and I'm just going to stay in the family circle, so there's no replica. I can't compare my 23 days in the war for Slovenia. I myself have a recognized status as a veteran of war, I will say, in the then unity of the Slovenians, as never before, with my father, who was forcibly mobilized into the German army and then from 1943 onwards, fighting the national liberation struggle to liberate Slovenia from Nazism and fascism, as well as I cannot compare myself with my mother, who participated in the national liberation struggle, and in 1943 the Belogardists took her to Ravensbrüeck. And I could talk to you. Nor is it possible, as has been heard many times today, to equate national liberation fighters with Communists and national liberation fighters with acts that were not appropriate. I must also say that it was not and that it is not the same in all of Slovenia. I come from Koroška. There they were in 1941, 1945 the Germans, partisans, and perhaps another traitor, which of course does not apply to any other area. It's not like that today either. I've heard today about how we somehow distinguish a veteran organization. In Dravograd, where I am at home, the union of veterans of the war for Slovenia and the associations of fighters share a joint office. Therefore, such discussions are not, as they were, good for the whole of Slovenia. As the debate on the State Council has shown, it has also been completely different in Primorska. Therefore, we believe that it is inappropriate and truly symbolic after 61 years of liberation from Nazism and fascism and 15 years after the independence of 24 thousand fighters, with an average age of 81 years, to treat so disrespectfully and unworthyly and also their organisation. All this time, there was no need for evaluation or discontinuation. And maybe to the end. Today's debate has shown that there is a need for a law amending the law on war veterans not only my decision but also my new treatment, and for changes that will make the law even better and that it will not determine which do not belong to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Kraut. All the reported debaters who wanted to do so and were present received the floor. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'll read it. Jerovšek, Kovacič, Terčon, Anderlich, Squeakl, Hvauc, Grims, Sok, Horvat, Potch, Kokalj, Ziherl. Did I let anyone go? Horvat or Croat? Play for Hwauca. May, Conticy. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Please calculate. Mr. Jerovšek, you have three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u242	Thank you very much. First of all, I must protest the insult afforded by Mr Petek of the Liberal Democracy, who mentioned that we do not appear to politicians from these parties and from this party at the celebrations and marks of the partisan struggle. Because I have repeatedly laid my own wreath on behalf of my Slovenian Democratic Party in the final battlefield of the Pohorske Battalion, and I am always at a sad academy and in speeches on the day of statehood, if I have a speech, I do not forget to mention in a symbolic way the Pohorski Partisan and the farmer Shareh. I must say that this is an insult that my mother has afforded to my fallen relatives of the partisans, to the hundreds of partisans who went over our farm house and served them, and I must also say that it is because of this that I warn all those who you have, especially from Styria, about authentic heirs and partisans and fighters, that some of their ancestors have also searched through the history of their ancestors, how they behaved at that time on April 11th, when my father was imprisoned in the mill barracks. Some of them then marched under Hitler's flags and shouted "hail Hitler". And make sure they're careful. Actually, the loud ones are today when they're talking about, I don't know, the crime of this law. I stand for equality, as I said, and I will stand by. And, of course, I must say from this place that I do not think that Mr Stannik has a real right to talk about when he consciously insulted tigers with terrorists last year and then even more strangely argued that he was informed by the coastal partisans. That's because since he was chief of staff at Cardell's, he knew he was writing decrees on how to despise tigers. And look, I have to say that some of you are actually indoctrinated and don't fight for the honest feelings of the partisans, fight them. If Mr. Bevk says, "In the '70s, the first records were made by tigers." Yeah, isn't it freakishly late, or is it a monster thing, or did they get hurt by a monster's guilt? And on behalf of such equality, you stand for something that should remain. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u243	Mr. Jerovšek, time. Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich. Mr. Friday, there's no replica because there's no time for replicas. Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Today we have listened to a number of historical tracts, we have heard quite a few consonants of past events and traditions. I do not intend to do this myself, because I am sure that no debate, even if it is a parliamentary, historical fact, can alter the historical facts of the masquerade or the transformation into partisans at many of the religious celebrations that we have witnessed many times and which are well organised by one of the veteran organisations. I don't mind that, but I don't think we can change historical facts that way. The essence of the law we are re-deciding is that it establishes the equality and equivalence of all veteran organisations. And the essence of this law is also to abolish privileges, to eliminate discrimination that has existed so far. And that's why I think the law is good and it's worth supporting again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. President. I want things to be called real names anyway. It's a classic renegade law. After the ruling coalition together, I see that they are also talking to the Social Democrats, even we would like to have a national consensus to close some of the pages of history, at the same time driving literal lustration towards those who cherish the traditions of liberators of Slovenia. Now we're going to run out of legal grounds to fund an organization for the union of fighters. I'm asking you how this is going to work. He reduced Minister Petty Officer's funds by 72 million, so he broke the law. The budget was in place. And he broke the law to reduce his funds. Now there will be no legal basis, I don't even know how it'll work. It's a pure lustration of my own. Look, this is all happening because some of the parties in the current ruling coalition have forgotten they're partying. I personally appreciate those parties who haven't forgotten what they were. Because I fear that these parties, who have forgotten that they are parties and today declare themselves democrats, will one day forget that they are Democrats, that they are Democrats and that they will become parties again. And it's a classic faction battle. It's a fight with yourself. And what you do is you make lists in your clients and you'll see who's who. I'm not talking to anyone. However, the message value is important. I agree that there have been mistakes on all sides, there have been people who have the right to their personal integrity and that some have suffered innocently. For history, it will be important who defended this land, who resisted the invader, and who dressed in his clothes, and who kneeled before him. It's important for history if a stranger comes to your yard to stand up to him and defend yours and not kneel before him. That'll be the message. Remember that, no matter what your moment is, and you're doing what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u248	I did not believe that today we would be discussing again some of the issues that I thought we would be there in other laws that obviously live again and co-ordinate between the parliamentary groups. But I didn’t mean that you wouldn’t be able to do so much historical memory and you wouldn’t go to look, it’s been exactly 16 years now, since the 7th of March 1990, when the local congregation in which Demos had the majority, but it also had smart, reasonable people, and along with all of us who were sitting in that congregation at the time, adopted that congregation’s law, which specifically spoke, was called the Law on the Financing of the Union of Fighters. And why was he accepted? Due to the exceptional importance of the program and the activities of the union of fighters. This law was later published in the Official Journal on 25 June 1991, the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Charter, and so on, so that I will not repeat it, and it insured it in its entirety. After 16 years, we're dealing with sectarianism. We are dealing with the fact that you are talking about the need to eliminate injustices because it is unfair for an organization to have privileged status. All your predecessors, I don't remember anyone being politically active at the time, your predecessors have managed so much tolerance, the sense that we did it together. We were united, and today things are happening again. And pointing your finger at the other side, how to deepen, dig up on some historical merit, and so on. Read your laws, read your constitutional charter! And please again, I don't mind and I support everything that's in the Veterans Act to correct what wasn't regulated in that first law. There's no problem at this level. And I don't have any problem with all the other veteran organisations being financed just like they should be financed. But to make others better financed, to end it is, to put it mildly, hypocritical. And to Mr. Mir Petk, I would say very politely, please come up with a word on the day who, by name and surname, was a LDS traitor and a fugitive, I don't know, in Austria or where he thought he must have met someone on that side - with his name and surname, not just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to read you an e-mail that I just got, but it's for someone else in this room, namely Mr Grims; I got it for you. The e-mail reads: "As a member of the SDS, I protest your statement that people with hooky crosses, funny butaries and ax and those with stars on the cap were the same. That's just not true. You're not going to say that the partisans at Plečnik Stadium swore an oath to Hitler! Not him. [[...]] [[three of spades]] Oh, my God! What's too much is too much. My father was a partisan, but a Christian. Because of such madness, the SDS loses and will lose because people see the direction you're leading us. Shame on you!" I answered him myself, "Thank you for your message below. There is nothing I can do to avoid presenting it to the Slovenian public in further discussion." But I believe that the nation, a party that spits on its own past, is not worth the future and is not worthy of leading Slovenia. I am very sorry that Mr Grims, Mr Petty Officer and some others are completely confusing things. I hope Mr Grimes read this e-mail.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The fact is that today we are considering a law that equates, among other things, veteran wars for Slovenia with national liberation fighters. Today we have talked about all possible truths and half-truths, and the fact is, in my opinion, that without the NOB and even without the war for Slovenia, we would not be here today, and they were both equal to me. Dishonestly from the opposition, it seems to me that the fighting of national liberation wars is being cut short by rights and resources. It's just not true - they're equal rights. It also bothers me that some members of the opposition, even members of the veteran organisations of the war on Slovenia, in some ways, at least for me, have been demeaningly talking about the 1991 war on Slovenia. The fact is that some of us fought for Slovenia during the war. I'll tell you the case in Trzin when my very good friend died when a colleague in the same department went blind. And to say that the war for Slovenia was just something like that, it's just not true. It's not fair to talk about 20 days. It's just not fair. And I would just like to draw attention to the content of the law which speaks, to the concrete and correct explanation that it is only the implementation of uniform criteria and criteria for the allocation of budgetary resources to veteran societies and associations, since there is no basis for its different treatment in this respect from its transformation into a society and the granting of the status of society acting in the public interest. And that's enough for me. I understand it this way, as I've explained now. I think, once again, I would like to say that without the NOB and without the war for Slovenia, we would not be here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. I must say, it is very difficult to take part in a debate in which you get a bunch of insults, readings or readings on the ground that you have no arguments. The answer to the arguments I have presented, my friend. Now there's only two things. First colleague to talk about an e-mail earlier. I'm gonna ask him to forvard it for me, or I'm gonna have to assume he wrote it himself or invented it. The second thing is, I'm happy to explain it to the public. Look, they dismembered Slovenia in their southern part of Italy. At that time, the fascists had that butara and that ax inside, and in the north there were Nazis, who had the sign of a hooky cross. Both were aggressors and invaders of Slovenia. In 1991, after this same Slovenia, tanks JLA and JLA were playing, and I shot one of them myself if you want to know, and "fail" clearly. But what's essential, colleagues, and it's going to work on you right now as a shock, you were wearing a red star to your colleagues. They had a red star, the invaders had a sign, you know, a red star. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Do I draw it to you that it will be understandable what was the symbol of the invaders who wanted to crush the newly formed Slovenian country, who dropped a tape bomb on innocent people in Klanc, Dolenjska, and killed 39 people who did not have anything in common with this war on Slovenia, except that they were stuck in a column. [[...]] These were people who committed crimes under the mark of a red star. Let me tell you again, because you know that the right honest man is enough to tell you once, so let me tell you twice. The invaders who wanted to destroy the newly formed Slovenian state had a sign on the tanks, on the hats, on the planes, a red star, a colleague. I hope I've made myself clear why all these three symbols in this part are equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I'd like to go back to what a member of the State Council has told us about the end, Mr. Kraut. I must correct you, Sir. I listened to this debate, but I didn't hear in a single sentence that any national liberation fighters would be equal to Communists. No one did this, but you said it here. But it is true that the Communists used the national liberation fight for the revolution. That is also what the president of the fighting organisation, Mr Stanovnik, is talking about today, and that is what we all recognize today. That's a fact. And, of course, no one will change history. But it is true that historians are complementing it today. Not to mention, those who may be on the right and have been given the opportunity to tell their visions of history, let me mention Alexander Bite and his book, the Bermuda Process. I've read very carefully what he's writing there. It's one personal job, and I don't know if they read it here from SD laughing. There was no major publication in the Republic of Slovenia. And I would also like to say, earlier, Mr Školč had a very cynical response to some of the things that Darwin's theories, Darwinism, no one will change. He's who he is. Now it's just a question, those who believe you came from monkeys, you can believe it because of me, but also let others believe that we can believe in something else. My colleague, School, he used to say that we're going to change Darwinism. It's called Darwin's theory. Allow me to answer him that no one will change that, but that we have the right to imagine it in our own way. And as for this law, which has been said in many other ways today, I myself understand that it is a matter of equalizing the functioning of a particular organization and it has nothing to do with the 18th Article of the Constitution to which some of you call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Second World War and the Slovenian Independent War of 1991 are certainly inextricably recorded in Slovenian history, the history of the Slovenian people. In both wars, Slovenian patriotism, the love of the nation, the love of their own country were reflected in a special way every time. And that is why, I believe, true patriots have to pay the same attention and gratitude. The law establishes uniform criteria and criteria for the allocation of budgetary resources to veteran societies and associations. The law under consideration does not stop the financing of certain activities of associations of national liberation fighters of Slovenia. This needs to be said to the public in public and in public. Although more than 60 years have passed since World War II, more than 38,000 recipients have received rights that are not touched by this law, although historical sources report that at the end of the war there were fewer than 30,000. I don't think even fighters agree with that 27% inflation. If this inflation is accepted by Slovenian taxpayers, then I support the veto on this law. And if Slovenian taxpayers agree that we have about 290 recipients in Slovenia from the fight of World War II, recipients of ultra-high amounts, in net value of 700,000 tolars, that is, poor 3,000 euros, if Slovenian taxpayers agree, then today I will be against this law. But since I'm getting more and more support from the field for the law, I have to and I want to vote for the law again on my own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! No one will convince me that the government was unaware of what it was doing with that law. In addition, she was in the debate in the National Assembly before you accepted him as a member of the government coalition and was also warned about this in the State Council. You are well aware that with your so-called equal criteria, with your so-called abolished privileges and your anti-discrimination, you are causing the NOB association to cease to be financed within a few years. Don't you know how to calculate that? You've been told by a representative of the state council, people are now on average over 80 years old. You have invented that justice must be the only fundamental criterion for financing by person, but not by meaning, not by activity, not by the number of monuments, nor by the number of battles that are worthy of being remembered to give value to national liberation fights in Slovenia as also an extradition to future generations. Don't tell me you don't know that, and don't tell me you can't do that. No smart government, no smart minister of this would have the principles, because he would well know that he would shudder at the old wounds that exist among people, in a different view of history, in the ability to understand certain things, even transcend some things, and that he would once again cause controversy. You knew that, and you wanted it because you have a majority, unfortunately through discipline, which is guaranteed that you will, I'm afraid, really adopt such a law. What are you going to do? You will cause people, women, men, to be more sensitive, less sensitive to their last years of life, to think every day about what the new state and your new authority give them. That's what they do. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what they do. I've been in personal contact with them many times. They're just thinking about whether 20 or 30 million dollars worth of money saved for what you've done. You've made a big mistake. You have time to correct it, if possible, so that once people can understand that this country is also theirs, not to do everything that this country would not be theirs and to feel somehow neglected.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u262	More than once, it has been said that the law itself governs only two things: the status of a war veteran and the financing of societies in which these war veterans are united or linked in one way or another. That is why I feel that the debate has gone far beyond what this law governs. Unfortunately, I find that, in fact, a law that regulates in some way on a symbolic level the love of an individual towards his country, if we say so, is stopped at the end of funding. After all, love goes through the stomach, but somewhere there's one limit. I would have expected that those who think they deserve the status of a war veteran after 61 years would no longer have the need to finance them from the state budget. That would be my logic. That would be perfectly normal for me. I think 50 years should be enough. If someone got the status because they fought for this country, those who sacrificed the most they had are not here, they've lost their lives. Therefore, I find it very sad that without money, it is simply not possible to sell this story at home. And something stinks in here. Something stinks to me. Something's not right here. Much clearer are the starting points for granting status, in my opinion, for a self-conquering war. As far as I'm concerned. However, we are obviously still too close to these events to assess objectively whether the status has been properly assigned or not. It is interesting, however, how many people should be entitled to this status and also how high average age according to the average age, I will say, life assessment in Slovenia, we know that it is. There is absolutely no way that I can accept the arguments here, especially the opposition, that someone is being wronged. If someone is wronged, it is wrong for those who have been lucky to have survived, who have also done something by being right for 50 years and working for that country, even though they have been wronged in one way or another. And I myself find that this is actually the abuse of this law again for a political discourse that has nothing to do with the content of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u264	Thank you. First, some additions to the discussions that have taken place. I was certainly hurt by my colleague's opinion that we were not participating in the event, the celebration and so on. I myself attended the recent concert of several singing choirs singing songs from the NOB era, then laying wreaths at the hostage monument, laying a wreath in four partisans who died in a burning printery. So much for that. It was said that Russian soldiers were not in Slovenia. The Russian army certainly went across Slovenia. This, if not the other one, proves the monument in Murski Sobota. Now it's the main theme I've come up with once again. With the law we give again weight to the fighters for the independence of Slovenia, who have often been defiantly presented. All of us may still remember the article on martinis, how it was shown that they were martinid in a bear’s den, and we all know that it was quite hot there, and that innocent victims also fell. There's a war in that harshest sense that has shown the most violent face and there's certainly no talk about the martinis there, and I think that this law will make things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, fellow Members and you who are listening to us today! The old Latin river says " [[...]] [[Latin.]] """""" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" [[...]] There are more costs for the monument, and it will last if we earn it in life or work. And today, at this hour and at this meeting, the National Assembly is also preparing for itself a monument that will record whether the Slovenians respected each other or for many years after World War II we were opposed as the worst and most bitten enemies. That's how I feel. In this case, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's not about sharing money, only a blind man would believe it, but it's about status. It is about what we will stick to those who have put themselves on the right side of the national liberation fight and without whom, in my deep belief, the borders would be completely different, at least as far as Primorska is concerned, without whom I would not personally sit down to this national assembly now and to whom we must be more and more grateful that they have done so. But, dear colleagues, have we proved this today? No, no, no. I've heard a lot of words that have humiliated these people who risked their lives then to live in a better time, and we need to know that this is not about young and experienced people. None of these are between us anymore. We're some veterans of the war on Slovenia, but the NOB fighters aren't. These are now old people, on average 80 years old, and that we, after 15 years of having our country here, are not worthy of being a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, who should be proud of what our grandfathers or our fathers have done if he has any courage in him. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of trying to bring the wars for Slovenia closer to the status of national liberation fighters, we try to keep them living with minimal means - I know what it is - and instead of trying to bring these fighters closer, we are now trying to devalue the fighters, despite different constitutional arrangements, and to tie them to some judgment that you will see in all the newspapers tomorrow, and it seems to me that the adoption of a law humiliating to the fighters is not worth the actions of a member of the national assembly and not a citizen and citizen of Slovenia. I think it was nice and fair if we're all in favour of rejecting this marriage and accepting someone we're all proud of.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u268	Thank you very much. How respectable colleagues and colleagues expect signatures under other war laws, how can I believe that by adopting these laws you mean honestly why to delete a law on the financing of fighters that does not speak of the level of funds. In this case, it's not about the money. It's about deleting all the laws that mention NOB fighters from the legal system. You took the money anyway last year, and we can't stop you from taking it this year and taking it away next year. To talk about equality of funding, because that sounds good. It sounds good to me that now all veterans will be equal. On the one hand, however, you grant the wide-ranging status of veteran war for Slovenia; on the other hand, you expect nature to do its job and that, by the logic of natural laws, fighters will have to die out sooner and that, of course, this means the cessation of funding of a fighting organisation because you want to tie it to a status, it is the status of a member, not of a society. And when I heard here after 50 years there were no more fighters, there should be no more, as it will continue with the pension, you'll say, after certain years there is no more pension. This is just a step forward in your thinking. And for four years, the government had a mandate, which lasted just as long as the NOB in Slovenia. And in these four years, of course, you will strive to keep nothing from this NOB. Looks like this is your path you've been searching for. How can you say to a group that uses or wears partisan uniforms at events, and these uniforms are English, they're Russian, they're American, they're allied and partisan, that it's a masquerade? The masquerade is only if you're there, and then it's a masquerade, but otherwise it's a uniform that's worthy of respect and respect today. Whatever he wants, he's got to have any markings he wants. I tell you, Mr Dimitrij Kovačič, you have said that these are masquerades you have nothing against. It doesn't matter who wears uniforms that symbolize them for a while. It's not a masquerade. It's a masquerade. If you're at this event, I've already told you. The adoption of this law is a disgrace to this house, it is a disgrace to this national assembly. Under the illusion that you are equalising rights, you want only one thing, you want to revalue history, but respected ladies and gentlemen, you will not succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u269	Thank you. This concludes the debate, as the list of discussers has been completed, and I say that we will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 21.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly session, which will be resumed at 9:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I understand that the voting devices are working. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Janša's question on the Government's strategy in the process of privatisation and withdrawal from the economy and related national interests. Mr. Run, please. Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The content of the parliamentary question, as read, clearly shows that it would be right for this national assembly to be familiar with the government's strategy and activities in the area of economic withdrawal and to say how the government will protect national interests in this regard. I am sure, or in Social Democracy, we are convinced that what the government is doing now is not primarily about withdrawing, but about winning the economy in such a way as to place its own mainly political, but not professionally qualified staff in the supervisory worlds, and not by professional, but by political criteria, replacing administrations. It would probably be right to take note of this issue after a year and four months of rule, to identify the actual intentions of the government and to speak critically about this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u272	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain in the name of the Member of Parliament? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. Of course, on the question asked by my colleague, what is the country's withdrawal from the economy: whether the withdrawal from the economy is at the expense of foreigners or is the withdrawal of the country from the economy at the expense of individual individuals. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party, we claim that no privatisation, no project of transformation of a company, whether it be New Ljubljana Bank or any other bank in which all of us, every citizen and citizen, have invested on the basis of past or past work, should be transformed into such a way as we have witnessed in the transformation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor or on projections. That is why we support the debate by our colleague Potræ on this type of transformation. The fact is that the Coalition Treaty speaks of the entry of foreign capital into and from a perspective of Slovenia, or from such information, that this National Assembly, as the sovereign branch of government, knows and decides who, under what conditions or under better conditions than those of Slovenian economic operators, will enter our premises. That is why, of course, we will support the proposal for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Please note that the stage of explanation of vote is not debate or controversy. So I don't repeat these warnings, I'll just say it in the beginning. Mr. Squeakl, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u275	On behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support Ambassador Potrč's proposal to discuss the inadequate response of the Prime Minister to his question. There are many reasons for this, but since we are the legislative branch of power, allow me to focus only on legislative reasons. Mr Prime Minister and Mr Bajuk explain that they are negotiating with potential buyers; these are statements in the media. And I'd like to tell this national council that if you don't support the proposal today, then what they're doing is they're doing it illegally. The Law on Public Finances makes it very clear that for any process of selling state property, it is necessary to specify the content, programme, procedures, for each year, before the first step in the so-called procedures begins. Mr Bayuk and Mr Prime Minister say we are negotiating. I would like to remind you that, in this national assembly, we have already amended the decree four times in this mandate for various years when we decided that we would sell a more or less old lagoon in a government office or a cabinet, in the 2006 government and real estate sales decree on this, on privatisation, on further steps, on negotiations, there is not a single word. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Prime Minister, Dr. Bajuk, all of this is illegal. It is therefore now possible to lay the groundwork for this to be discussed at the next meeting of the National Assembly, to give appropriate guidance to the Executive on the basis of this debate, to draw up appropriate acts in accordance with the Public Finance Act and then to carry out further procedures. Everything else is under the table. Some ministers, ministers for development, have already left this government for this reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u276	Thank you. Since there is no more desire to explain our vote, we are moving to a vote. We are voting on the proposal. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Saš Pečet's question on the concrete consequences of the projected extension of tax obligations to the social situation and the standard of living of citizens and citizens. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u277	Your Honors are here! The fact is that the Secretary of State, within the Ministry of Finance, has announced the introduction of a property tax and the introduction of a tax on motor vehicles. It is also a fact that yesterday the Prime Minister denied the imposition of a property tax. So we are in a situation where a part of the executive is publicly forecasting in various interviews, in press releases, evenly taxing real estates, a new higher and, above all, I stress, a new form of property taxation. That means every Slovenian will be taxed for cca. 120 thousand Slovenian tolars, which the Prime Minister did not deny, assuming a share of property and assuming the number of citizens who own such properties. According to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, on such proposals, i.e. on the introduction of new taxes in the field of, as it is said, property already charged with four taxes today, and on the new taxation of motor vehicles, which are now subject to three taxes, should be discussed by the National Assembly before the legislative procedure. If I raise two basic trends that concern the Slovenian National Party, the tax is unnecessary and the second question is whether a Slovenian citizen or a citizen can pay such a tax burden in return for the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to reduce its budgetary expenditure. The fact is, we all know that the country can reduce such expenditure. In view of the possibility of supporting the proposal of the Slovenian National Party today, the possibility of not adopting such tax changes is open at least in a given form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u278	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In particular, the Group of Social Democrats supports the proposal to discuss this issue, by stressing that when we talk about such a very comprehensive topic as taxation of citizens' and citizens' assets, which, as has been the case so far, are not at any stage in the consideration and adoption of legislation, or that whatever impact they may have on the content of the legislation that is being announced to us is a real problem, because in our country, in the last two years, we can say that almost no legislation that has significantly affected the standard of the population, which has had a significant impact on the situation of people who have also had a significant impact on the increase of poverty in our country, has not been addressed in the way that we have been accustomed to. The social partners, the people affected by individual proposals, are not questioned about opinions and opinions, and it is appropriate that we discuss this subject in depth in the National Assembly, so that we can say what we expect from the government and its President when we adopt such legislation as is forecast in the tax area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u280	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mag. Milana M. Szvikla on the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Here you are, Mr. Squeakl, on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u281	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. We propose to the National Assembly that you support the decision to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on Mr Janš's inadequate response. I asked him when and how he really intends, if he intends, to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Well, he didn't answer that question. He avoided answering the question when he would really change tax legislation. Will the former Minister for Development, as he spoke a month ago, abolish taxes on wages paid in 2006? When will the first measure of the economic reform framework reduce public spending by 120 billion? Of course, Mr Janša simply does not want to do this because the philosophy of governance is different. The philosophy of Mr Janša's rule is the political management of public servants, the subjugation of businesses and the subjugation of businesses in order to make media more manageable. In the pursuit of absolute authority, representatives of ruling parties in Slovenian companies have replaced virtually all successful directors and therefore the Slovenian stock exchange index has fallen by 7.4%, that is to say collateral damage. I think it would be good for us to discuss this at the next meeting, especially since there has been a lot of talk in recent weeks about the partnership for development. With the resignation of the Minister of Development, development has already erupted. With today's debates and the reluctance to discuss the content of Slovenia's development strategy, I fear that there is no partnership either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Pece, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u283	Thank you. What is the development of the Republic of Slovenia, or how do we imagine the development of our country? The emphasis, of course, is on our country. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will not allow a debate on such a question, then I really do not know what else can convince you that you are Members who are elected directly and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is elected by us. Ladies Members, we have elected a government. The government is beneath us. We should determine what our country's vision is, how the Prime Minister should behave, how individual ministers should behave! What's been happening to us lately? In this mandate, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, whatever the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to us, this majority of the national assembly will confirm whether this is appropriate or not for citizens and citizens. And if anything is more important than the question of the further development of our country, then it is definitely the question raised in the context of the parliamentary initiatives and questions. According to my assessment and according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the answer of the Prime Minister to this question, if we can take it this way, is not satisfactory for the Minister in his resignation or the Minister who resigned. We have a responsibility because we have been elected to the elections for the further development of our country. It was only indirectly elected ministers and Prime Minister. He does not bear this responsibility to citizens and citizens as we do. Personally, I'd be happy if I didn't see smiles in your eyes right now. What do Slovenian nationalists think? Be aware that we have been elected, it is our duty to take this country forward. And what would be the harm of a one-hour debate or an hour and a half of a debate on the future of our country? Therefore, personally, as I say, I cannot understand either a Member or a Member who will oppose such a proposal, a proposal that we will be able to discuss. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may also learn something from or from various perspectives coming from a number of political parties represented in this National Assembly. Within the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal before us today. We support communication, we believe in different ways, but we do not seek to always listen only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Han, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We will, of course, support the proposal of Mr Brickle in the Social Democrats' Group of Members. This is a topic as important as the development of Slovenia, so it seems to us [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr. President!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u286	Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u287	Great. I'll start again, maybe not everyone listened. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal of Mr. Squeak to talk [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u288	Please! Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u289	we understand each other because we need to talk about the development of Slovenia. [[...]] You all have a mouthful of how good Slovenia is, how best it should be, but in politics it is not only a system of governance and observation, in politics, as I know, that we need to negotiate and talk. And there are too many questions and ambiguities that go primarily in this direction that people do not. That is why we are once again convinced, as the predecessors have said before me, that an hour or two or three will not harm us if citizens and citizens see at the end where this government is taking us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u290	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 86 Members present and 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Boštjan Zagorec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of Mr Dimitri Rupl to the question of Mr Zagorec on the removal of bilingual inscriptions in Austria. Here you are, Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that there are more and more of you, which is probably the result of the vote. At my 14th regular meeting, I raised an oral question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the inadequate reaction of the Slovenian Government to Haider's provocations and challenges, and in particular the insulting attitude towards the Slovenians in the Austrian Koroška. Minister Rupel only answered my question at the meeting we have before us. For a long time, waiting for an answer is already one of the indicators of a carefree foreign minister's attitude towards the issue of the Slovaks. Last but not least, the Minister has allowed himself even the possibility that Slovenian is an equal language within the European Union. I am interested in the fact that participants in seminars or other professional meetings organised within the framework of the institution of the European Union still have to listen to interpretation only in English, German or French if we are saying that the Slovenian language is equal. Last but not least, it's not just the bilingual boards. The problem is also in Maribor, for example, when we know that Mr Haider financed the redemption and renovation of one of the prestigious buildings in which the German society of speaking women works. In this company there is also a language bureau which has its operating conditions written in German. This is also an intervention of Austrian politics in Slovenia. And not least, Mr Rupel spoke a lot about Slovenian Austrian friendship. Of course, from his point of view, we Slovenians are very big friends with Austria. Above all, he is a friend of the concerned persons in Austria. But we do know that these persons will not be given the mandate of an active policy unless Mr Haider is elected in the upcoming elections. Therefore, I think it is good that this national assembly, which I believe is still a Slovenian national assembly and not an Austrian national assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, will support the debate that we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u293	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u294	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Firstly, Slovenia is a member of the European Union as well as Austria and we all have the same rights. If we're friends, friends go, even if they go to the inn, so that once you get one round, one another. Another time. Haider made a terrible mistake from Slovenia when he violated the constitutional decision of the Austrian State in the way that he moved the board three metres because the constitutional decision said, where the table stands, nothing should change. He moved three meters and he said, but here is not the area where the board stood, and I can change it. Third time. Unfortunately, the competent commission in charge of foreigners and Slovenians around the world recognises only two of the three Slovenian organisations in this National Assembly. I guarantee my word. It is therefore urgent, urgently necessary to discuss Slovenia's relationship with Austria and, above all, our relationship with the Slovenians, the Slovaks in Austria. Let this speech be made clear and loud about whether we have and recognise three Slovenian organisations, whether we have pride and whether we will demand as Europeans respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court of Austria, which is an equivalent member of Slovenia in the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u296	Thank you. Mr. Bevk. On behalf of the House of Representatives, perhaps? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the well-respected choir. The Social Democrats' Group will support the Slovenian National Party's proposal to hold a necessary debate on this response in the National Assembly. A year ago, in February 2005, on behalf of the Group of Members, I posed a similar question to Prime Minister Janez Janša. Since I was not satisfied with the answer, I also proposed that we hold a debate. Unfortunately, a year ago, the coalition did not have a hearing to discuss the problems of the Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries. I hope it's different this time. However, since this is always an ongoing topic, at the January meeting of the National Assembly on precisely these similar issues, I also asked the Foreign Minister, Dr. Dimitry Rupl, but I was able to answer only at the end of March two days ago or yesterday. I wasn't happy with his answer, either. In fact, the problems the Slovenians have in place are very big and it is right to talk about this in the National Assembly. The Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries may be an important bridge of cooperation and integration, but our foreigners in neighbouring countries, Austria, Italy, Hungary and Croatia are not satisfied with their position. Not particularly in Austria, with the implementation of the Austrian State Treaty or the implementation of Article 7 of this Treaty, in particular with regard to the establishment of bilingual local inscriptions in Koroška. I remember when I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs about these matters in January this year, Kärentner Tags Zeitung wrote that they even sent SMS messages with the following content in Austria. I will quote literally: "By opening this text message you have just killed a Korean Slovenian. Send SMS forward and participate in the action pure Koroška", end quote. I think it is right that we also discuss these problems in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u298	Thank you. Mr. Peče in his personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u299	Your Honors are here! My fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorc, I think he wanted to open up a new dimension with his question, one higher dimension than the framework that you outlined by the speakers before me. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia has failed in the framework of accession to the European Union both to Austria and to Italy. And I believe that this topic is not of interest to colleague Soko, nor to representatives of New Slovenia, but are these facts. And the facts are that the Republic of Slovenia does not have the capacity to establish the same path as it was itself given in negative form during the period of accession to the European Union. My colleague Zagorac offers you the opportunity to talk about the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia to one of the neighbouring countries and at the same time offers you the opportunity for the National Assembly as the highest branch of government to talk about the international policy of the Republic of Slovenia. And if we remember a year and a half ago, during the period of the previous government, ladies and gentlemen, which you are today forming a government, you have always been full of mouths about the sovereignty of our country, about the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has to rule on its own and expose its interests when it comes to negotiations. It's different today. It happens that whenever someone presses on our citizens to be in our country of the Republic of Slovenia, our country closes its eyes. The government. And whenever a foreign country presses its power on our foreign representatives, it also happens. Let us not allow ourselves to have the national assembly, just as the government of the Republic of Slovenia, closed its eyes before this kind of pressure. At the National Party, as stated by counterpart Zagorec, we will support this debate and we estimate that more is needed to talk about the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the international field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u300	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not only Article 7 in the State Treaty, in the Austrian State Treaty, that minority law is also at issue in Italy, and the Minister's statements made at Monday's meeting are also controversial, when he said that it is not worth answering the Member's question because it can open up new questions. And of course, Slovenian-Croatian relations are also at stake, which no one wants to answer. And that requires some open debate here in the National Assembly. And while someone from Austria asks for an official apology from a member of the national assembly, and this request is addressed to an external minister, he is also a kind of precedent in our foreign policy. Our foreign minister didn't answer that. The answers to these questions are urgent. We have also made written requests to the minister, to whom he has not responded until today, and he has also given you the answer here that it is not wise to speak about what he thinks. That is why this requirement has also been raised here to open a broader debate. Of course I'll support that request myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u303	Thanks again for saying that. In my reply to the Foreign Minister, I have often heard: "We are very good friends with the Austrians." I must say that the Austrians show this friendship to the Republic of Slovenia in a very strange way. Last but not least, the doubts or connections of Slovenia's foreign policy towards Austria are very obvious. Also, Minister Rupel himself has never denied that he is very connected with Austrian counterpart Schreder, whom we know, given that the Austrian elections are approaching, a mandate is due to expire. Schusslom, I apologize for not getting his mandate unless Mr Haider is given a mandate. And that is also the question that this national assembly must be informed about. He won't get a mandate if Haider doesn't get a mandate. And if this is the position of Slovenian foreign policy, then please let us know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u304	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler, probably on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I inform you that the Group of Members will support this proposal by Mr Zagorec. We are also convinced that the situation and situation of the Slovenian minority in Austria should also be discussed in this national assembly. Of course, there should also be a word about the situation of the Slovenian minority in Italy. It is not only that the 7th Article of the Austrian State Treaty is not respected, it is not only that they do not respect the decisions of the Austrian Constitutional Court in Austria. In the meantime and after that, Slovenia has become a full member of the Council of Europe, both Slovenia and Italy and Austria have adopted and ratified the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, the European Charter on Minority and Regional Languages, and all three countries are bound by these instruments. Meanwhile, in 2004, we became a full member of the European Union, and there is also talk about the need to protect the situation of national minorities in particular. Representatives of the Czech Republic have already gone to seek their rights and to inform about their situation and the situation of the Slovenian minority in Koroška, both in the Council of Europe, as you know, they were in Brussels yesterday before the European Parliament. There are more than enough reasons for this national assembly in a country that is the mother of both national minorities to talk about these problems and to demand more concrete answers from both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, why our government's attitude towards the position of the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries is so dim. I hope that the foreign minister will come here with different answers, rather than talking to Austria about the situation of our minority there, Durch die Blumen, as he once said. In short, this proposal from Mr Zagorec will be supported by the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u306	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u307	In my own name. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this proposal alone on this debate. But I'll tell you some reasons. In 2000 the Liberal Democracy, when it had a large majority, did not set up a commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, which was only later established. And as President of this Commission, I have been very determined and clear in three and a half years' time to draw attention to the issue. This is also why we decided to make the resolution for Slovenians worldwide and the law for Slovenians in place and around the world as our primary task. When this law on Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia was prepared for a parliamentary procedure, it was those who wanted this debate today that objected. That's too bad. However, I am pleased, and it is at this session that we will adopt the law in the third reading, but this government has taken one step further. From the Secretary of State, even from a minister we once had, then the Secretary of State came the management of this office to one of the ordinary civil servants. Now it's a political function again. I am pleased that we are not satisfied with this, therefore, all parliamentary parties, that this will come to the level of the Minister without a licence in this law. This is a guarantee that some things will begin to take place as necessary. We cannot discuss these things either in Celovac or in Trieste, but it is necessary in Vienna, in Rome and Budapest, not in Monoster.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u308	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that Slovenia is surrounded by four countries, none of which we can say is friendly. All of these four countries have intervened and intervened in Slovenian territory in certain times and even today. Slovenia has lost two thirds of its territory throughout its history. We're shrinking despite winning every war, but we're smaller after every war. It is therefore necessary to discuss this. It is therefore necessary to ask questions to the Minister and the Minister must answer that. This is not about Europe talking about friendship, because there are no friends in politics in European politics. Each country looks to its own interests. And Italy's interests are in conflict with Slovenia's interests. Austria's interests are exactly the same. Hungary's interests also, and particularly Croatia's interests. As long as we close our eyes to these facts and wait for this resort to take over some minister without a license, we will lose another part of the Slovenian territory. Therefore, I think it is reasonable and necessary to support this debate and pour ourselves pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u310	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, Mr Dusan Kumr, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Dragutin Matei, and the Minister for Justice, Dr Lovra Šturm, to Dusan Kumra's question on the intended amendments to the Police Act and the Law on Owl. Here you are, Mr. Kumer, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. Those who were present yesterday in the Chamber were able to find out from the reply of both ministers that in Slovenia it is recently a new security paradigm that speaks and proves that it is an obvious security exaggeration. Protagonists aren't cops, they're not operatives, and they're not on the ground. The inventors of this exaggeration are the so-called police and security managers who, behind the cabinet table, propose amendments to the legislation, in which case changes to the law on police as a law on Owls. Thus, the growing immeasurable power of the great brother, which translates into a secret repressive measure which, by law, may interfere with the constitutionally protected personal integrity of the citizen and collect information on his privacy, contains virtually unlimited possibilities for the worst violations of the law and the abuse of rights. And so yesterday, I suggested that we talk a little bit more about this subject in this national assembly. Why shouldn't we, Members, on behalf of the citizens breathe once as a collar to the police and not just the police to us and the citizens?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u312	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Kangler, on behalf of the delegation? In your own personal name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u313	I cannot support this proposal, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. However, I cannot support it for the following reason, because I have been a member of the Intelligence Supervisory Commission for nine years and I am a little surprised at the fellow Member who asked this question. The last committee for the supervision of intelligence services also dropped this issue with regard to the extension of powers to the police. In this context, as my previous interlocutor has said and suggested that we are here to discuss, I must openly acknowledge and also inform you that, at the moment following the assurance of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Matei, it is a matter of adapting certain acts of law in the Republic of Slovenia to certain acts in the European Union. Some of the proposals that are intended for the police to put someone at the border, including within the framework of legitimacy, on the list of people being monitored throughout the European Union and thus inform each other where someone is, in the way he travels, primarily those criminals who are subjected to the worst crimes. Once again, subject to the worst crimes, this is what Europe already has and needs to be adapted to, and in the end, foreigners are also passing through the Republic of Slovenia and we are subject to some European rules. And if it comes to the Slovenian border or to the interior a legitimate foreigner who is on the list that it is necessary to legitimize it, that it is necessary to review and inform certain European authorities in terms of security, in terms of preventing terrorism, it is necessary to amend and adopt this legislation. But believe me, as a member of this committee and as a member of this committee, I will certainly be on this field segment, just like a colleague who spoke before me, breathing to the police himself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u314	Mr. Kangler, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u315	THE owls and some collar services, which I am told by the law. [[...]] Therefore, I cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u316	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u318	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u319	Thank you, Mr. President. So in the LDS Group, we will support this proposal. Hold on, what colleague Kangler said was that we already said something on the Intelligence and Security Board about this. It is true that the draft law on police law has not yet been tabled in the procedure, that it has not been accepted by the government, that we do not know the texts. He says there's been a lot of writing about it. It is true that some solutions can be problematic, even though the Minister has also told us that the product to come will be synchronized with similar rules in force in the European Union. As far as we are concerned, it is important that no broad mandate will be given, which would be contrary to our constitutional order, even in the spirit of repealing Article 49 of the Police Act, because it has already happened to the police officers, but that the judicial authorities will continue to have powers of special investigation. On the other hand, it considers that the government has already adopted amendments to the SAA Act, which, according to the text written down, is highly problematic, according to our deep belief that it is possible to conduct specific investigative measures under the authority of the SOVA, by order of a specific judge, who will now, we do not know why he has changed, and after these changes, these measures can be carried out indefinitely because it is indisputable. The government excuses this by fighting terrorism, but I must say that we had a meeting back when we also talked about the terrorist threat to Slovenia after sending four instructors to Iraq, and the government has also ensured that the terrorist threat has not increased in any way. However, it proposes a solution to the amendment of the Law on Owl, which goes in the diametric opposite direction and empowers the Owl to be able to follow someone without restriction, that is, indefinitely, of course, after a decision by a specific court, which has been limited to a maximum of six months. And that seems problematic to us, and therefore it seems to me that it would be good, regardless of the fact that the law is coming into procedure, to discuss these problems at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Yuri in his personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u321	I will support the proposal because it is right to speak here before we come to the very procedure that will probably require a public presentation of the opinions on this law. This law is very important, and here comes the issue of quality and quality and the scope of human rights. That the law, and that this issue is, as the government and the Ministry of the Interior imagines, is controversial, warns the profession. It is good for me to remind you of Mr Klemenčič, and it is good for us to have a discussion earlier on this, to give everything, the actual situation at the table and the ministry will prepare later, perhaps also on the basis of our warnings, a law that will be digestible. It will be digestible for the profession, for civil society, for the category of human rights and, last but not least, for a possible constitutional assessment. So sometimes it is helpful to take preventive action so that we will not then make large decisions here, transfer the story to public presentations, recharge the newspapers with professional issues, which is of no benefit to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u322	Thank you. Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u323	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal from my colleague Kumra. In fact, I share my concerns with him and even more, I do not know if many people yesterday have noticed that the Minister of the Interior here has deceived a Member who has raised a question to him, as the National Assembly has deceived him and as the Slovenian public have also deceived, if such changes require us to become a member of the European Union or, in particular, Article 99 of the European Convention for the issuing of the Schengen Agreement. Of course that's not true. I have read this 99th Article and this Article contains a series of restrictions and conditions for such action, for example, that there must already be concrete evidence that a specific person is planning or already carrying out numbers and very serious crimes, or that a particular person, due to his past crimes, may be expected to commit extremely serious crimes in the future. Further, such action shall be admissible only if this is permitted by national legislation on the basis of the request and approval of the competent authorities and where there is concrete evidence that such information is necessary to prevent a significant threat or other significant threat to the internal or external security of the State. It is said that the Minister has silenced that this 99th article also commands the conditions which the law must contain in order to ensure that such monitoring can be carried out in secret. And this is not a joke under the password of membership in the European Union and that this is what Europe requires of us, it introduces elements of the police state here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u324	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u325	I owe it to my colleagues and colleagues who weren't, and most of them weren't in the hall yesterday, to explain, and I'm going to end up literally reading the question that I asked. For yesterday I received no explanation from the answer to my question, which was quoted - now paragraph 99. What conditions must be met for reasonable suspicion that a person will commit a crime and be targeted and collected in a confidential manner. I didn't get that answer yesterday, not just for that answer. I would like to point out that the amendment of the Owl Act has passed us, and we today have a proposal from the government in the parliamentary procedure. However, I must say in this regard, and the proposaler himself wrote that this is not required by European legislation, no adaptation, no recommendation and no directive. Nor do operatives require this, nor do they require the security situation that Kangler spoke about, which we have discussed over the past year, that this law should be amended in this Article. And also yesterday, we did not get a concrete answer from the Minister of Justice to this question regarding the amendment of the Law on Owls, but we heard about 11 September, the general security policy in Europe, the world and so on. Therefore, once again, it is right to speak openly and transparently about these things in this national assembly, and, last but not least, we are the highest legislative body in this country. And we have a responsibility for the laws that have been passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u326	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u327	Thank you very much. The control they want to carry out by the police is not the control of one party to another, but the control of the police over all parties. The fact is that the police are becoming increasingly autonomous, which the gentlemen of the United List began to implement when they had their minister there. They almost did it, and let's not go the same way. Let's not go the same way forward. The police will slowly form forces that will feel that they are above the government, over parliament and over everyone else. Then it'll be too late to yam. When these gentlemen get their hands on you, you have to be aware that they won't let her out of their hands. And despite the fact that gentlemen of the current Social Democratic Party are laughing and smiling, that is nevertheless true. At that time, we were actually on the verge of some kind of police strike within the police force. Thank God it couldn't have come to this anymore, but it could have happened. Therefore, every parliamentary democracy must exercise and exercise strict control over the police and these forces. So let's support the debate, see what's on the agenda, and avoid the worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u328	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, mag. Andrej Bručan, on the question of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš concerning the payment of contraceptive services. Here you are, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on behalf of the parliamentary group probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u329	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The fact is that we have heard in a few hours of debate today how important the issue for this government is, after all, for this coalition, the issue of human health, public health. For quite some time in the public, there have also been questions about the reduction of women's rights in the field of health - specifically those rights that have followed the constitution of the chapter of the free decision on the birth of a child and also laws derived from the Constitution. Yesterday, I asked the Minister a question related to instructions sent by the Health Insurance Office to its regional units. It is true that I have raised a specific issue relating to contraception. It is therefore a question which is in the exclusive domain of women. But there are other instructions in this leaflet, not just for the area of contraception, and I'll talk about it later. I fear or hope that what is actually happening in the field of contraception is not a new government strategy or orientation for raising fertility in our country. The Minister does not or does not want to know what is actually going on, and this is the Minister who is responsible for the supervisory function of the Health Insurance Office. The broader debate could certainly provide answers to the questions currently raised. I have mentioned the area of contraception, and at this point I stress, not just in the field of contraception. The prescription, payment and payment of medicinal products to cancer patients is also questioned. We got a couple of calls and comments last night. In short, these are issues that could be clarified in a broader debate on public health in our country. And allow me to underpin the request for a broader debate on the Minister's response to my question of the Member's with the words he has said and which are recorded in the tapegram: "This must also take into account the status quo of the person." Please! Is it about disclosing Slovenian citizens and citizens in the field of public health? I therefore appeal once again for you to support the request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u330	Thank you. Mrs. Potter, on behalf of the House of Representatives? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u331	On behalf of the House of Representatives. Thank you. Dear Members and Members! We will support the proposal for a debate on the response of the Minister of Health to the Member's question, which concerns a very delicate issue because we are facing two different aspects of the right to free decision on the birth of children. The strong movement towards life, which rejects contraception on the one hand, and even more abortion, is of course not in favour of the request set out in the resolution on the national programme for the realization of equal opportunities between women and men, which has received full support in this Parliament and in which special care and a range of measures are specifically intended for the protection of women's reproductive health in this Parliament. And among these measures, it is specifically stated that contraception must be free of charge. It seems that the material preparers did not change their mind to see what they wrote in the resolution if we have already found in the proposed law on suitable or comparable medicines that some hormonal contraceptives were intended for a group of medicines or devices for which women should pay. Nor is it a hidden fact that the availability of contraception for women has decreased significantly. If the government has a programme of increasing fertility, greater or stronger stimulation to increase the number of children, then it should do so in accordance with the population on which it depends most, whether more desirable children will actually be born, and above all I think that they should be concerned that the Prime Minister mentions the release of Slovenia and that the part of the population is certainly not providing for release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u332	Thank you. Mr. Pache, in your own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u333	Thank you. I would ask if a meeting of the SDS Group would take place outside if they were so correct on the health issue. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u334	That's right. Please, give me a break. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u335	I believe that you are concerned about public health or the health status of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That you're only interested in it and that you're only interested in it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u336	Mr. Pece, it's an explanation of the voice, not a controversy. The gentlemen are quiet. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u337	Allow me to proceed. I believe that you have little interest in the health status of citizens and citizens. This is at the final stage in accordance with your previous conduct within the framework of the National Assembly, which means that you have always and only followed the instructions of that branch of authority for which [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u338	Mr. Pece, there's no controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u339	Mr. President, allow me to say this to the end. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u340	That's not how you do it, Mr. Pache. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Health Andrey Bručan to Mrs Cvete Zalokar Orazam's question on the intended transfer of competences for the award of basic health concessions to the country. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u341	The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed debate because, in my question to Minister Bručan, I also asked about the strategy for the privatisation of Slovenian health, and in response, Minister Bručan mentioned to me that he had already told me some of what he was going to say. However, I do not believe that he did not answer the fundamental question concerning all layers, all ages of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Health is a value that we are particularly sensitive to when we feel that our health is at risk. Curious solidarity in the health system, used in the public health system, citizens and citizens in Slovenia find it difficult to accept the fact that they are telling us that long waiting types, poor access to health services will be resolved with the miracle of private health. In 1995, the World Health Organization, by research, demonstrated that the availability of health services for all segments of the population is no longer ensured wherever privatisation has compensated public health. According to the European Social Charter, equal access to health services is a fundamental human right. So we are committed by the Social Democrats to having a broad public debate or at least a debate on the answer to this question in the National Assembly, because we have not been given to learn about the strategies of privatisation of Slovenian health until now. However, under the Public Finance Act, all direct budgetary users need to be provided with legal bases for a strategy that is professional. We do not know all of this, this is not guaranteed, although Minister Bručan assures that the strategy exists and we believe that this should be discussed. We will therefore support the proposal for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u342	Thank you. Mr. Barovich. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u343	Yes, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I think the content we're talking about right now is really an emergency and a need. You know, because our common component of monitoring information is because we cannot keep track of everything if we hang around here all day, even in the media, that we talk every day about top health professionals going their own way. And what the distinguished lady, who represented and advocated health care and I welcome her, said, does this mean that only non-vulnerable experts remain. In fact, in the area of health, there has been a mess, an absolute mess. Primary and secondary health care has been limping in one way or another, especially people, including us. And now I think, out of everything that's growing out of the public eye, there's been a complete chaos. No one knows who the private person is, who the concessionaire is, who the half-concessionary is, who can give something to, and who can't give anything to. It is not just that, for the first time, we are afraid that we will lose the basic health care that every citizen can afford. Secondly, we don't know if all people will be able to pay for basic health care, which will move into private areas that no one has anything against. But in this area, colleagues and colleagues, respected gentlemen, it is necessary to make order and to know what basic needs are for primary primary and secondary health care, which we must provide to every citizen, and, on the other hand, how to enable people with a lot of energy, knowledge, time, power and will to work on concessionary activities or to go into private waters. No one has anything to do with this, but we must agree in this national assembly on how we will deal with each other and others, so that people will be satisfied, demonstrate their capacities and abilities, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that we, who will provide basic primary health care by law for all almost two million Slovenians who pay for this health all their lives and for whom we must care, as they are, not least, our fellow nationals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u344	Thank you. Mr. Germich. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. In the LDS House of Members, we will support the proposal for a debate on a very important area in the field of health, as we also supported Mrs Tavševa's proposal. It seems very important to us today to note that we have addressed a similar question in the parliamentary club a while ago to the Prime Minister, where we have drawn attention to the so-called 'bruchanisation' process, where public health is being transferred to private concessions. Today we have another opportunity here to discuss this again and decide to hold a thorough debate on this. It's been a year and a half since this government took over the Ministry of Health. And it is also a year and a half when we do not have a national healthcare programme to define the basic policy of the Ministry of Health and these governments in this area. We are afraid that individual moves that are not coordinated will be – one example is the drug law, where we introduce the sale of medicines into so-called specialised shops, with a note of the consequences that may have a significant impact on health care. And, of course, it would be very correct that we have a responsible attitude towards the construction of the public health network, both in the public network and in the private sector, so that we do not have cases, because the Minister himself in his statements strongly encourages us to leave primary, secondary and tertiary health care in private. There are no clear answers as to what this will bring to the future for the health care of Slovenes and Slovenes. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that we support this proposal for a debate on the response of Minister Bručan to the question raised by the Member States to obtain, not only us in the National Assembly, but also the entire Slovenian public, clear answers as to what is going on in this area, whether they are competent or not, and what will be the fate and situation of Slovenians and Slovenians in the field of healthcare in the future, with great doubt that uncoordinated, non-transparent policies can only be made worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Allow me, because you are discussing everything possible, the whole of health care, I would like to repeat once again the question that should be explained by the person who wants to. This is the question of the envisaged transfer of competences for the award of basic health-care concessions from the municipality to the country. That was the question. Mr. Squeakle, please, on your personal behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u347	Mr President of the National Assembly, that's all I'm going to talk about. Let me quote Minister Virant first. [[Friday, 24 March 2006, meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control]] : "The State of the Republic of Slovenia will only support such concessions if it is cheaper and if it is in the public interest." Just concessions like that. What is now being done in health care is obviously not your favourite as a doctor, because otherwise we would not have interrupted Mr Pečet so harshly on the previous question. If the concessions are awarded because of the wishes of doctors and if the profits are below the line, not solidarity and quality of health care as the basic principle of the award of concessions in the primary, secondary or tertiary health field, then Slovenia is going very far, towards North America. I am sorry that you do not wish to allow our fellow Members to discuss this, first of all as a doctor, as I have understood. The issue of primary level concessions is not only whether the Minister will decide whether or not to be decided by friends from ministers, but it is a fundamental issue related to what functions the State carries out at local level. I would therefore suggest that we hold a debate on this to call on the Minister of Public Administration, who spoke about these criteria, and ask him whether his colleague, Mr Bručan, through the "guarantee" is really ensuring this. That's why I'm going to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u348	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u349	I sincerely hope that this time you will not interrupt, that you will also respect your education, but, of course, this is a matter of your morals and it is obviously very low. But the fact is that all concessions that take place today in the transfer of health care to private implementation are not based on law. Within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we have already told you several times that there is still a fundamental statutory law on concession activities. That this is one of those laws that would be passed in the field of public finances in the context of non-tax revenue. But this government, like the previous government, is not prepared to listen to this economic measure. As regards primary health care, secondary or tertiary activities, in connection with this transfer to private health care, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that this is subject to an individual’s pocket and, unfortunately, if the government assesses that individual health services are interested in capital, then it will also carry out this. It is my personal regret, however, that the National Assembly is subject to such leadership or management as is carried out by Mr Tsukati, and does not allow the National Assembly to speak about the false instructions of Mr Bručan, the Minister for Health, issued both in the field of gynaecological checks and in the field of oncological checks, and gentlemen and ladies, as long as you keep your eyes closed in such an area, on the basis of the wishes of Mr President of the National Assembly, Dr Francet Tsukjati, so long will mourning take place in this National Assembly and will probably also be sad today in the field of asbestos. But at the final stage, we all want to thank our President of the National Assembly, who does not even allow for a debate in the Forum of Democracy, which this National Assembly is supposed to be. Mr. Cuckoo, you should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u350	Mr. Pece, time will run out. Mr. Pache, I don't know if you'll ever apologize to me, that's your business and that's your culture. Mr. Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u351	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this topic should also be discussed. Not only this, of course, about all the previous ones you voted against. It is that we are, however, a parliament, a space of speech, debate, debate. Last time we had a High Representative of the European Community here, who brought us democracy, debate, debate. None of that. We obviously need the European Union only when we want to minimize the standards of rights and when we want to maximize the standards of limitations, obligations and decommission democracy. What Mr Bručan proposes is not only a denial of the health system or part of the denial, but it is part of the denial of all the rights we citizens have. And that's exactly where it's going, from Parliament you're making a voting machine, a confirmatory machine, a congregation that you like to make fun of so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u352	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Boštjan Zagorec, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, to the question of Bosnia and Herzegovina's question on agricultural subsidies and the encouragement of minority farms. Mr Zagorac, please, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u353	Thank you for your word. Allow me to begin with some kind of apology, especially the first kind of ruling coalition, especially the SDS and NSI, for the "lapsus lingue", which happened to me at the word Schroeder and Schussel, and all the others who sit for the first row, you laughed, as you would say in Styria - by "befel", is said by order, and you will also vote in the next law, probably by "befel" and by order. If I go back to the Ministry of Agriculture subsidies. Despite the strong progress we have made in 2006, still many farmers have not received the subsidies paid or the subsidies paid, nor the regresses for the previous year. Farmers who received these funds at the end of 2005 are now facing liquidity problems due to late payments. As I have already said in my performance, the good master always plans ahead of time to spend his financial resources, and these farmers today, who have not received these subsidies, face liquidity problems or property withdrawals. Finally, not the Minister of Agriculture, not the Minister of Finance, I am pleased, Mr Pojbič, Mr Hvauc, that you have accepted so many cultures and will listen to what we are saying. I believe that agriculture is one of the most important things in your field and in my field. Thank you very much again, thank you very much. Farmers receiving subsidies or receiving subsidies in 2006 for 2005, not the Minister of Finance, nor the Minister of Agriculture, were able to answer the question of how to settle their income. Or because they will receive financial resources in one year, they will also fall into a larger income class. [[The ad in the hall.]] Fine! I believe that Mr Pojbič, instead of Minister of Agriculture or Minister of Finance, will be happy to answer me because he knows the answers in advance. But I would still like to hear the Minister of Finance say how the income will have to be charged to the people who have received the income for two years paid in one year. [[?]] . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u354	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u355	Thank you, Madam President. Slovenia has brought at least one of the rules and laws from Brussels, translated them and actually implemented them into its legislation. All I have to do is mention the area that's most at impact. We do not have payments for the most affected environment today, this is the agriculture area for 2005. This will happen, as promised by the Minister, in the coming days. However, Italy has a seven-year contract to be signed after careful review and supervision, and those who receive a subsidy from the State can plan for years ahead, take loans, plan their agricultural activities, and thus survive their family and guarantee the existence of anyone else or hire anyone else. This can't happen with us because we're too much of a country. And despite the fact that agriculture is the most under attack within the European community, we do not know what instruments the neighbours are already using. That is why I support the fellow Member's initiative, and I demand that the debate be held on this, because, as we know, the agricultural ministry is truly the weakest member of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u356	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u357	Thank you. We are obliged to hold this debate. We owe this debate to all those involved in agriculture. The fact is that colleague Boštjan Zagorac highlighted two aspects in the context of his parliamentary question. The first aspect is the different criteria or changing instructions sent by this National Assembly, as well as by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, by the President of the State, to farmers. If you remember, in the years 2000 to 2004, we said that small Slovenian agriculture did not have a perspective. On a proposal from the then government, the entire national assembly said that small farms would fail, that they could not apply for subsidies and that there was no room for them in the framework of the European Union and, above all, the common agricultural policy. Mr Zagorac also highlighted in his question of the Member States the new position of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovška, who stressed in his recent address to Slovenian farmers that the future is in small farms. And right through this debate of the highest authority in our country, in which the ministry would also participate, I sincerely hope, the emphasis is on "hoping" to come up with a credible position towards Slovenian farmers. How do people working in agriculture now know whether it makes sense to have small farms or whether it makes sense to have large farms? In the last period, we have witnessed two different informations. And the answer to this information can be given through an extensive discussion. It is therefore appropriate to support the idea and basic vision of colleague Boštjan Zagorec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u358	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Sculpture. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u359	Yes, you can. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there is no way to talk in this House about the forecasting changes in the health network. I understand that it is not possible to talk about reducing women's rights in terms of their orderly or irregular personal status. I understand that it is not possible to hold a debate on increasing the powers of the police and consequently reducing personal freedoms. I understand that we are moving ahead of the debate on a two-tier Austrian policy when it comes to the issue of the Slovenians. It is also clear to me that the Prime Minister, who is omniscient and callous, is not ready to discuss with us the three issues raised here. However, I am not sure that we would be doing the right thing in this case if we did not have a debate on this issue, because any newspaper you open, any radio, television, is expected everywhere by a friendly Mr Šircelj and Mr Simič, explaining how the income forecast will be fulfilled. This cannot be discussed here. Look what he's saying. I can't help but remember and you, who have become great Europeans, that last year there was a 400-year anniversary of a novel that talks about fighting a windmill in the wind. What we're doing here is very similar. I do not know what else should have happened in order to be able to hold a debate on any issue. We're talking about some development partnership. What kind of partnership is this? Shut up. To vote and to join the directorate. Is this a partnership where you can talk about something? And is Parliament a class where you can only get a word if someone gives you one? No, the president can't take her here, luckily for us, anyone else to authorize you for any question. Please support this initiative and let us make at least two people who like to speak clearly that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u360	Mr. Skull, it's time. Thank you very much. Mr. Juban. In your personal name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u361	Yes, in private. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Personally, I am not thrilled that our mood in this national assembly is gradually getting worse. This is probably because all the proposals to discuss the problems present in this country are highly acute, arrogantly rejected. This last proposal is probably the result of quite a few questions at the same point of the same national assembly already in several continuations. We place these unfortunate subsidies in agriculture at the same meetings as some of us. And this last initiative is an opportunity for coalition, because the debate would probably be at the next meeting. It is an opportunity for the coalition to triple, because at the next meeting, decisions are being issued, subsidies are being paid, of course, provided that what Dr Bajuk said yesterday is true, decisions will be issued by Friday, they will be transferred on the basis of these decisions. And I don't see any reason not to support it, and maybe in a month, when the debate would be, if it were true what both ministers and ministers say is going to happen, just to find out if it's really okay or not. I will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u362	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Darje Lovtišar Bebler, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the reply of Justice Minister Dr Lovra Šturm to Mrs Darje Lovtizar Bebler's question on the situation in the judiciary. Here you go, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The situation in the judiciary is very poor and worrying. At the same time as the judges' resistance to the enforcement of the law on the public sector's salary system and against the decision on the salaries of officials, all other issues and problems that plague the Slovenian judiciary today have also emerged on the day. Poor working conditions, inadequate premises, poor equipment, too many judges or their assistants and professional associates, the outflow of many of the most capable judges and the inability to obtain the best young lawyers or those who already have extensive work experience in the field of civil and economic law. All these problems are also reflected in the slow resolution of backlogs. The Minister of Justice does not answer the question of whether he advocates the abolition or restructuring of the permanent term of office of judges. He says Lukende's program is gonna work, because it has to work. What a poof. The Minister can easily request extraordinary supervision in a case of legal jurisdiction, because according to him, the judge has failed to carry out sufficient and proper evidence. Unheard of. In the judiciary, we are actually witnessing an extraordinary situation. All of this certainly undermines the rule of law and threatens respect for the principle of the division of power. The appetites of the executive authorities to interfere with the independent judiciary and the independent judiciary are too large and unacceptable. Therefore, the situation in the judiciary and the current problem of justice must be addressed in a specific session or special hearing in the National Assembly. I'm sure, dear colleagues and colleagues, you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u364	Thank you. Mr. Peche. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u365	Thank you. Yesterday, the Minister replied which investments were made within the Slovenian judiciary. He said, geographically rounded, that a few hundred square metres of new surfaces had obtained a judiciary in Maribor. He said that there were several hundred square metres of land to carry out the judicial activity on the newly acquired city of Ljubljana. He also said that a few hundred square metres of new premises were obtained in the context of or in the area of the municipal municipality of Celje. The Minister also referred to where the new square was obtained for the performance of the judicial function. And the fact is that from 2000 to 2004, the National Assembly adopted zero financial requests from the Ministry of Justice or the judiciary after the increase in funding. All these requests were approved by the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly, and here I must also defend the executive branch of the government - that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has approved an increase in funding from the period 2000 to today, the National Assembly also, on a proposal from the Government, approved an increase in the square for the conduct of judicial service in our country, despite the fact that once the so-called twinning project spoke of the three biggest shortcomings of the Slovenian judiciary. And all three of them had only one common denominator, which is the inefficiency of Slovenian judges in relation to a permanent judicial mandate. And you probably know, all the Members of this National Assembly and all the Members of this Parliament, that we have tabled constitutional changes within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which touch on the areas of the judiciary that touch on the prohibited subject matter of the discussion so far, that is the sustainability of the judicial mandate. And that in any case within the framework of the Constitutional Commission of the State as well as the follow-up procedure - that is, the constitutional procedure - because the fact is that the legislator in this case is also the founder is having a debate in this regard. Therefore, at least in the Slovenian National Party, we see no reason to seek an apology for the Slovenian judicial backlog. The fact is, the culprit is known. He knows him as well as the minister, the government as we all do. The culprits are ineffective judges and, above all, judges who judge on the basis of bias. We are reminded of this by Europe, which has long been pointed out by the Slovenian National Party. And it is true that so far, within the framework of the previous government, you have covered your ears against this problem. I'm afraid it's too late today. As we say, this is what Europe reminds you of, and the fact is that it is imperative to adopt constitutional changes that are in progress in one way or another. Therefore, we will not support the proposal of Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u366	Thank you. Mr. Potch, on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u367	We will support the proposal in the parliamentary group. The situation in justice is difficult, which is the mildest expression, much worse to say. Mr Minister, even in my opinion, rather than addressing the causes, he is acting more like a coerced governor of the judiciary. I think that the debate on how to address the causes, not constantly looking for new drugs by addressing the consequences, is necessary in the National Assembly. However, I will humbly point out that I hope that, according to the spirit in this national council, something will not happen to us if we open this debate, and that most will not think much more than the Minister himself in the direction of a coerced governor, but not in the direction of addressing the causes of the problems in the judiciary. I hope we make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u368	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič, in your personal name?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u369	Thank you very much. If the starting point of the debate were different, as far as the issue of the judiciary is concerned, that the judges do not judge by law, that they are unprofessional, that they do not act as they should, in this case they would support the debate. That starting point, set by Mrs Lovtišar Bebler, does not in any way convince us to support any debate, after all, it was the Liberal Democracy in the previous term that was blocking the regulation of the situation by giving silence to the unregulated judiciary, judges and prosecutors. The fact is that the German inspectorate has discovered in Slovenia that Slovenian judges, as well as prosecutors, work about twice as little as German to make more than twice as German, that they have about the same salaries as German judges and that they have significantly better job equipment as German judges, and at the same time our judges and prosecutors have the so-called lifetime mandate, from which no one can get them out, regardless of how they judge, and they also have absolute immunity, such immunity, which Members cannot even dream of, and yet there is nothing to be said about. If we were to talk about these matters, I would absolutely support this debate, because there is an apology here for the wrongdoing, the lack of expertise and bias of the judges, and I will not support it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u371	Thank you very much. I would also very much like to rush into the debate in this national assembly when it comes to the question of the work of judges or of the judiciary. Since I became very active in dealing with the issue of sexual abuse, especially children, I have been amassed by lists of papers that talk about how unfairly judges have acted in the process itself to children, to victims of sexual violence and, last but not least, to others involved in these proceedings. But unfortunately or to great joy, I too will join my fellow Members in saying that we cannot actually apologize for the unfair, unfair or simple misdemeanour of judges. That is why I will not support this debate. I would like to remind or point out once again that the procedure is open in the context of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which allows for a wider discussion of the issues that we have raised today within the framework of the Slovenian National Party. And it is this party that has requested an extensive debate that is the party that is blocking or opposed to a broader debate in the context of constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u372	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u373	Of course, I will support this debate initiative. I think that the situation in the judiciary and justice is such that it needs a thorough debate. Of course, the star angles of this debate can be different. The question arises, as one of my colleagues pointed out, is whether the judges are good. I don't know. I haven't eaten any. However, I know it is good to discuss the pressures, the different alternatives and options that are emerging here, and in particular the narrowing of the powers that the judiciary has in its field. And I think it's a topic that we should talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u374	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. In principle, I wasn't going to call, but the execution of my predecessor has led me to explain my voice. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the previous government, last but not least, you are the one who has made judges for the holy cows, for the untouchable people, for the people with a permanent judicial mandate that has caused a number of judicial backlogs in this country. And if we were actually serious, we would support the initiatives of the Slovenian National Party in the constitutional process that is under way, but not that you are blocking the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u376	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Today, I am really worried about our opposition, which obviously did not understand any of the ministers' answers, about the 10th vote on yesterday's questions. On each issue, they want a broad debate, knowing how such a debate is, as a rule, being initiated. And unfortunately, I find that obviously, if that's the case, they can't write interpolation. This is also the work of the opposition, if necessary, but in a strange way they are avoiding themselves, and even on this issue about the Slovenian judiciary they are trying to confuse the actual situation. The question came from the legal types and the party most responsible for the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, for backlogs, for penalties from the European Court of Justice, and by chance - Mrs Beblereva justified the behaviour of the Slovenian judiciary as a creative interpretation of the law. Everything has been swept under this issue and under this carpet and today to reflect in this way, thus talking about the fact that they are for the general debate. I agree that a debate is needed, but you will have to acknowledge your responsibility in some normal debate, not to discuss matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u378	Thank you. Anyone else for explanations of vote? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 55. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 55.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Ambassador Majda Shirca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to Mrs Majda Shirca's question on the implementation of the resolution of the national programme for culture 2004-2007. Mrs Shirca, please explain your vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u379	Colleagues and colleagues! Especially those who were still here in the previous term, what would they have said then if 10 proposals with unsatisfactory answers were incomplete, inadequate and not sufficiently in-depth, rejected. Arrogant, isn't it? Obsession, self-sufficiency, impudence. Nor was the Minister for Culture's response satisfactory, it was palpable and incomplete for me. I reminded him that the resolution of the national cultural programme 04/07 was adopted in this national assembly with 100% support, without reservations and without opposing votes. I reminded him that in his client, in coalition lines, all of you supported the resolution. Moreover, the fate of Slovenian culture was very important to you at the time, loud, long-lasting and universal. Of course, someday. Today, the Minister of Culture does not deal with the resolution of the national programme on culture, he deals with the media, which is modelled on the strategic council, he deals with the parade, and the assembly for the Republic deals with the elections. However, the resolution is not implemented in important parts. It does not, I reminded it, and yesterday it was also possible to imagine why there had not been a report in the National Assembly already last year, which the Minister, after the law on the exercise of public interest in culture, should have brought here, should have discussed, should have faced with amendments and amendments to the resolution, or even possibly with its abolition, as the Minister also suggested to me in the written question. In short, the Minister of Culture couldn't, maybe he was limited in time, maybe he didn't want to talk anymore. You, who is the destiny of Slovenian culture for the Slovenian nation of primary importance, will certainly not find it difficult to vote today to detect in this national assembly what is being done within the cultural programme which you yourself have confirmed and which we have also stood for, and what is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u380	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Peche. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Bevk raised his hand earlier. Here you go, Mr. Bevk. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u381	I can, even if I don't spend three minutes. In the Socialist Group of Members, we will support the proposal of colleague Majda Širc to hold a discussion on the answer to her question, which Minister of Culture Vasko Simoniti did not satisfactorily address. In 2004, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia unanimously adopted, without a vote, a resolution on the national programme for culture for the period 2004-2007. All their votes were then contributed, including by colleagues and opposition colleagues, so I heard that even this year the Secretary of State, Mr Zorn, had wondered where such a unity between the coalition and the opposition had come from, and checked whether this claim was indeed true. That's right. That's right. The National Assembly then unanimously adopted this programme, the first national programme to be adopted in the independent Republic of Slovenia. We propose that the debate be held as soon as possible not only on 2004 but also on 2005. And we propose that the Ministry prepare a comprehensive report as soon as possible and that, on the basis of the law - because this is also its obligation - it will send to the National Assembly to talk comprehensively about cultural policy in Slovenia, as well as how this resolution has been implemented and how we see the vision for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u382	Thank you. Mr. Pache, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u383	In your own name, please. Yesterday, I listened quite carefully or substantively to my colleague Shirca. Although today her question has been presented as a question of the resolution of the national cultural programme, I can assure you that, at least in my ears, her question has sounded different, this is the content of the transformation of the Viba film. The fact is that it was me and my fellow Member, Victory Jelinčič, who was accused of a lot of things by the proposers of this issue when we proposed the same matter for each other. At that time, gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy, especially colleague Školč and his like, marked us as a lot of things because we tried to cause the Republic of Slovenia to implement [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u384	Mr. Pece, this is not a matter of controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u385	Mr Tsukjati, Viba film, if I had led the session yesterday, I led it, you were not present, was part of Mrs Shirce's question, but you can stop me, which is in your habit. But what I'm trying to say is that this kind of debate is not in the context of a political debate that, in the case of an institution, a Member or a Member of Parliament is praising the transformation into a share society, which happened yesterday in the area of Viba film, before 30 days ago. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u386	Mr. Pache, please, don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u387	criticises and in the worst way denotes the other opponents that this is something unacceptable, so I cannot personally support your initiative. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u388	Mr. Milan Friday, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u389	Thank you, President. And the SNS is just Coalition B, as it seems. I was also at this meeting yesterday, and the fact is that, with what Mr Pece mentioned, I also heard a request to address the situation concerning the resolution. And I am taking part in the initiative of Majda Shirca to hold a debate on this. And what would I ask the minister? I would ask him how his heart is, where his criteria are, that in addition to Cankar's home, the largest event centre in Slovenia - the National House, unlike in previous years, in 2004 - 50 million, in 2005 - 35 million, he allocates 12 million in 2006 to perform such a wide range of activities in the cultural and event field that he simply does not withstand any criticism. And if these are not topics that we should discuss here today or next month, then I think that those who swear on culture and on the importance of culture in Slovenian society, this, you do not even realize these actions, and therefore it would be right to support this initiative and to open this debate on culture ourselves and on the resolution as an element of this culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u390	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u391	Thank you. I will support my colleague Majda Shirca's request to hold a national assembly debate on what the National Assembly should do by law - to review the report on the implementation of the national programme on culture. I have asked the Minister myself about this, but I have not received any concrete answers, but he has repeatedly mentioned that there is a need to change priorities in culture. Since priorities are changing in the same way as they were adopted, it would be appropriate to first review what was done and then identify what needs to be changed if the current government coalition has intended to amend the national plan. And since we are already so far away in 2006, it would be really good to hold a debate on the report on the implementation of the national programme for culture for the previous year, so that we would not wait another additional year for the report on the implementation of the national programme for culture. This is especially because this ministry owes another report or some other national programme, such as a national programme on the implementation of language policy, but only the media and nothing else is interested in this culture ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u392	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 84 Members present and 28 votes against 55. [[in favour of a vote of 28.]] [[Against 55.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2006 with the Report on the situation in the European Union and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in it in 2005. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration, we are moving on to a decision on the declaration. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the declaration would be inconsistent. Mr Barovich, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u393	On behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this morning's work, we have brought down quite a few substantive shortcomings that we would like to highlight in our work in 2006, which are, of course, linked to three basic points of this declaration - the introduction of the euro in 2007 and the other two points: the acquisition of funds from the European Union and, in particular, the Presidency. We have agreed or will not oppose this declaration in the Slovenian National Party. However, right now, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to point out that at all competent institutions, I will initiate an initiative to have Slovenia among the 25 members of the European Union be the one to relaunch and run the bicycles for the speedy adoption of the Constitutional Treaty, because, in fact, the content of the declaration programme that we are talking about today depends on the adoption of the Constitutional Treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u394	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, on behalf of the House?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u395	Yeah. We will support the declaration because, at the stage of adoption, the Committee on Foreign Policy was supported by a special amendment and a specific addition to the chapter of national policy as regards the Barcelona process. Finally, the government supports the establishment of a Mediterranean university as the centre of joint education of new staff, new experts, new intellectuals in the Mediterranean area, which can guarantee a better future of security and cooperation in this area. Even though the government is committed in this declaration to a more active role in the establishment of this university, we would like to call on it to be even more ambitious and, as some wish, also to be candidates, to notify its candidacy for the head office of this university. If Malta does so, I think that Slovenia has the same ambitions, the same conditions for it to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u396	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 1. (The vote was 76.)(against 1.) I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u397	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A respected choir! According to the Socialist Group of Members, the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos is a step back in solving the asbestos problem in Slovenia, as its title narrows down the content of the law itself. The law applies only to the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, but not to the harmful effects of exposure to hazardous asbestos. It therefore applies only to workers employed in asbestos production, but not to residents exposed to asbestos in the immediate vicinity of production facilities. I must point out that the law was adopted without the cooperation of the social partners and the medical profession, and the claims of the people who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos powder were also justified. With the proposed amendments, the Social Democrats wanted to complement the basic concept of the government asbestos law with an environmental and not just professional aspect of asbestos diseases, together with colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. Asbestos was exposed to about 23,000 employees in Slovenia. Experts estimate that the peak of disease in Slovenia will only be around 2025. Even more so are forecasts in the EU, as some 250,000 people are expected to die as a result of asbestos exposure and some 400,000 in the worst case scenarios. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will vote against the law, calling on the government to prepare a new law that will comprehensively regulate asbestos issues in Slovenia and, besides professionally, implement the environmental aspect of the recognition of asbestos diseases. I also call on colleagues and colleagues from the coalition to reject the law, because the discipline of the rare coalition members who have opposed the law so far is not an honour of Slovenian parliamentary tradition. I would like to read the first paragraph of Article 82 of the Constitution before deciding. I quote: "The Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any instructions," and I add - not even from Gregorčič Street in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u398	Thank you. Mr. Clavor. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u399	On behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. President, the House of Honor. I won't be long. I'll be very brief, because colleague Bevk has already told everything before me. I think that we are alone and that I myself have explained before this congregation what we think about this law and how we will act. Look, we've been expecting since last year that the product will be fine and will meet our expectations, especially for that group of people who didn't come into this law that stayed outside factory and workshop spaces. Since our thinking was in this direction, let this be moral and professional, but also political, it is likely that this professionally prevailed in this case. That's why our thoughts were a little different, but we experienced that our heads or our names were surrounded by red lines, and that's why we had a nice conversation with the Prime Minister about, I would say, this rather offensive and rude act, which I don't know how it came to the public -- we've heard from the public. But we talked about this and told him our position. We four with the Prime Minister and tell him what we think about this law and not expect all of us to agree with what is written. There is much good written in this, but not much is missing, but much is missing. We also presented to him if the law is not adopted, in this case, to bring an immediate amendment to the law, which will also affect those people or those who have not been professionally exposed, but who have lived in that reality, in that environment where there has been serious pollution. I think that if the law is passed, then we will also launch this novel. And, Mr President, if you'll allow me to speak my personal opinion as I stand. I'd say this: under my picture in a magazine was written "retired insubordination". Since it was under my picture, I would like to remind you that I have not been retired yet, this is the first mistake, the second mistake - I have not retired my principles, so I will vote as I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u400	Thank you. Mr. Testen. On behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u401	Thank you for your word. Now I'm gonna be on my own, because I'm gonna be short. I think you know more or less about how my fellow Members are going to vote, and I think I have a duty to say, and I will support the law. I will uphold the law because I think that marriage is better than what we have now. It is better because, in addition to those workers involved in the processing of asbestos, it also takes into account those who have used asbestos products or have been in any other way in contact with it. I regret that this law has not resolved the issue of the peoples. I must say that when the amendments were in the previous reference, I voted in favour of those amendments to include the nationals in the law. I think that, on the basis of the agreement between the DeSUS and the Prime Minister, it is possible in a very short time in the coalition to obtain a solution that will in some way resolve the issue of the countries. But this is a difficult question, so I think we need to be patient. In the future, however, I will take the initiative to get rid of the locals, at least the most acute cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u402	Thank you. Mr. Friend, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u403	Thank you very much. The law is undeniably worse than what it used to be because it excludes the environmental aspect. It also excludes the right of patients to participate in the diagnostic process, takes away their right to information and significantly makes retirement conditions more difficult. We cannot help but overlook the fact that Members of the ruling coalition who will vote in favour of the government proposal will in some way vote against what their municipal organisations or regional committees think and what is stated in this petition. I warned you about that earlier when I was talking. The fact is that this is a relevant situation which shows that not everything is in the lines of the ruling coalition as it should be, at least not at the local level. If we are talking about what will be worse for people, it will certainly be necessary to seek the right to continue if this law is to be adopted. Time is an irreparable component and it is certainly not in their best interests to fight the country, for many of them will not be able to see their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u404	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u405	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support this law because of what Dr. Klavor said earlier. We believe that the law solves the problem that it deals with is significantly better than the one that the previous one solved. However, we will actively cooperate, and these are also agreements within our parliamentary group, in the preparation of such possible amendments as will resolve some of the shortcomings of this law, which may have to be done in order not to leave any injustices in this area. As it is said, the parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u406	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich. On behalf of the MP? Mr. Anderlich, you will be on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u407	Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy had the hope that what had happened on the Committee on Health or the Family, even what had been expected through all the debates: that those who had sought the reasons for supporting this law had not been sufficiently convincing or had not gathered these arguments, and therefore this law had not been reconfirmed on the Committee. What happened then was more or less clearly shown through the media that this law must be reaffirmed because it is the law of the coalition, because the law, which cannot be continued, is the upgrading of what was in force in the previous period and on the basis of which part of the problems is resolved. It is therefore impossible to accept by the ruling coalition arguments that a non-realistic or non-executive provision in the previous population law could be adopted on those who were also affected by production, even though they did not live in this direct contact or did not work with asbestos to be able to do so with the amendment of the law. After all - three months, as you say, we don't have a marriage anyway, because the 1.1 deadline has already expired. We believe that there is still some hope, and you will be able, above all, to give to those who are aware of what exposure to such influences as asbestos means for each individual, the power to give DeSUS and those in the government coalition who could take into account everything that, for once, obviously could not be taken into account in the debate and in the adoption of amendments and laws at this stage. We also believe that solidarity between citizens and citizens is the one that is also among Members in the first place, and we believe that tomorrow, when the second group is affected, we will do the same. And only by rejecting this law or by reaffirming the veto will we believe that we are serious when we are talking about working for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u408	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich, will you be on your own behalf? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u409	Thank you very much. In a few minutes, she'll say no at midnight. After a transylvanian delivery, a vampire night. What does that mean? I'm not going to go into the details of not having someone tell me again about some pretty-style flossules, but I would like to say at least that we've been hearing about how the state is supposed to take care of citizens, citizens, patients and everyone it needs to do so today. We've heard about the legal definitions, what does that mean, that someone is responsible for the damage, right? What does that mean is that someone is in a factory or in its surroundings, who was against the law, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was not from the State Council and civil society, and who was for, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was for, who was not from, who was for, and who was for, and what was for? I can only say the following in this explanation of voice, which is, of course, against the law again, but it is very non-Schentflorian and non-cancer and unusual. But in this place, I bow to my colleague the primacy, the doctor, the Vice-President, the member of DeSUS, the Master of the Upstanding Stand, which has cost a lot of nerves and probably also a lot of political effort and his future for what he will do today with his vote. I am proud to have such people as the Master of Klavor in our Parliament, and therefore, and even more so, I will vote against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u410	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u411	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This law also comes during the period of shaman treatment. Mr. Minister apparently said: on this side of the border, on this side of the fence you are sick at home, on the other hand you are healthy at home, like holy Satan Gregorius Razputin. He's such a healer. He said on the phone, you're not sick, and people are cured. I don't know if she has that kind of power, so she made an effort to prove that these people are sick and deserve the treatment that he proposed in the amendments to part of the opposition as well as part of the position. The coalition MPs, who are experts, have told you nothing; the affected citizens have begged, but nothing; the minister proposes and will Pilately wash his hands, as the National Assembly has accepted this, because this is not my law. I'm just suggesting it. Why did you accept it? Mr. Minister, look up there, in the eyes of those people who came here. I can always look at them. This also applies to Members. Mr. Vasja, the sun won't go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u412	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u413	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. During today's debate on this law, I have heard a lot of nonsense about this law about measuring political power. Dear coalition colleagues, the result will show how barren your strength is. You brought people here today sick, on leave, just to get the law you want through. So barren is your political power. If I move on - the reasons why I can't support this marriage. The environmental aspect has already been mentioned by my fellow Member, Happy Friend. Are the children who went to kindergarten who were covered with an asbestos roof to blame for going to these kindergartens? I guess I don't. Finally, the law provides for two ways to identify asbestos disease, as I mentioned in the debate. The first way is to put someone in a disability and place them in a pension. Another way is that where it is not yet for retirement, but it is qualified for another job, where it will not be influenced by asbestos, but companies dealing with asbestos or asbestos cannot provide this work, so we simply send these people to the stock market, where we wait for their unfortunate end. Today, too, the debate has repeatedly raised or raised the question of who is ringing the bell. The people who are with us today are ringing the bells, the bells of life are ringing for you. And as you like to point out, you will vote with your head. Look up before you vote, then you'll vote with your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u414	Thank you. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u415	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Member of Parliament, I would like to state my position. By means of legal solutions, we extend the range of beneficiaries to all who have come into contact [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u416	On behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u417	So, yeah, in contact with asbestos in the workplace. [[...]] In our Group of Members, we are convinced that the law is already good because of this and is better than it is now valid. I am confident that you will be able to use it, who have been following us on the Tribunals for practically all day, and I believe that you have not yet been entitled to the solution of the current law. The veto of the Council of State merely distorts the established rights that have been vested in workers since 1996 but have not been properly enforced. We must also be aware of this in the National Assembly when we vote on this law again today. The rights that go to sick workers for asbestos should not be denied to workers regardless of where they were employed, and this law regulates these matters. For this reason, it is necessary to renew the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos. In our view, the bill, which we reaffirm, has the right solutions for those who have become sick, as well as for companies that are or may still be in a difficult situation. In New Slovenia we will propose and also ensure that the solution to this problem continues. We are also aware of other issues such as asbestos pipelines, saloon cover and other asbestos in the environment. We are convinced that this must be resolved by special law, not by the proposed legislation. However, it is important that we first tackle the rights of those most exposed, and these are workers. That is why we will once again support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u418	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u419	I'll vote against the law, too. There is a lot of talk about expressing a voice that this marriage has something good and something bad; what is bad is supposed to be corrected later that the marriage is better than the previous one and so on. If those to whom this law is intended today expect not to be supported, it means that the marriage is weak. We haven't had an audience yet to make it to our hall by midnight. And everyone's expecting to see if there's a number 45 or 46 on the board. I believe it'll be the best payment to have them stay with us until this hour if the 46s aren't on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u420	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u421	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Despite the late hours, I would like to speak on this subject and within the framework of my decision on the vote. From the point of view of the time dimension, we do not gain much if the law falls, but we do things new or if we complete it with corrections, with a novel that would bring in additions and changes. I must say that I have a great problem with not being sure that the introduction of rights for all those exposed to asbestos as unemployed in working with asbestos would satisfy the expectations of all those affected. I took a lot of time and I was shocked in that sense. Expectations are always high and people expect to be realized. If not, then dissatisfaction is complete and power, or the legislator or the one who is supposed to save matters has done nothing. This is simply not true, the law is better than nothing, saves a certain extent of the affected in a broader sense, not only in Anhove, but also elsewhere: in Maribor, Ljubljana and more. We also have retired in the area of Trebnje. I think that the law is not perfect because I do not agree with the concept, I will not support it, but we will do everything possible to complete it below in the hope that this greatest flaw will solve the problem, which I have begun to doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u422	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u423	Thank you very much. Explain first. Even so far, the law has provided an opportunity to settle damages for other persons, not just those who were employed in Salonit Anhovo. In addition to Salonita Anhovo, there were 8 persons from Termika, 5 from Donit, 22 from Svat and 21 from other employers. Those who are constantly selling lies, please know that lying is very cheap and has short legs. The other thing I'd say is. Despite the incredible pressures that some members of the coalition have experienced in order to support this law in spite of everything, although they are deeply convinced that it is not valid to do well and that it needs to be done again, they have decided to act on their conscience and conviction. Some, however, will support the marriage because of different pressures and the price they must pay because they are in the hands of some. Let their own conscience judge them. I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u424	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u425	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If we are talking about the time that is supposed to be important in the adoption of this law, then it is fair to say that the coalition has recently rejected a law that would have extended the regulation of this problem, as has been the case over the past decade. So don't believe it, not those who listen to it, not those who say it to themselves. That's the kind of marriage that was here. He was rejected, and it was said that he would come more comprehensively. Today we have a more comprehensive law with which no one, except the top of the coalition, is satisfied. It'd be good to throw it away. If I had fallen last time, we could have a new decision today at the end of the meeting. So much for time. That's why there's so much, I'll say, a question of prestige and more hypocrisy. I simply can't believe my colleague Testen can say that he will support this marriage because he is confident that they will invest in one another in DeSUS and that he will save some things. It's hypocrisy. And there's something else I need to say. We have fallen very deeply to praise here the man who is voting on his conscience. That's what everyone's supposed to do. I'm more sorry for those of you who can't vote on your conscience. First, colleagues from Soča, Goriška and Vipavska and, of course, everyone else. Thank you very much. I will vote, of course, against.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u426	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u427	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to follow the rules of procedure, so I'll tell you how I'm going to vote. I will support this law because, with all compassion for asbestos patients, I wish these patients well and do not want to harm them. This is because the text of the new law brings better solutions than the existing law. I will support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u428	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u429	Thank you very much. The law that we are re-declaring in the National Assembly is a good law, according to the concept and purpose for which it is built, and I will back it up again. But not because anyone would pressure me. My dears, I have also made my decision in the previous coalition according to my conscience, so I have been constantly labeled by all of you who today pretend to be sitting in two chairs. And like the top of this heavy mountain [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Be quiet because I'm talking, Mr. Anderlich! Please! I want to say my voice. That the crown was perfect, you banished us for your own news from the coalition, my dears. Don't bother with that, but don't defend Mr. Klavora, because I'm deeper inside him, and I know how honest my husband is. So again, the law is good. The only thing we can do for this law is to enforce it as soon as possible. The second is the question that is open, which this law cannot solve with context and purpose, not with change, but with a new law. And I expect this government to do the same, either with a new law or on a different legal basis, to settle what some people are dumping on ashes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u430	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u431	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, it has been said here that health is a value, and I am sure that we can agree with that for all who are in this Hall. At the same time, unfortunately, life is so determined that we realize it only when our health is affected or lost. Today, through the content of this law, we decide the fate of people who, in my opinion, have not lost this health because they would know that they are exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos. They were exposed to asbestos in their workplaces or exposed to asbestos dust in the asbestos area. And, of course, today I wonder, I would mention only one solution that this law does not bring - to all those who were ignorantly exposed to asbestos because they did not know about all the harmful effects, and they got sick. The consequences of asbestos sickness are tragic and my dilemma, why I cannot support this law, is that we share this law with those who have suffered from asbestos exposure, and before that we do not know or know it, and we share those who will have and will be entitled to rights under this law and those who will not receive these rights. Of course, I will not support such injustices and the wrongfulness of such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u432	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u433	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. I believe that the law is written on the basis that asbestos particles stop at the border fence, and let us put it under the assumption, the factory and the environment. I think this assumption is wrong, I think it's an illusion with which individuals in this national council are blindfolded. One of the possible serious arguments why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is promoting such a law, which I think is bad for all those who will be diagnosed with asbestososis in the future, is a lack of funding. At the same time, the minister has pointed out several times that the state should not have the money to pay the damages. Despite the fact that, according to my assessment, there have been many positive arguments, especially the quality arguments, which have been used to say that these cases will not be largely due to the professionalism of the medical profession, but it is important to point out that most of the Slovenian local communities or municipalities are paying compensation for the deposit. They provide compensation for landfills in the 100, 200, 300 meters belt and this municipality, of course among them the municipality of Maribor, do not wonder whether this is bad for their budget or not, but the point is elsewhere. Local communities provide compensation to residents living near the landfill. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is afraid to grant compensation to people who have suffered from asbestososis. I don't think that's right, so of course I won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u434	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u435	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What we have not warned the Members of the sea, but what needs to be said is the conclusion of the Club of Maritime Members. The conclusions of the Maritime Members Club say that it is necessary to give absolute support to all expert opinions concerning asbestos patient unions, asbestos patients' society, in fact the chambers of commerce and these people have also been invited to this meeting of the Coastal Members' Club. They told us what was wrong with the law and what the government had promised to fix in 2004, when we extended the law in 2005. Unfortunately, this did not happen in 2005 for 2006. And we owe these people essentially what is lawful to them, not just a word, you are equal before the law, if anything is wrong with you, go to court and sue. This is what we wrote down in this message and this law. And, of course, it is irresponsible of us here to know that we need, according to the president of the labour force, some other law that would fully regulate it. That's not true. We just can't land on this, it's demagogy. I am a maritime Member myself, and I also appeal to the other Members of the sea to truly vote in accordance with their conscience and their conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u436	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u437	I will vote against the law, because if we had the right solutions, we would not have a full gallery today. Here is a group of those we decide about and, of course, this one feels that the law is not appropriate. I don't even know what's wrong with this marriage anymore. Rights, public funds, the scope of rights, a scheme yet to be defined? Public funding is not a problem, because if it were a problem, then New Slovenia would not have advocated that 20 billion interest payments should be paid to those who received denationalisation bonds. Public funding is not a problem, because if it were a problem, then Mr. Janša would not be able to build a luxury office from which he commands your conscience. And, of course, public funds are not a problem, because Mr Janša has earmarked 30 billion for defence and other matters. In Novi Slovenije and in SLS, some say that you will propose a new law, rescue asbestos pipelines and so on. But it's purely scheming. It mentions the familiarity of being good here, because it will be better for you in that world. For a while any authority may deceive many people, but it is not possible to deceive all people in the long run. And if in this national assembly we were able to decide on life and death issues on our conscience, then today the result should not be a question at all. This is how we separate ourselves about the issues that concern people in this gallery. And that's bad, and that's Mr Janš's bad policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u438	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 36. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - re-decision on the law on changes and additions to the law on war veterans. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Run, please, on behalf of the messenger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u439	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our understanding of the bill's proposal, which simply means that in the coming years, 15% to 20% will be reduced by the next year's share of funds for the association of NOB fighters' associations. The Minister did not feel worthy to speak, he did not feel worthy to dissuade our statements and to say that it is not true that the funding system will be maintained as it is, vice versa. In the coalition you decided to talk about the privileges that now exist, you warmed your view of history, and you expected us all to have the same view of it. Nor was the coalition able to overcome some of the heated debates and provocations, but it embarked on a debate in the same way and thus proved that it is not about reconciliation, that it is not capable of reconciliation, but that it only sharpens and wants to exercise its interests. For this reason, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the law cannot be supported. We have tried to find common ground and compromise in other solutions to war laws, and we are not sorry that we have done so. We acted in harmony with our beliefs because we knew that changing decisions every day or every hour could not achieve a common solution. However, I would like to inform you that, in view of today's debate on the law on war veterans, you can expect us to sit back and see if your vote on the law on war veterans in the parliamentary group, even in the case of harmonised content, is really a possibility and a hope that you are serious about whether you want to exercise only your interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u440	Thank you. Mr Barovic, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u441	On my own behalf, Mr. President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I'm asking you to listen to us, not talk in the wall. I would like to point out that there is a likelihood of a violation of Article 18 of the Constitutional Law. I would like to point out that we are talking about the moral values of what happened. I would like to point out that I am grateful to this government that it has undertaken this law, that in this law it has extended moral and material rights to those people who have contributed to the independent country of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this law is wonderful if we do not violate his rights, the rights of people who have also given their lives in another period. In any case, the anti-Nazi and anti-fascist coalition won over the world at some point. And there were also the people we are talking about today and for whom we ask you to leave them alone and to abide by article 18 of the Constitutional Law. Let us give everyone else the rights that go with them. For once for all those who have given their lives so that we live well today, that our children live well. Let's give them at least one moral confession. It is immoral on our part to take somewhere to give others what some others have done. That's not true. We've all created what we have today. Let us be for the law or against the law, I conclude, against the law, as it is, and correct it with the injustices that we have done to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u442	Thank you. Mr. Grimes. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u443	Thank you for your word. Look, all that has to be said about one organisation that will now be equal to all others has already been said, and I will not repeat this in the light of the late hours. We just want to answer the obvious that there is too much room for veterans when it comes to the war on Slovenia. Let me illustrate this with an event from Kranj. There, on the barricade, where I was alone with a gun, a civilian, employed by a Cranian road company, was blocking outside the barracks road. The whole JLA army patrol comes back with heavy weapons, they even point automatic rifles at them, a man calmly turns the engine on the patrol, they rehearsed, they move against them. Not to be long, the end of the story was, the whole JLA patrol of heroes with heavy weapons, machine guns, I don't know what they used to do in front of a crowd of people, the whole bunch of witnesses were for this event, they got back in the car in a panic run, they drove behind him, and the chief of the royal road down by the bus station, because they couldn't shoot him through the guard's dam, and he had so many spines that he could press the gas right moment. And with all my responsibility, I claim that such a person has certainly earned that he is a veteran of war for Slovenia, just like many others who are now breast-feeding. If it seems too much to anyone, let me warn you that I know quite a lot of people who have been carrying weapons throughout the war for Slovenia, but after the law has passed, they were not, as he put it, entitled to veteran status. That's both, I have to say, really hard to understand. I hope and I am sure that this completely abolishes the new law. However, if it turns out that this hole also has a hole and that it does not cover all those who have really actively participated and put their lives at risk, then I am sure that another amendment will be needed. As it is, I'll be happy to support it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u444	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u445	On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr President. See, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Veterans Act has two questionable works. One part is the extension of rights, as you say, but I consider them more a cornerstone, and the other part is the abolition of the law on the financing of the union of national liberation fighters. The law is bad for both reasons. The first is because it again limits and does not take into account all options. He was prepared quickly, perhaps even in an agreement with which already within the veteran organisation of the wars for Slovenia are covered and, of course, they are not up to anyone else coming. We know there are such aspirations. The second part, however, is the abolition of the law on the financing of associations of fighters, which is also constitutionally questionable. The constitutional law for the implementation of the fundamental Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia has already provided special protection for national liberation fighters. The thing that is most controversial, however, is that all these veteran organisations are not equal, but completely equal, of course, with the full discretionary right of the minister to decide how much one will give, how it will give, when it will give it, why it will give it. It's called poof. And it's a mortal sin, as you know. I think that the National Assembly, the 90 of us, must not allow anyone to give such a strong right to anyone from the executive branch, it is said that he can, without any control of this matter, handle and decide on them. We even know how he'll decide because he's already made that decision. This is a thing, of course, that goes far beyond what we call democracy. Therefore, fellow Members, take your mind into your hands, your conscience, and you think there will ever be another minister with such power in this place. Of course, I don't trust that either, and I won't trust anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u446	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have had a number of comments on the war veterans' law, because by spreading the fog of borders between those who had the greatest credit in the war for Slovenia and those who had less credit and those who would like to have credit for the rights that are all the same. Unfortunately, our comments in this respect have not been taken into account, but we will support this law, because it is necessary to create the conditions for the status of war veterans of the species listed within and, in our firm conviction, they are also entitled to this. Of course, we are not satisfied that the Minister has a discretionary right to finance veteran organisations, but the Constitutional Court will, as promised, not worry about the law on financing the union of NOV fighters. We will respect the Constitutional Court's decision, however it may be. Of course, it would suggest that a law on the financing of veteran organisations be drawn up in the future, which will probably take a long time. We have also expressed our concerns about support for this law to the Prime Minister, who has ensured that the change in the financing of the veteran organisation will not affect the level of funding for the fighting organisation. In this sense, we want to say that we reject the allegations and accusations from either side in the sense that we do not respect the NOB fighters, because that is not true, we respect the NOB fighters and are proud of them. We also respect the war veterans in the war for Slovenia and we are proud of them. Our relationship to these two questions will always remain as it must be. We will look calmly into each other's eyes. Thus, with the assurance that the union of fighters will not have enough money for us to settle this law or not, we do not intend to argue, but in particular in this sense we are disappointed that the debate on this subject has gone far from the point itself in terms of mutual perceptions and the endless repetition of the same things that we have heard 20 times, so to speak, in exactly the same form. From this point of view, we are in favour of rationality to bring the law forward, to enter into force. If anyone has any problems in this regard, he will be able to file a new one and we will decide again whether anything is better than what will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u448	Thank you. Mr. Capuder. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u449	Thank you very much. In Novi Slovenija, we could only agree with the veto of the State Council at a point when they believe that, following the amendment of this law, the number of beneficiaries of the status of war veterans from the 1991 war on Slovenia is too widespread. On the other hand, the circle of beneficiaries after this amendment of the law extends to those beneficiaries who were released from the previous amendment of the law for any reason in 1999 and who were completely unjustifiably released. The law currently in force does not deal with several categories of beneficiaries who actively participated in the defence of the country during the aggression against Slovenia, including with arms in hand. These were, say, prison guards, customs officers, and they'd find someone else. It is also unable to maintain the claim of the State Council, and this was the main reason for the veto voted that the termination of the law on the financing of the union of fighters would no longer have the resources provided for its operation. They will receive funds under the same conditions and under the same criteria as all other comparable companies in the public interest. We are confident that individuals who are veterans of the types of fighters will continue to have the recognition of all the rights they have already been granted, and that in no case will they be in breach of Article 18 of the basic Charter, by which the rights of the fighters have been guaranteed. The rights and duties of a society or organisation will, however, be equal to or equal to those of other societies recognised as having the status of a society or organisation in the public interest. And that seems fair to us. The criteria for the allocation of funds are very clear and also the opinion of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly has been very clear on this point, namely that the Minister will be able to specify the criteria only on the basis and in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 1 of the Act. In Novi Slovenije we do not see any need for the organization of NOB fighters to have a different and more privileged status against other veteran societies with recognised status of society in the public interest. In New Slovenia, we will once again support the amendment of the war veterans law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u450	Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't see the minister. He doesn't seem to be interested in the subject. Still, why are we moving around? In this package you have nicely put two very popular topics, especially the first one is liked when you extend rights to war veterans, and at a small door you stop funding for the fighting association. In doing so, the Government is in fact consciously violating the basic Charter and is essentially amending the documents on which the Republic is based today. Of course, you don't care about that in the ruling coalition. The length to the diaspora is large, somewhere in Argentina, Australia. First, it is necessary to stop funding for those who are still able to write down and write down the rules of history and then allocate large financial resources to those whom you think are the saviors and have signed a coalition with the invader somewhere outside of Bežigrad. These are, of course, patriots, who are also heard of incarceration in the National Assembly. It's embarrassing what you're doing. It is also shameful that this National Assembly does not respect the Constitution and that it is almost a regular practice in this National Assembly to adopt a law that is contrary to the Constitution. In the meantime, the EU declarations, which are written with your left hand, sing as holiness and legal science and refer to this as a matter of every opportunity to be implemented into our legislation. What you're doing today, you're probably going to vote on this, you're going to disregard the veto of the state council, you're going to be an additional disgrace to the government. For a government that advocates fascism, of course, and not the anti-fascist coalition on which Europe is founded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u452	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u453	How would you understand that, on the one hand, you hear that there will be no reduction in funds for a fighting organisation and that we will therefore support the law in a coalition party, but it is clear that there are less than 72 million in this year's budget. And you're talking about equalizing rights. No, they're not even, but one organization is going down. It's a substantial difference. It's not an equation. It's annihilation. You can just believe it. So you were convinced that you believed that there would be no deterioration in the situation. That's not gonna happen. I am not discussing what is questionable to some about the dissemination of rights and so on. Of course, it is only questionable because they fear that that part of a retired or reactivated generation might be affected. That's the problem. Not in the work of just spreading unjustifiablely somewhere else, but in order to stay for those less. I have already spoken in the previous law about double morals, specific positions in this congregation. But what bothers me is that I'm dealing with two Squires, one of them says the allies were running an ugly, ugly policy during the war in Slovenia. The other Petty Officer says that, of course, by passing the money on the basis of the criteria that he will make, he will turn, he will do what he has to do to reverse the history that he will tell by making the patriots a true army and partisan ordinary criminals. And that, of course, is wrong and I will therefore vote against the law again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u454	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u455	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I'll vote against the law myself. The reasons for the adoption of the law, the status of a war veteran, shall be ensured to persons who, in the military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, performed their duties in its defence as members of the bearers' defence forces. Two reasons why I can't support this marriage. The first reason is the customs officers, those who first stood in the defense of Slovenia. The second reason why I cannot support this law is certainly the denial of national liberation fighters in Slovenia. Without them, Slovenia alone would not be available today. Last but not least, given the existing ruling coalition, you'd probably prefer the money you took from national liberation fighters to some belogardist garrison. You know, the whites weren't dicks and not mice, they were calculators who had a little bit on one side and a little bit on the other. It's a shame you're covering up history. White guys, I repeat, they weren't dicks and they weren't mice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u456	Thank you. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u457	Thank you, President. Of course, I regret that the previous veto failed also because the President of the Slovenian National Party did not help, he voted in favour of the law. I hope this doesn't happen this time and the veto will succeed this time. I'm going to repeat what I used to give when there weren't so many of you in the hall. If you pass on to the supporters of this law that I will become a veteran of the war for Slovenia, that is, among the most deserving, that we have become an independent state, of course support the law and I expect, as colleague Žnidaršič said, that you will also be proud of my actions at the time of independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u458	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u459	Thank you. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Veterans Act establishes the equality and equivalence of all war veteran organisations and eliminates the privileges of only one of them so far. It is not right that only one organisation had a better and higher priority than all other such organisations. And in this respect, they have been discriminated against. Notwithstanding the fact that some discussers have justified the current privileged status of this organization, all of which have been justified by the resurgence of the memory and traditions of the national liberation struggle, all of which cannot outweigh the most important argument in the implementation of this law. This is the creation of equality before the law of all equivalent organisations. The exclusiveness of advocates of the current regime and supporters of the State Council veto is also shown by the fact that these advocates do not consider it to be a masquerade if those who may be sons or even grandchildren to actual partisans are recruited into the partisans. However, all those who do not politically belong to their circle are prohibited from attending events in the memory of the national liberation struggle, if their participation is a disgrace. Very cultural and tolerant. We do not need such privileges and exclusivity, so it is right to re- back up the law and I will do it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u460	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u461	Thank you very much. I will not support the law, especially because I have just heard that this law was not intended at all to include those veteran wars for Slovenia, which have been unjustly or otherwise omitted, but was essentially a fundamental and fundamental objective of abolishing the financing of the union of fighters and abolishing the special status of this union of fighters. No one has ever said that it would not be possible to include in this law because we have a special law on associations of fighters in order to include veteran wars for Slovenia in this law. Who says that's not possible? Why could not the union of veterans of war for Slovenia be aligned with the special law in the same marriage with the union of fighters. No, no, no. The goal of the coalition, which you hate only the thought that the partisans have liberated Slovenia and laid the groundwork for us to be able to discuss and discuss here today, is that whatever its roots in partisanism must be destroyed and conditioned, and that is your primary objective. And we just heard that with a clear and uncompromising explanation. That is why I believe that, Mr Sok, I think that you will say yours when the time is right, I have the right to say mine. And that's why I think it's also overturned that the one who advocates the most partisans or national liberation struggle has done his dirty work with the asbestos law first, and now he's squeezing his tail between his legs and he's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u462	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u463	On behalf of the Group of Members. I'm on my own first.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u465	I think that also colleagues and colleagues who think at this moment as in the Slovenian National Party are proving that now to speak, everyone has his own head, each of them has its own decision. [[...]] The explanation for the vote, however, is an explanation of the vote for this law, not where the colleague is or is not. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not fair, and it's going right there. You've repeated such a story many times today. Let's leave, I'll stick to the law. I say again, let's listen to each other, we don't talk in the wall. Let's just tell ourselves the truth. Once again, I respect the government's commitment to the law and respect the government that it has now included among veterans all those who have earned it, especially in the self-serving war. But I don't know, once again, I don't know, there's no reason why she got involved in the taking of rights and violations of article 18. If we did not touch this, colleagues and colleagues, this law would have been adopted long ago and all the injustices would have been erased and corrected if they had been, for all those who fought for Slovenia alone. That's the point of this marriage. He takes justice and violates the constitutional law at the expense of the praise of someone else who truly deserves it. And that's right. And I respect, once again, Minister, that's the right thing to do. But why take the rights on the one hand to put them on the other side, because we are not on the market, because we have no weight, we cannot have morality and we cannot have actions on the weight, colleagues and colleagues! Everyone's given their contribution, their blood, their lives, so once again, I'm gonna say that we're having a great time here today. Even if we're 14 or 15 hours away, we're warm and safe. And we can say everything we think, thank God. Respect this, we can say what we think. But history can't be made up again, history has told and shown its own. Have, however, ladies and gentlemen, once so much power, let us put an end to these bad laws, cast this law and make a new one that will be fair to all. We don't want anything else, and we don't want to be impatient for another 200 years, because we have our children who have to live their new life on. Let's be reasonable. Let's throw away this law. Let's write a new one that'll be honest with everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u466	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u467	I will do this on my own behalf, Madam President. Dear fellows and fellows! Of course I'll vote against it. The reason is considerable, but above all it seems to me that the law was basically written to rekindle disputes within the Slovenians, even within the national assembly. Some things have been relatively well done, but there is always something to be done with each law, something that goes beyond the Constitution, which bypasses it, which in some ways devalues and devalues Slovenian decisions in 1990 and 1991. If you are really as brave today as you pretend to be, where were you in the 1980s when the union of fighters was strong, powerful, even rude, when members were doing a lot of things after this Slovenia? Where were you then? Who resisted them then? You're not the kind of civil movement that you're making fun of today. Today, when they're old, they're gone, and you're getting on top of them. Of course, it's not worth a man. And also your smile, Mr. Secretary, is not in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u468	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 33. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to the last one, 25. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Protection Act, Third Amendments to the Emergency Procedure. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments that we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on the bench. In view of the fact that no amendments have been adopted to the second reading of the draft law at the meeting, it is possible, in the third reading, to submit amendments only to the transitional and final provisions of the law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. In the light of the above, the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1 is irrelevant. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the four coalition groups and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go. Procedural proposal, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u469	Mr President, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, all amendments to the said law, which is now under final procedure, should not be brought into consideration. Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also speaks of amendments under the second reading. We are not currently at second reading and it is not possible to amend the bill. I'm sure everyone who's following this is aware of that. This has been pointed out to you so yesterday in the context of the agenda item that the proposal for a law can only be implemented within the framework of an existing dictatorship. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to take account of Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure if you respect the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, since this provision applies to the second reading. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has again missed out and is trying to solve this delay through the way in which the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are sedated. Personally, I am very sorry that the President of the National Assembly again succumbed to this. However, whoever looks at the provisions of the Rules of Procedure from Article 126 onward and Article 125 onward will see that Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure applies to the second reading of the proposal. Mr President of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to convene a college, because the matter which you have put in the form of amendments to the decision-making process is completely at odds with the rules of procedure. At the same time, allow all of you who have accompanied the convening of the sitting and you have probably noticed that even under the reference of the meeting, there was only one written, that is, the vote on the law, not the vote and the debate on the amendments. In this way, the National Assembly, the leadership of the National Assembly, and above all the professional services, have attached the correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you have just heard. Mr President, on behalf of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, respect the rules of procedure and say that all amendments, both amendments coming from the Slovenian National Party and amendments coming from four government parties, are unjustified and must not be discussed. All Members and Members of Parliament have been informed of this at the time of the adoption of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u470	We all know that the problem of the transitional provision was caused by the interruption of work on this law or by the two-month delay that arose, and this delay was resolved by the Constitutional Court in that the proceedings continue without complications. The meaning of Article 132 is quite clear that if changes occur either by amendment or as many as possible, a transitional provision should be amended, this can be done. If you consider it necessary, I would suggest that the legislative and legal services provide an explanation. [[Back-up advertising.]] Have you made a procedural proposal yet? Do you have another procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u471	Mr President and all the other Members and Members of Parliament, I believe it is a late hour, but I do not think that this is an argument why we would violate the Rules of Procedure and why we should adopt legislation that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and to legal democracy or legal practice in this house. 132. Article 2 is the second argument why we should not take into account the amendments which have been, excuse me, but the hand on the heart, which has been extremely lazily made by the ruling majority. Article 2 does not fall within either the final or the final provisions, as referred to in Article 132. I would adopt an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, or perhaps a recommendation by Mr Plevell, if it were the first or the last one, and the amendment to Article 2 would not touch, for the first time, the transitional and not, for the second time, the final provisions of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the late hours, we will think about what we accept. This must not become a practice of the National Assembly. Mr President, stop this debate, and by tomorrow, consider what the legal services have advised you not to see this national assembly again before the situation in which it was in January. At this point in time, I continue to tell you whether, with or without the support of the Slovenian National Party, if such decisions are taken in this National Assembly, there will, of course, be a law mentioned, which I have no doubt will be adopted, as you have this power, subject to a number of opinions. This will, of course, be subject to an assessment of the credibility of this national assembly, which in this case is in very strict violation of its own rules which we have adopted in this national assembly. Mr President, at the time that I still have, I will quote you in Article 132, the second paragraph of which you mentioned and which, if we want to follow the rule of law, we cannot hold: "The restrictions in the preceding paragraph do not apply to amendments which are submitted to the transitional and final provisions of the transitional law." Whoever has looked at the amendments today, the amendments of the ruling majority see that they are not acceptable to transitional or final provisions. Mr President, I hope that you will take account of the fact that you will make a consultation of the groups of Members. I believe that this is possible tomorrow before the meeting or today, thank you, colleague Barovic, the National Party will ensure its participation, of course respect the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-28-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u472	Here, Mr. Pache, there are two things. It's about, and it's about everything, it's about content that's of a transitional nature. Whether it is in another article or a specific article. A transitional provision is a transitional provision which does not necessarily have to be drawn up in its own article. This is the case in the second article, but it is a transitional provision. However, if you think that the opinion of the legal service here should also be needed, then I suggest that we move this point to tomorrow, which is that I will make a procedural proposal, because there have also been some comments about why we are working so late. I am making a procedural proposal, as proposed by Mr Pece, to deal with this point tomorrow after the end of the 30th. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I am putting this procedural proposal to the vote in order to end the meeting, and this item is dealt with tomorrow after 30 a.m. Who's in? We will first vote on Mr Pece's procedural proposal. That's my suggestion. You didn't make such a procedural proposal. You've only opened the question, just the problem. The colleges are not competent to decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure. I am re-voting this procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. I hereby adjourn the 15th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
