ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Anton Anderlič, only Bevk from 3 p.m. on, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Aurelio Juri, Bojan Kontič from 6 p.m. on and Marjetka Uhan. Before we move on to the 16th item on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Transport at yesterday's meeting has not completed its consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on rail transport, which is why this law cannot be addressed today by the National Assembly. In this regard, the Presidents will today, in the context of the 74th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, propose to the Assembly that the debate and decision on that proposal be postponed to one of the following meetings. Please take note of the above when I inform you that the National Assembly of this title will proceed to the vote at 6 p.m. and 30 minutes. And we're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF THE REPORTS OF THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE OF AGRICULTURE COUNTRIES AND THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2004. I would like to inform you that we have an estimated time of 2 hours and 55 minutes for this point. The report was submitted to the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council and I give the floor to Dr. Maria Oswald, President of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the supplementary explanation of the proposed text. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I agreed to the report today because of the continuity of the work, or my predecessor, Dr Vojtic, who was Chairman of the Supervisory Board until mid-2005, should have done the job. The position of the then Supervisory Board prior to the Court of Auditors’ findings was that the accounts, except in the part relating to the situation of agricultural land and forests, provided in all respects a true picture of the financial situation of the Fund, although in 2004 they were transferred to the Fund over 6,000 hectares of agricultural land, the transfers have not yet been fully realized, which makes it impossible to accurately supplement the actual asset situation with which the Fund is managed on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, the Supervisory Committee noted that the Fund was carrying out its tasks under the statutory provisions that the Fund had concluded in 2004 with a surplus of EUR 555 million in expenditure, that the Fund had a fund of more than 150000 contracts for a few more than 64,000 hectares of land, that lease contracts had been concluded in accordance with the Agricultural Lands Act, that, in individual cases, neither the purchase nor the sale of agricultural land to which the Supervisory Board had worked in detail were natural and legal persons, in view of the documentation available, it did not establish unlawful practices. For 2004, the Supervisory Committee highlighted the following facts: that the Fund has a comprehensive view of land management through the use of modern technical and technological tools; that the Fund is in the final phase of implementing the forest and forestry certification system for concessionaires; that the Fund has not fully aligned its business with the Public Information Access Act by the end of 2004. It was then contradictory to point out that the Supervisory Board had failed to verify the legality of the Fund’s operations by the end of the mandate, which led the Court of Auditors to immediately approach a thorough review of the Fund’s operations due to the suspicion that there were irregularities in all segments of the operation. The Court of Auditors’ audit, which found for 2003 and 2004, at a value of SIT 1,5 billion errors and irregularities, followed by a detailed description of the individual events and finding that the Fund was operating in a non-economic and ineffective manner in individual business transactions, in particular when the agricultural land sold at a price, did not place all agricultural land on the lease, the agricultural land sold free of charge and charged low rents, the land envisaged for the building, sold at disproportionate low prices and direct contracts, invested the purposes that did not constitute investments in improving agricultural land and forests, unjustifiably recognised the costs of the tenants, failed to ensure the execution of public auctions in the sale of timber, did not ensure the establishment of complete land registers, did not enter the agreed property into the land book, did not grant undue recognition of the costs to the purchasers, did not ensure the performance of the public auctions in the supply of the wood system, did not ensure the establishment of the full objectives. The audit report was followed by corrective measures. The Court of Auditors assessed the response report as positive. The valuation was unsatisfactory only in the segment where the difference in revenue over expenditure for 2004 amounted to 470 million in state treasury. I am pleased to report today that this segment has also been eliminated in a series of irregularities and that funds have already been allocated to the budget in the previous month. The current mode of work establishes a supportive environment to implement all the corrective measures envisaged. I would like to mention only a few: the records are regulated; the system method of correcting errors and coordinating actual use is implemented by a project of potential free space under the name of the PPOV [[?]] which is coordinated with the GERK project - graphic records of agricultural land use. This allowed the Fund to cover these data and identify errors in terms of identifying land users who did not have a lease agreement with the fund. The missing contracts for the purchase of business premises were obtained in 1995 and the entry into the land book was made. Procedures for the conclusion of the annexes to the subsequently purchased premises in 2000 have been initiated. The Fund's Council adopted the required missing documents, among them as the most important Fund's development strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you. The report was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Aloise Sok, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Honourable Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the others present! I will report, although I am no longer Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture at this time. As far as this report is concerned, in the past the report has always been considered only by the Committee, adopted a finding, and this time, because of the many controversy that has arisen in the public eye, the Committee has decided differently and has proposed that this report be examined by the National Assembly. Otherwise, the Committee on Agriculture began its consideration of this report on 13 October 2005, referring to the 2004 report. At that time, in October, immediately after the elections, we received a report to the National Assembly on 12 July 2005, a rather bad month after the mandate had expired and a new Supervisory Committee had already been appointed. This led to a minor complication in the National Assembly. The Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, Dr Igor Vojtec - who today, as it has been established, should probably have, I don't know if this is the case, but most likely here - he didn't want to sign the reports for 2004 first, after a certain correspondence between me and then he just signed the report and then he didn't come to the meeting of the committee without an excuse to present this report. Let me say that the report was then presented to the Committee on Agriculture by Dr Mary Oswald, who in particular pointed out two, three entries in this report. One of these is the amount of 556 million Slovenian tolars to be transferred to the State budget by the Agricultural Land Fund. It also drew attention to the fact that funds had been spilled for various purposes within the Fund, as well as to the two decisions adopted by the previous Supervisory Committee in its previous composition, namely, that the Court of Auditors should review the operations of the Fund and the second decision to establish a second audit house for the regular review of the operation of the Fund. As a result of this and some other facts that occurred in public, the Committee decided then to suspend the meeting of the Committee and the consideration of the report and then to continue its work on 13.6.2006, as we received the Court of Auditors' report, which is now also on the table in front of you. The findings of the Court of Auditors are such that our decision to wait for the report was justified. The Court of Auditors has found a number of irregularities, and I cannot present them here now, because then we will run out of time, but even then, after a brief discussion in June 2006 together, we have found that until we have the Court of Auditors' audit report, there is no need for the Committee on Agriculture to have a final hearing. We have thus postponed the meeting until 9 November 2006, when the post-revision report has also come and the Agriculture Committee has finally completed its consideration and adopted its consideration with two final decisions, which you will also decide today and for which you would propose to adopt them on behalf of the Committee. The first decision is: The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, as soon as possible, appropriate amendments to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Agricultural Lands. We have proposed this because both the Supervisory Board in the new composition and the Court of Auditors find that there is a flaw in the founding act itself, whether the Fund acts as a fund or acts as a public institution; and this needs to be regulated by law. And then the second conclusion: The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of shortening concession contracts for state-owned forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. A colleague of Sok has the floor to take the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Then I'm going to move on to that point that I ran out of time for. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would say that we are very pleased that this report was discussed in the National Assembly. He is pleased that the Court of Auditors has found a number of irregularities. If I mention only some: the fund is organised as regional and local exhibits of the Fund, and there is no definition of the scope of area exposure areas in the Fund's documents or statutes, which means that it is in fact a method of work where the regional units do not know what territory they are actually competent to conduct the operations of the Fund. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors has found something that we have found several times in previous reports in the Committee on Agriculture that the records on the Fund's land are still incomplete, that they are not in line with the situation in nature. Due to incomplete and uncoordinated records of the correct state of property owned by the State, there can, of course, be a number of irregularities. And these irregularities also occurred, and the Court of Auditors described them extensively in the part where the Court of Auditors could exercise its control. Of course, it is clear that the Court of Auditors could not exercise control over the entire operation of the Fund, but it did control only a certain part and found a number of errors in that part, especially in our belief due to unregulated records. If the records on the state of property held by the State in this context are not regulated, such errors may, of course, occur. In the past, the Fund has not adopted documents on long-term development plans, which is why the Fund did not have adequate business guidelines; and if there were no business guidelines, then of course it is also possible to imagine why there are many errors in the operation of the Fund. It is very alarming that the Court of Auditors has assessed that the Fund has not provided for transparent, economical, efficient and efficient operations, as it has not established an appropriate financial management system or an internal control and internal audit system, has not adopted guidelines and internal rights for the management of agricultural land, farms and forests and other rules and has not drawn up financial plans in accordance with the rules. The Fund did not prepare annual sales programmes for the real estate of the State with which it operated, as required by this legislation. This is a very critical assessment of the Court of Auditors and such a non-transparent, non-economic way of operating the Fund has, of course, also led us to a situation in which we are at some point in time. Next. The Court of Auditors notes that the 15 concessionaires fund has concluded concession contracts contrary to Article 7 of the Forest Exploitation Regulation of the Republic of Slovenia, since no contract contains a precise definition of the forests for which the concession was granted, nor the lists of forests obtained by concessionaires. So very, I would say, critical for the work of the fund itself, although some say today that the mountain was actually shaking and the mouse was born, but in Novi Slovenija we find these findings very critical for the very functioning of the fund. Of course, it only speaks of 15 concessionaires, I said earlier that the Fund or the Court of Auditors had carried out a certain scope of the business review, but that it could not review the entire operation of the Fund for 2003 and 2004. We are confident that if this could be done, this number of 15 concessionaires would, of course, be significantly higher. Next. The Fund allowed concessionaires in concession contracts to sell timber on the basis of directly concluded contracts and thus avoid public auctions, as required by Article 9 of the concession regulation. This, of course, also gave them much less. Next, as far as the operations of the forest institutes are concerned. In 2003, the Fund entered into a contract with the Institute for Forests of Ljubljana, as always, on preparatory works in state forests. According to this, the institution was in the process of issuing accounts, and these accounts were not specified in anything, and in fact they did not know how much work these accounts relate to. It would not be about jobs and systematisation, because this is actually a problem in many areas, and the fund is no exception as far as this is concerned, but rather in our country as a rule. One of the most recent comments may be that the Fund did not indicate in the final accounts of the expenditure surplus that it should have indicated in the State budget. So, I could mention some other irregularities or even go a little bit into details, but I don't think there is an opportunity for this today, or there is no need, because at that time we can be pleased to find that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, after this Court of Auditors report with corrective measures, all these shortcomings have already been addressed, and lastly, that it has indicated an excess of revenue over expenditure in the State budget. One of the open issues remains, which is not even related to the work of the Fund itself, but it is a matter of our authority, called the National Assembly and the Government, which is the amendment of the Agricultural Land Fund Act. Both the Fund's Supervisory Board and the Court of Auditors find that the Fund, on behalf of the Fund, is operating under the Institutes Act, so this non-compliance will need to be rectified in the short term with the amendment of the law and, if the decisions proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food are adopted today, that is to say, the Government is required to prepare, as soon as possible, an appropriate amendment to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, this error or this mismatch, this lack of transparency in the functioning of the Fund, and Members will have the opportunity to participate actively in the preparation of this Act, especially now that we have before us a report from the Court of Auditors, and when the Court of Auditors reminds us of what it would be necessary to correct in the operation of the Fund. Another issue, which is probably more difficult to implement, is that we have also proposed in the Committee that the Government consider the possibility of shortening concession contracts for state-owned forests. We must say that we have inherited the matter. These contracts date back to the time of the previous Government, the previous governments, have been signed for a 20-year concession period and in these 20 years the best Slovenian forests are allocated to concessional management of forest economies, which are now generally transformed into stock companies. This has, according to New Slovenia's assessment, been a big mistake, since, to a certain extent, our high-rise farmers should also dominate, if we want to keep farms at these altitudes. Again, I say that these forests are managed by forest economies that have changed into stock companies. This is said to have been the case at the time to maintain the status of all employees, including the disabled, but at this point we can critically conclude that both the employees and the disabled have already gotten rid of these forest economies, have been retired on various routes, have reduced the number of employees and so on, and are so completely, as regards this segment, equal to other companies. Whether or not it is possible to shorten these leases or concession contracts in this situation. This should be examined by the Government and, if possible, reduced, then the question is also raised under what conditions. However, it is necessary to settle matters as the Court of Auditors has written in its report and, as is already the case with the Fund, to ensure that wood assortments are not sold directly but are sold at auction. And then the country from this concession relationship will get more money than it gets now. Now this amount is extremely low, a couple hundred million, compared to millions, almost a million of sold cubic metres of forest on an annual basis, and if more resources are obtained from this concessional relationship, then it will be possible to realize what is repeatedly being warned by fellow Member Weber, which is that more money is being spent on the sale of wood for maintenance of forest roads. We in Novi Slovenija agree with this certainly, but first it is necessary to ensure that the concessionaires for the timber sold will also deduct an appropriate amount of money to the country, not that everything is actually going to their cash register or almost everything, but that the country is still supposed to maintain and repair forest roads. This is simply not the case, we have already done this debate in this National Assembly, because, if I am not mistaken, colleague Weber has already tabled an amendment to the Agricultural Land Fund Act himself. However, once this law has been proposed, it will also be necessary to resolve the status of non-walled buildings, then the proportions of municipalities to the fund and also the maintenance of forest roads. We will be very actively involved in the amendment of this law in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, representatives of the Fund, colleagues and colleagues. I just want to say a few words on behalf of our Group of Members. It is true that today, in the National Assembly, we are considering the 2004 Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We usually did it on the Agriculture Committee. I don't think it's wrong for us to say a few words in Parliament about the operation of the Fund. Rompum, which occurred when the Chairman of the Supervisory Boards changed, we now see after a good year that it was actually just rumbling, and there are few things behind it that we can prove. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to say that this was actually a political construct in which the Slovenian People's Party wanted to be drawn and, at that time, the time of the elections, to somehow blacken out. I don't think that worked. Otherwise, the director of the fund was able to give up for health reasons. We all know that the problem with Slovenian agricultural land, both with forests and agricultural processing land, is a problem that we have not been able to solve since the beginning of Slovenia. In particular, I think that there was little or no political will in some segments to settle this issue of Slovenian agriculture in a European comparable way. Even today we record the structure of Slovenian agriculture mainly in terms of the size of Slovenian farms far below the average. And if we only look at this segment of the size of Slovenian farms, it will be difficult for Slovenian farms to be comparable to European farms. It takes political will to understand this matter both in the Government and in the Slovenian National Assembly and to settle it in a European comparable way. I claim that we are at least ten years late on some 30 or 40 years of base. The report, which was presented both by the previous President and by the comments of the current Chairman, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Committee and the response report, as well as the meeting we had as the Agriculture Committee, I do not know if he would comment on all these implementations. I think it's a lack of strategy. I am pleased that current Director Davolio has managed to make a strategy, and his statement, if 25% of this set goal is not possible, will need to be amended by law. I think we will have to think about changing the law and strategy. Here I am sure that this is a national strategy, and I also think that we have written in the Rules of Procedure that the national strategies are adopted by the National Assembly, and I think that, as far as land policy is concerned, we should come to this place and speak here and also adopt a strategy. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that the issue of land policy is a serious matter and what has been going on around this report, I say, and you will probably also attach to me that it has been a matter of discrediting both some of our party's prominent members and the fund's director. He proved these alleged irregularities to be absent or very few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests was established by the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia in order to manage and dispose of agricultural land and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the Fund is committed to denationalisation procedures. The fund management bodies shall be the Board of the Fund, the Director or the Director of the Fund and the Supervisory Board of the Fund. In addition to the above-mentioned management bodies and the Supervisory Board, it is operational in 2004 [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] also the external audit house and Audition d.o.o. Their conclusion for the review of the balance sheet at 31.12.2004 was to show a fair picture of the financial situation of the Fund. A similar finding was also accepted by the then Supervisory Committee. In 2005, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia carried out an audit of the regularity and prudence of the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. In its report of 31 May 2005, this gave an even more negative opinion on the regularity of the operation and also on the effectiveness of the operation of the Fund in 2003 and 2004. The Court of Auditors also requested management to provide a response report. The Court’s response to the Court of Auditors’ findings was swift and effective, so that the new management responded in a timely and effective manner to all 12 requests for corrective action. The Court of Auditors considered them satisfactory. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has also been actively involved in eliminating the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors by preparing amendments to the Agricultural Lands and Forests Act of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite the implementation of all corrective measures, the issue of the Fund's smooth functioning remains open. The Agricultural Land Fund Act in Article 10 states that the surplus of revenue over the expenditure of the Fund must be paid into the State budget. In accordance with the request for a response report, the Fund has already indicated this difference in the state budget. However, the operation of the Fund itself will be blocked in the first months of the new year due to this requirement of Article 10 of the Law, leaving the fund without liquid assets until the flow of the financial assets of the current operation. Responsible people, in line with the aim of keeping the Fund going as smoothly as possible, continue to seek an appropriate solution. However, we still believe that the functioning of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is adequately remedied after the Court of Auditors' audit and that all conditions for their successful work continue to be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you, too. My colleague, Gez Juban, will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A nice welcome to the Fund's representatives in particular. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we estimate that the consideration of this report at this time in the National Assembly is pointless. We are considering the 2004 report as the first reason. During that time many things happened that were invented or otherwise solved. That the custom of such reports being considered in the National Assembly is unusual. It is true that we expected from the competent institutions, which then monitored the events that were supposed to happen in line, expectations were such that perhaps we would find some alarming things that would have to be saved through the law enforcement authorities, but that did not happen, and today we have a matter on the table that is almost nothing compared to what she promised. The first meeting of the Committee on Agriculture was held on 13 October 2005. Today is the end of 2006. At that time, when the Committee first met this report and alarming cases were supposed to occur, which were mainly related to Kuster's name, it was found at the following meetings that there was nothing to do with these stories and that this was, above all, a conflict in terms of staff clearance within the coalition, and in the meantime, a society that abused this form of discredit, including those of the opposition or anyone else. And it is true that the revision and perhaps the new leadership have brought some warnings that things have been arranged in a way that may have worked differently, but the expectations they have had have not come true, perhaps for their own good. And the first was the Fund's response report, which was that a lot of things were thrown at the Court of Auditors, at the Court of Auditors' findings, and we found that the Court of Auditors had also found things that had not happened. It means that we have also taken note of the Court of Auditors' report and have also considered this document with a reserve. Interesting are the corrective measures that have corrected all errors in six months according to the miracle that happened to congratulate people, if that really happened. But the question is: Is it because the new direction of the fund that all things are going as they should; or can things be done there that are not supervised and that will be permitted to someone? I'm asking as a question. We have two conclusions before us, to which the members of the Liberal Democracy Club will define each other by their conscience, because perhaps one decision is appropriate and the other can be constitutionally disputed, which is why we will make our own decisions on these decisions. There is a lot of talk about the funds that are being turned over, it is over 500 million, which is being treated differently each day; and also for these funds, the current Government has already decided that these funds should be kept in line, and stories have also been happening according to the wishes of the current Government. Therefore, if ever in the future, such a report should be dealt with in the opposite way as long as matters are up to date. With such a delay as this, and especially because of the events I mention, it seems to me that the treatment of such a report in the National Assembly makes no sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We note from the Social Democrats' Group that it took 13 years to establish the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia to finally have a debate in the National Assembly on the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. This time, the 2004 report is under consideration, as the reports of the Supervisory Committee have raised so many problems that it has not gone to the Committee in any other way than that the Committee has voted in favour of the State Assembly. The key problem is why these problems have arisen in the operation of the Fund and in the functioning of the Fund, and it is certainly also in its status, since it is a para-state fund that operates in parallel with the Government and in parallel with the National Assembly. The fact is that the Ministry has no direct influence and responsibilities in the operation of the Fund, since the National Assembly appoints representatives to the Council of the Fund, the National Assembly appoints representatives of the Supervisory Board and the National Assembly appoints the Director of the Fund. Of course, most of the time, on a proposal from the Government, so, after all, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is the only one who has addressed these reports so far, and it has never been possible to get an accurate view of the operation of the Fund in these reports. It is only the Court of Auditors’ audit report on the regularity and prudence of the operation of the Fund that has definitively justified all these years of the statement that the Fund has not adopted internal rules for the management of agricultural land, without ensuring transparent, cost-effective, efficient and efficient operations. The Fund also did not define the operational works and the extent of the power of its regional exposures. Therefore, it did not carry out any transfer of all agricultural land to state ownership. He did not rent all the land, did not take care to enter the leases into the land book, wrongly accounted for the lease or unjustifiably compensated the lease for the land obtained and did not conclude concession contracts in due time, and did not, lastly, indicate in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia the surplus of revenue over expenditure. All of this has also been the subject of interpretation, which we Members of the Social Democrats have already tabled against the then Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Cyril Smurf. Interpellation was then rejected if the evidence was unfounded. The Court of Auditors or the Court of Auditors’ audit report has, we can say, definitively confirmed those findings that we presented during the interpretation in 1999. At that time, we noted to the Minister that it would allow the Fund to operate illegally, illegally, voluntarily and in the course of the Fund because of the lack of internal rules, there is no proper and fair access to agricultural land and forests, and that there is also a possibility of special exploitation and exploitation on the basis of party interests and alliances. So all of this at the time was the subject of this interpolation, and also the assessment of the State budget damage due to the unregulated situation was almost billions, according to our estimates. That is why, of course, we again welcome the Court of Auditors' review in the Social Democrats' Group today, and that the Committee's decision on agriculture, forestry and nutrition was such that the National Assembly considered this report. However, we are not satisfied with the fact that the report for 2005 has already been discussed, once the Committee has again adopted the conclusion that it is not necessary to consider the 2005 report of the Supervisory Committee at the meeting of the National Assembly. Indeed, the Court’s audit report is satisfactory, but of course it is not definitively resolved in all areas, so in all areas all shortcomings are still not definitively addressed. It is only the fact that the transfer of land to the State under the Fund will continue until 2010 that it is worth a thorough discussion of why the Fund has taken back the period until 2010 to transfer all land to governance and management, or to state ownership. This is an extremely long period, if we know that the Fund has been operational since 1993. It is also a matter of other questions, which are still well-founded to be resolved, such as the agricultural land register, which is supposed to be established, but there are still warnings that it does not ensure that the Fund will establish a record on all land. The long-term development of the Fund is something that has so far been missing in the operation of the Fund, and it would not be too far if the long-term development of the Fund was also addressed within the report of the Supervisory Board by the National Assembly, since it is the far largest area in the Republic of Slovenia or the assets managed by this Fund and the masters, since in 2004 the fund had 15,526 lease contracts on 54,604 hectares of land. In short, it is an extremely large asset with which the fund is managed, and we believe that it would be right for the National Assembly to annually take stock of the long-term development of the Fund and also of the ongoing monitoring of the management of agricultural land and, of course, of the state forests. It is also a whole series of unresolved issues, which in fact remain in the air precisely because the agricultural land record is not likely to be established at least by 2010, as estimated. In fact, all the lands under which the fund is managed and managed are still located in areas of local communities. The fact is, there are no representatives of local communities in the bodies of the Fund. The sale of municipally equipped building plots and from concessions in state forests does not belong to the municipalities part of the compensation belonging to the State, which is why the municipalities in this area are also damaged in the management of these natural goods. It is the only concession in the Republic of Slovenia on natural goods, of which part of the compensation for the exploitation of this natural goods does not belong to the municipality where this income is created even tolar. And in the fact that we are aware that the fund is also a denationalisation committed fund, the National Assembly should also monitor how denationalisation is carried out, because it is in the interests of all of us that denationalisation should be completed as soon as possible. Indeed, the Fund has also become liable to pay compensation for the inability to use land under Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act and longer than it will take to restore land in the process of denationalisation, greater or higher these compensations, which are already beyond the capacity of the Fund in its operations. Therefore, these are questions that will certainly require the National Assembly to deal with this report annually and thus seek to achieve the goal of completing denationalisation as soon as possible, reducing these liabilities to the Fund as possible, and that those obligations which the Fund cannot assume take over from the State and therefore properly shaping its public finances. Of course, we also expect that the fund will indeed cease to operate and manage building land as soon as possible, and if it is already selling this land, that the income of the fund becomes that part of the value of the land that is valued as agricultural land, and the difference to the building land must certainly belong to municipalities that also municipally equip such land and invest their resources in a higher value of land. The fund doesn't even invest tolar in utility equipment, but it sells them expensive. This is also one of the biggest problems in the operation of the Fund, how and how it forms land policy, especially in buildings. Even the least of the problems are with agricultural land; much more problems are faced by the Fund in the sale of building land, which is much more interesting on the market. As I have already said, we expect that in the Committee's decision to propose that the National Assembly should propose to the Government, as soon as possible, to prepare a new Law on Public Funds and to put in place a legislative procedure to set out the main amendments to the Agricultural Land Fund Act, to take these amendments into account, as well, our warnings that there are no representatives of local communities in the Fund's bodies, that the Fund also manages building land, that part of the compensation from concessions should not be charged or reimbursed to the local community. This would certainly lead to a much more realistic picture of the operation of the fund than is guaranteed today. However, we do not necessarily need a decision from the Committee when it proposes to the Government to consider reducing concession contracts for state-owned forests. The fact is that this study has already been tested many times before the Constitutional Court and that this decision does not in fact have any basis for re-examine, which has so far been really studied many times both by the Legislative and Legal Service and by the Constitutional Court. So some of the conclusions adopted by the Committee really took them in a way that was unnecessary because all of this had already been done. As I have said, we also expect a completely different approach to those substantive issues in the functioning of the Fund, which relates mainly to the management of the largest assets that this fund has in its management, and that this management is primarily regulated in an efficient and economic manner, which, of course, also allows the adoption of the relevant rules and not least the government regulations, which is within the power of the Government and which can actually be adopted on the basis of the legislation adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the report and on the draft conclusions. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. How do you do? How do you do? I must say that I too believe it is right that today the National Assembly is considering the report in 2004; I myself would be more pleased if the report were presented by the former President of the Supervisory Fund. However, I must say that I congratulate Dr Oswald precisely for accepting this important and responsible function and for setting up the proper or rather optimistic functioning of the Fund, particularly from the point of view of the Supervisory Board in the future. This, in fact, I must say, also appears on the basis of a post-revision report. I will discuss the Court of Auditors' report myself because, in fact, I am not interested or interested in some of the political controversies that have been said before or that I will not go along with what some of you have previously explained, but precisely because of the Court's report today we are considering this report. The Court of Auditors' report shows which irregularities were present in 2004 in the operation or operation of the Fund, and I would particularly like to talk about economics and transparency. You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, here we have to admit that from this point of view it really worked purely domestically. I am very surprised, given the many times I see in the Court of Auditors' report on the functioning of individual municipalities on economic activity or in most cases on non-economic activities. But you know, I can't actually imagine that some Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests worked like this in 2004. Okay, some little congregation with a bad frame, I kind of understand that. But as you know, most local communities also received a negative opinion when they visited the Court of Auditors. On the basis of a post-audit report prepared on the basis of a response report, however, I must say that I am optimistic about future action. For the present management has prepared a response report at a level where it can be seen that there will be a transparent business in the future. I just hope that's the way it's gonna work. However, I must say that I am also a little surprised by the fact that the Court of Auditors was satisfied with the corrective measure, for example, in the field of the 2004 Treaty with the Slovenian Institute of Forests, where it was only necessary to provide as a corrective measure that this contract or the scope of the tasks would be handed over to the Institute of Forests for 2006. You know that in 2003 and 2004, once a contract was concluded for 161 million, once for 163 million, it is said that it is not required of the fund, where nothing has been described, on how many surfaces, it is said, not the scope of work or on the basis of some in-depth censuses or censuses at all, what will be carried out. That the Court of Auditors has satisfied itself only by doing what is right in the future - that is to say logically - that no detailed documentation is required for 2003 or 2004, which would show whether or not 320 million tolars have done anything. This is precisely because, in the second part, it is somehow tolerated or critically assessed as regards the transfer of funds to other public institutions. As we know, these are public institutions of Triglav National Park, Park Škocjanska Cave, Public Institute of Kozjanski Park and Public Institute of Krajinski Park Goričko. Of course, I also believe that it would be necessary for these public institutions to receive money on the basis of an invitation to tender at the Ministry, so that this cannot be a direct demonstration of the financial resources. I would say another, because this is actually dedicated money, because the farm and forest land fund does not directly implement this work through its operators on the part of the fund. From the Court of Auditors report, we must admit this, we do see that there have been major irregularities, even at the signing of contracts alone, there has been damage to state property over 1.5 billion Slovenian tolars. These are the facts. And it is right that we are talking today about the problems that took place in 2004. But I certainly expect it to be transparent in the future. [[..]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you. Member Franz Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Nice hello to you all! The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia undoubtedly masters with, calmly, the largest assets the country may have. And in the fact that land is hot goods, it is also understandable to have an interest in the work of the Fund, the availability, the management, the management of these land owned by the State. The fact that the Supervisory Committee in the past period, I am speaking for a period of the previous mandate, did not detect any major irregularities in the functioning of the Fund, has probably led Members, including me, to decide at that time that there was no reason for the annual report of the Supervisory Committee to be dealt with in the National Assembly and that this hearing was initiated and concluded within the competent working body. Somehow, by a miracle, the Supervisory Board woke up at the end of its term of office. The Kuster case, adequate media support and also the fact that the president did not even want to sign the report of the Supervisory Committee. And the work of the Supervisory Committee, which was appointed by the National Assembly in this composition, showed that only the time had come for the 2004 review of the Supervisory Committee to be carried out in the National Assembly. I think the whole debate has been properly and consistently conducted. It is right that we have also received the opinion of the Court of Auditors, it is right that we have received the opinion of the Court of Auditors on corrective measures, all of which are on the table today. And all of this is what it takes to be able to have a complex and fundamental debate, which directs the National Assembly as a legislator towards the measures that are within our competence. It is also necessary to understand these two proposed decisions. We have already seen in the introduction that we have met with this report in mid-2005, started to deal with it in October, and immediately in this consideration we have adopted a conclusion at the Committee on Agriculture that the proceedings will continue only after the Court of Auditors has carried out a thorough review of the operation of the Fund for the period 2003 and 2004. The Court of Auditors found a lot of irregularities, recklessness in business and its findings were made known by this National Assembly and the Slovenian public at the end of May 2005. I think it's right that we waited until then for corrective action. I am personally very pleased that the corrective measures or the audit report and the assessment of these corrective measures by the Court of Auditors are such as these, and that they demonstrate the correct direction and regularity of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, through the appointment of the new members of the Council of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and through the appointment of the Director, joined the regulation of the situation in accordance. All these corrective measures in the 12th sets are satisfactory and reflect the actual situation in the field of operation of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. They have complied with the requirements of the Court of Auditors. In doing so, I would also like to say that it is very strange that the Court of Auditors so far, in the 10th and manyth years of the Fund, has not found the need to examine and verify the usefulness and efficiency of the Fund's operation, which is the master of the largest state assets. But it is right that this has finally happened. If you allow me to deliver one opinion on certain or certain damages found by the Court of Auditors. I think the estimate that irregularities are worth a billion and a half is kind of mild. Now I will try to justify this and I am sure that anyone who knows at least a little about the situation on the Slovenian market will be able to prove it or see it through. All of this comes from the reckless, unreasonable, reckless conduct of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and the State in the middle of the forest. Over 200 thousand hectares of these forests. With these forests, the masters of the 15 concessionaires, who, past the beams, also have concessions awarded by the Court of Auditors in breach of the regulation, are in breach of the law. And think about it, these 15 concessionaires pay for a cubic of cut wood a year all together now in the last period only one billion Slovenian tolars. That's a thousand tolars a cup. Imagine, a thousand tolars a cup. At the average selling price of wood at this time, reached on the market, which is between 7 and 8 thousand tolars there, it is already clear to everyone at the first assessment of this extraction that this is one of the largest places of state property. From this point of view, I fully support the second decision, which sets out this National Assembly to make order in this area, that order should also be made in this area in the light of the assessment of possible measures towards the abolition of concessions. I must say that it is unreasonable that we allow all these years to go by about half of the concession period, that after concession contracts have been awarded with the obvious favour of the forest economy at that time, it allows some of the natural persons, the green barons, who have acquired ownership of these forest economies and, together with these forest holdings, who have been privatised, also to carry out concessions with these forests. It's nothing to me. No one, no finance minister so far, no Prime Minister has ever seen it and done anything. I would like to point out once again here that I have always pointed out this weakness by examining the report of the Fund's Supervisory Board for 2000. See, at that time in those early years of this decade, the fund got for a cubic of wood cut in the state forests there between 450 and 500 tolars. Ridiculously, just these discussions, only the repeated demands that we have put forward within the Committee on Agriculture and the National Assembly, have forced these tycoons to give more. And now we've come at 1,000 tolars in a mocking price, in a mockery of the current market situation. After all, so many times the controversial ownership of the church in the woods confirms this. The church proved to be a good and economical owner, selling wood at five, six, seven times the price of the country. And given what I have said, I think that the corrective measure ordered by the Court of Auditors, which is the imposition of auctions for the sale of state timber, is an urgent measure that will happen, in my view, too late. I do not believe and I do not hope that in the field of concessions, with the state of spirit present in the judgement of the Constitutional Court, we can change things quickly. And I see a solution to this problem only in that, in accordance with the regulation, the state has at least the appropriate compensation or the appropriate price of the timber sold, although I am convinced that it would be necessary, in accordance with the original purpose of the fund of these Slovenian forests, to give to the management of farmers in areas with limited factors, because this would significantly strengthen the economic strength of these farms, which need this reinforcement in order to survive under new conditions of management. And I believe this and I hope that this must be our basic objective, which is related to our efforts to preserve rural settlement and the appearance of Slovenian landscape. See, this is not the only problem with managing Slovenian forests to endure so little or nothing, nor is it worth mentioning those dinars that the country receives for each cubic of cut wood. The second problem is that there are questionable records of the extent of deforestation in state forests. I think that here the public forestry service in the areas covered by the concessions does not fully perform its tasks and that the logging records should also be finalised. As opposed to attempts to resolve this, I also understand in the past the repeated intention and will of the policy to prevent the public forestry service, the Institute for Forests, from operating in an area subject to forest management which is subject to concessions. Look, here things are so "feast," I'm going to say, "shoot" and we're going to face such differences that they call after action. For this reason, I will be particularly pleased to support the second proposal for a decision. However, I certainly think that the first proposal of the decision should also be supported, because whether the institution is a fund or a fund institution, this is a dilemma that needs to be clarified. From this point of view, it would also suggest that legislation should be rectified with regard to the transfer of revenue surpluses over expenditure to the State budget and thus a clear dilemma over the Fund's performance throughout the year. I believe that this debate will be useful, that this debate is support and a kind of recognition for the actions of the current agricultural policy, the measures of the current agricultural policy in the attempt to remedy and regulate the situation in line. However, I will personally be extremely pleased if there is at least a noticeable movement in the area of logging with Slovenian forests. I am convinced that we should finally see that we should finally realize that the heavy billions crawl out of our hands here and that, on account of this, unjustifiably rich individuals who have successfully owned forest economies, who, 13 years ago on the basis of protection and with great affection, have obtained concessions for the management of state forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I would say that the findings of the Court of Auditors for 2003 and 2004 are a clear reflection of the situation arising from 1993 onwards under the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. This is the connection that led to, not only in the Ministry of Agriculture, not only in the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, but also in the Rural Development Agency, but elsewhere, because of the lack of transparency, because of the strange ways in which public money is distributed, because of the fact that I will use the gentler words than my predecessor, because I think that we use the terms of the tycoons and the green barons for people working in forest holdings and making sure that our forests, which are still in state ownership, are truly well managed, that there are no holosecs, as is the case in denationalised forests, that there is no destruction of forests, but that the cultivation plans are always carried out as they are prepared at the Institute of Forests. I don't mean to use words like that, but I probably could. When we talk about the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, I hope that everything has not been done since 1993, regardless of who led it, it has not done its primary task, which has been assigned to it by the adoption of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. I remember very well, at the time I was a Member of Parliament, and I know very well what we were talking about when we adopted this law, how it was agreed and it was said that the congregations would receive returned lands when the denationalisation procedures in their areas were completed. Not one congregation, where the denationalizations had already ended, had yet received returned land belonging to it under this law. And if we are thinking that the goal at the time, in particular the people's party, which was very active at the time in adopting this law and in general in shaping agricultural policy in our country, was to gradually increase farms so that the economic price of crops would increase so that the rationality of food production in Slovenia would increase. However, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which had every opportunity to influence and promote the expansion of farms, if not through ownership on agricultural land, certainly did nothing by the planned design of agricultural land complexes and the distribution of these agricultural land complexes to good farmers. Not where the most agricultural land is owned by the state, it is in southern Primorska, in Kočevska, but elsewhere, where it has broken down the land and leased it to various farmers in the afternoon. This was the result of the work of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. Not to mention that he was still renting agricultural land that was not State property at all, but were private or, look at it, municipal property. Never did those individuals who were so fortunate that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests leased their land, nor did the congregation see the money that the fund had cashed. And when it is said that 556 million tolars of profits were created in 2004, and the Court of Auditors notes that the Fund has failed to carry out a review of the state ownership it manages, that it does not even have the clear knowledge of the use of the land in its management, nor does it have a clear definition of what it owns, what the value of the land is. By the way, the value of land, interesting as well as the height of the lease, is, for example, four times higher in southern Primorska, especially in the coastal area, than in the interior of Slovenia. When I once asked why it was so, I was told that because in southern Primorska, especially in the narrow Mediterranean zone, two years could be turned around. Interesting! I've never seen an olive born twice a year. I've never seen an apple born twice a year. Salads, parsleys, greens, and similar things are more successful in our country, because it takes irrigation. And the Fund never, or very rarely, participates in the construction of irrigation systems, not to mention that it does not even take care of accessible routes to agricultural land under its management. I would therefore say that talking about concessionaires mistreating or mismanagement of forests, exploiting the country by paying too little concession, is, of course, the problem of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. Why, though, has he failed to ensure that concessions are gradually and systematically increasing over the past years? In particular, to ensure that this concession is used for the purposes for which it is actually to be used, for example, for the maintenance and construction of forest roads. Does anyone think that the concessionaire should also build forest roads? In this case, I think we should say that there is no concession and that the concessionaire must do so from the resources he receives from selling wood. To talk about how the owners of denationalised forests are better able to manage forests, to survive more for wood than for forest economies, whether they are privately owned by employees or by so-called green barons. That's the first I've heard of that expression. I know we had before II. the world war of forest owners, who could be called brown barons, because they made sure that the forest vegetation on Pohorje, and elsewhere, disappeared under their axes and saws. These woods were only after II. World War II is restored, planted and is now one of the best and most beautiful forests in Europe. I would therefore hope to say that forest economies have done, regardless of the consequences of privatisation, much more benefits than damage, which unfortunately could not be claimed for the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. That he did much damage because he did not carry out his basic task, that is true. However, if he had done something of great benefit, it would not have been possible to say, in particular, according to the Court of Auditors report, which has identified a number of shortcomings that we can claim cannot be addressed. No audit report can return the money lost by the fund due to the fact that the agricultural land was sold at a price because it did not place all the agricultural land it owned in the management, but at the same time leased foreign land because the agricultural land sold free of charge because it charged too low rent and rent because the land envisaged for the building land or land already in this status was sold at disproportionately low prices and with direct contracts. By the way, I would say that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests cannot manage land which are buildings and should immediately transfer it to the municipalities in which these buildings are located. And here the simple fund constantly forgets that certain things must not be done by law. Of course, it is very sweet to sell building land, especially in areas where the price of these buildings is dizzying. And for this reason, I would say that by adopting the second point of the decision, or the second conclusion that was just discussed, we will solve the problem of low concessions, and that we will solve the problem of economic governance with forests, it is "lari fari". Shortening concession contracts does not mean that concessions will be higher. In particular, we should be aware that the life expectancy is consistent with agricultural land and forests, given that denationalisation is nearing its end, it is slowly running out. It would be wise for the Fund’s Supervisory Committee and the entire management of the Fund to begin to reflect on how it will prepare all matters so that, when the time in the law comes, it will be possible for the municipalities to transfer agricultural land to their property and property. Read the law that speaks of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows, the representatives of the House have a nice greeting! I'd split it into two parts. It is one where such and other checks have demonstrated or identified certain irregularities in the operation of the Fund in incomplete procedures to resolve individual problems or to manage procedures. And that other part that was already criminalized. I cannot agree with my colleague Mikolić that he is not interested in political intrigue. Of course, if you're not there. But if you are mentioned 10 times, 100 times and so on, then these things may be of interest, and in this part it seems to me that, but I have never used this before, as he mentioned before, I think in the opinion of the Group of Members, colleague Sok, when he said that some were talking about the mountain shaking and the mouse was born. A mouse was born in this part. However, the work of this first part was beneficial. And this first part, which is also an integral part of the report, I welcome the corrective measures that will enable the Fund to operate more transparently and legally in the interests of Slovenia. The Act on Denationalisation was mentioned here in the discussion, namely that the Fund will suffer damage or have to pay damages due to the inability to use land. Here we have to point to the ones that my colleague Sušnik called the Green Barons. These are those who have been hampering actual denationalisation for many, many years, since the 1992 leg, and these obstacles and these pollens are not yet over. There's nothing the fund can do here. The Fund shall be liable when the various procedures in individual cases in the courts, the various authorities conducting the proceedings, etc., are also terminated. It's a fact. I said the first part was welcome. The second part, because it is criminalized, also colleague Pecanova mentioned the party earlier, but I do not think that you have criminalized, criminalized one of the supervisors, was happy to join, at least to a certain extent, the President or the new President of the Supervisory Committee at that time, and there, of course, we were accused by all the visible representatives of the Slovenian People's Party, some by name, and others by visible representatives or leadership. So am I. I must say that none of those mentioned by name and surname are only part of this report and none has been proven and cannot be. As far as I'm concerned, I have examined the land book in detail and I in Primorsk, I don't know, in Isola or Piran, Koper or any congregation, I simply didn't find my own plot because I was supposed to distribute or sell parcels to the visible representatives of the fund in one way or another. But that I'm a visible representative, I guess I am. For the first time, I am the leader of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, secondly, I have a height of 183 centimeters and I think you can see me. I did not find my parcel, as did the other visible representatives of the Slovenian People's Party. But we haven't had any excuses in all this time. On the contrary. The supervisor who threw out this pollen was rewarded with but here also mentioned some that I would not only appoint, even some individuals from LDS, but the supervisor, as it is said, was rewarded, the one who began to throw the pollen was rewarded by my information with at least two control worlds. [[...]] As far as I know, as far as I've read in the papers, he's been expelled from one recently. The reasons were mentioned in the paper that I wouldn't explain them to anyone who wouldn't accidentally sue me. As it is said, I welcome this first part, and I want and I am sure that the new management of the Fund will work in accordance with these corrective measures and that the functioning of the Fund will continue to be more transparent in those parts where, until now, it has been possible in the country to be untransparent and, in certain cases, incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present in the hall. I also welcome the fact that this debate has come to the National Assembly in this report, because there have been insufficient routine debates or adoptions on the Committee alone. At this time, there are some changes to ensure that the Fund operates more rationally and transparently. In particular, I would like to limit myself to a second decision, which discusses the reduction of concessions for the exploitation of forests. The concessions that have been granted at 20 years of age, with the need to pay 400 to 500 tolls per cubic of wood cut, are likely not acceptable from any point of view, either from a budgetary point of view or from a rational point of view of the Agricultural Land Fund. The changes that have just been announced have raised to about 1,000 tolars for a cubic of cut wood, but this is still not enough for the current price of between 7 and 8 thousand tolars. I also like some of the new ideas suggested after the adoption of this Decision on the shortening of concessions. There are opportunities for hill farms where instead of a 20-year concession, maybe only for a particular parcel of a family farm for one year or as long as such parcels can be used, because it is necessary for additional activities on hill farms, if not, to shut down these farms. Not everyone will be able to take up tourism. And it is this willingness, either in a technical sense, because these farmers in the hills already have the right equipment, either in their experience, because the forest is essentially their field, or in some knowledge, about handling the wood itself, that they might really take advantage of this opportunity and give the hill farms a chance to earn money. The idea of auctions is also a good idea, because the main objective is to achieve a more fair concession, which can either flow into the state budget, or that there is a financial basis for the operation of the farm and forests, where the task of increasing Slovenian farms is still open, the current average of 6.5 hectares, as much as the size of the Slovenian farm, does not, of course, talk about the fact that Slovenian agriculture will be competitive with European agriculture. And just the increase in agricultural parcels is supposed to be one of the ways to increase competitiveness. Therefore, the Fund needs some operating capital and, for an intermediate period from purchase to transfer, to a new owner. And more financially transparent business, I think it's the right way to ensure a better operation of the fund. We have heard about two years a year in the debates so far. It depends on what culture is growing. It is difficult to expect the olive to give birth twice a year, but we know in the Mediterranean countries in Tunisia that there are two, up to three years of grain per year, depending on the wetness of the soil, and this experience could be repeated in us. Then there was talk of the Pohorje being stripped, cut to the ground. This was mainly due to the extraction of carbon for glass manufactures, glazed. Not only would I mention Pohorje, but I would also like to point out the Gorjans, who have been wiped out by the postwar authorities even to the extent of damage in terms of the risk of erosion and the last afforestation or rehabilitation of that damage took place only about 15 to 20 years ago. This can be the case if we drive across the Gorjans, through the pitches of extremely young, equally spruce spruce. The forests need to be managed wisely and I think this second conclusion will help to ensure this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Everything I say will not be meant to be satisfied with the former part of the fund and that there was no irregularity. There have been irregularities, there have been, there are likely to be, but I hope not the ones that happened or are supposed to happen. Dude, I think Veršnik's got a pretty good track record of the fund's functions he's supposed to have. This is the management of agricultural land and forests, denationalisation and, above all, the expectations of the Fund that have been in this country. Farming in a way that most citizens expect to get the cheapest land to be leased is very difficult. And there were, of course, pressures on the different sides of how to get to the state land, because the lease is the lowest, private leases are much more expensive, as well as pressures for the future to divide the state land in a way through municipalities or directly, are such that they will never meet the expectations of citizens, say and write, farmers. We currently have 60, 70 thousand farms registered. If we distribute this land to these farms, we will increase the area by 2 to 3 hectares, and apart from dissatisfaction, we have done nothing. In the meantime, certain solutions can happen that will increase individual farms, and we will never fix the state average. Never. With the stories about the state forests, I have often been in concert with my colleague Sušnik, and I did not understand that despite the legislation, the country has not been able to recover larger amounts, especially from concessions, and that it has not been able to monitor the procedures that have taken place in the forests. Expecting billions to fall here after or now, they're barren. I see from the debate that you do not separate concessions and contractual leases or perform certain works in forests for smaller areas. Concessions also contain various works in the forests, which, of course, result in different costs. I agree, however, that the purchase was 500 million and so on, and that it could be too low, and that it could be higher, that order could be set up differently than it was, but I am afraid that billions will not fall. Here this story will not go in the direction someone expects. Denationalisation is a story, even the operation of the fund has had large financial transactions: assessments, calculations, contracts, and so on. And there must have been a lot of subjective evaluations, arrangements and so on. Denationalization is also such a story. However, the 1991 legislation, when it was first, had been amended somewhat, so much so that denationalisation could not be implemented at all. It took you a few years to get a denationalization decision, you got land that was yours, and it wasn't even yours, because you couldn't get it, you couldn't even manage it. The process of physically reaching your land took several years again. And these are the stories that have gone on forever, and they have irritated the nerves of those who are in line, the beneficiaries, and many. Even today, this story is not different, and once again, this is the law that was passed in 1991, we know under what circumstances. The compensation company that was established to solve these matters, if you go to the decisions to watch, has returned everything to the fund. Come back in nature. And again, the story went from the beginning. Then there were the structures, the discredits that were abused here. I didn't come to this Parliament to solve my problems, but they got me into these problems. When state television publishes the story that the state has offered one MP, that he bought it and sold it dearly, nothing was true. This has also been identified by the Supervisory Board. And that we had the Court of Auditors, which over all the years revised the operation of the Fund, even twice a year and failed to identify the facts or events that it had found in some period of mass. In the Fund's response report, many things have been rejected, I will not repeat the story that the Presecnik was telling, but the worst discoveries have found that they did not happen at all. And then you become doubtful of these various alarming discoveries and realities, including the discovery of competent and responsible institutions in the country. Let me tell you one more story. The Court of Auditors also found that some land had been replaced and sold, although there was no truth in the same document on the same side of the swap and the land book proposal. What was the truth? Someone has ordered that this citizen should be treated with special care. And they didn't let him out of the claws today. Those who supported this fund all those years ago, we expected from the Fund all of what we talked about and talked about, operating with monetary land, denationalisation is likely to be completed and later purchases, regulating agricultural land, selling and leasing. One part of the functions that no one does today. Here is the question of future agricultural policy, the size of the plot, farms, so that the fund can regulate in this way. We have in Kočevsko or Haloza, also in Goričko hundreds of abandoned hectares that can be redeemed at one reasonable price, included in some arrondic complex, and no one can at this time be like a country, because local communities have limited opportunities, so I will say that they may be able to do so, especially so that they can do so and then under well-known conditions for rent or for sale. Those little plots that don't mean anything in this country should have been sold off at any cost. Records are lands that are of no benefit to anyone, but perhaps any individual, especially under conditions, or limited processing conditions, could solve these matters. That the current authority is not immune from these stories after a year and a half ago, I think under previous guidance, they are in the same way as before, and our colleagues have come to the fund, and they have said, we want land for our farmers, because they could not understand that there is a rule and law, because they are not a rule and law new regulation, but a new power that must give their constituents land. Okay, well, maybe someone will be careful that it's probably not possible along the way, and these desires will still be present. In the sky, any alienation of the land of the fund for various sports facilities, for golf, was evocative or problematic. The problem was in Primorska, I don't know the situation, the problem is in the tourist complex in Prekmurje. How could someone get state land to build golf on it? Today, when important statesmen play golf, it is no longer a question of whether golf is being built on state land. Before that, everything was troubled. Although they paid this land three times, four times more expensive than the price of agricultural land. It must have been a problem with the wrong political option. We can't be indifferent to these stories here. Tourism is one of the life-saving plants in particular areas, and if we're going to have a political circus here and who's whose and who's allowed it, it can't get it, then it won't be good. That the fund is as legally regulated as it is, these stories, I must say, this solution is advocated by right-wing political parties. And that was accepted because you wanted to. Okay, then in a different force ratio, but we were letting go and we were like, "Okay, let's do it." And maybe it's true that he shows up to figure things out and sort things out the way he needs to. I don't think these two conclusions are that bad, but they're questionable from a constitutional point of view. Mostly others. And that things are arranged to become transparent and try to work out exactly how much it costs, who can get in these state forests, is fine. Of course, we must nevertheless respect some constitutional order in order to keep things going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Dr. Paula Gantar has the word. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] And Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. However, if I touch on some of these forest management issues, it would be correct to say that concessionaires carry out the amount of work they set out at the Institute for Forests in the forestry plans. And all of this is confirmed and coordinated by the Fund for Agricultural Lands. Just by saying that someone is cutting something and I don't know what they're doing in these woods, it's very unfair talking. However, the fact is that in history, since the Fund is managed and managed by state forests, it has always been incomprehensible that the Fund has not worked for a long time to be higher in state forests. This is how we face the problem today, in fact, that we have a poor quality of wood, that the wood is old, and that we have a much higher cost of harvesting this wood. This was mainly during a period when the Fund did not wish to conclude concession contracts, or this wish had neither a policy, but the Fund should have done so. At the time, it was extremely low and there was also a very large damage to the Fund's budget. However, since this money has not been transferred to the state budget in any case, it is difficult to say that the state budget has been damaged. But I would like to point out the following: when we talk about how much we can take out of state forests, it is necessary for the Institute of Forests, including the Fund, and in particular what we want out of these national forests, or if we can call them public forests, to achieve it. The interest of nature conservation is often intertwined with the economic use of forests. And this one is also the one who many times then puts the foresters into some sort of dilemma. Whether they are naturalists or, in fact, foresters who are supposed to preserve this forest according to their knowledge, both for the purposes of today’s development and, of course, for tomorrow. All these dilemmas have led to the fact that there is too much old wood in many state forests. And because this wood was old, it was also extremely sensitive to diseases. The appearance of the skull is one of itself, I'll say, proof that this wood is too old and irresistible for such pests as well. The plantation and price of wood, which is old and attacked by the lobulator, is significantly lower than it could otherwise have been on the market. And even when we're talking about the need to sell all the wood through auctions, yes, but we need to be aware that then this wood might also remain on that dump as a wood that could not be sold because it wasn't quality enough. What happens to this wood when it's standing on a dump like this? First time, it goes down, loses at a price. Second, it is necessary to adequately protect such landfills so that they do not come to an end. It means some of the additional costs that we need to have in front of our eyes when we talk about them and know how to evaluate them properly. With regard to the extraction from the state forests, I reiterate that it would be indeed extremely correct and last time for the Government to amend the concession regulation which speaks of the management of state forests in a way that part of the compensation also belongs to the local community where this wood is cut down or where this compensation is also created. After 13 years, I think it would be a good time for these local communities, but the Fund and the Government to devote some of these funds. Because to maintain nonstate roads, as colleague Sok mentioned, not forest roads, but local roads are a problem. These local roads do not even get a tolar to support them more effectively. But the source is simple and only compensation for this cut wood. And as long as that source is gone, the problems in these areas are so much greater. Once again, let me point out that it is really necessary to speed up the procedures for the partitioning and distribution of this property to the local community and to the country as soon as possible in order to register agricultural land, including the assets with which the fund is managed. Since the Law on Public Funds now speaks of the municipality as having the full costs of the lotation, it also seems very correct to me that the Government will, in a very short period of time, prepare a law, a change to the Law on Public Funds, which will make the fund liable for the payment of the plots, because it unjustifiably acquired huge assets in all these years when it sold the building land. And this is what requires such a solution to at least partially burden the municipal budgets, where there are state agricultural land and state forests. Also in 2004 we can find that the fund made about 450 million tolars by selling buildings. So it's only by selling building plots. With the price of agricultural land totalling 230 tolars in 2004. The price of building land is somewhere on the average of 2006 tolars. Who created this difference between 230 and 2006? Not even a fund with a tolar. Therefore, I am talking about the need to speed up these things as quickly as possible and to lead to this stage, that every master in this room, in accordance with his or her powers, or in accordance with the investments you make in this space, should, of course, also generate revenue. With regard to mountain farms, I would also like to add that we have already proposed an amendment in amending the Agricultural Lands and Forests Act of the Republic of Slovenia, proposing to round up forests in those mountain farms which, of course, have few of these areas and actually need a larger area for their survival. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been adopted. This amendment was not only adopted because part of the concessions and leases and the sale of building land after this amendment would, of course, belong to the municipalities. This was the reason why the National Assembly, in a very large majority of course, rejected this proposal. So that I can say after this wage that we are working and we have proposed a solution to the rescue of mountain farms in such a way that these forest complexes are also rounded up in such a way that these farms have larger forest areas in management. With regard to logging from cut wood in church forests that have been returned in the process of denationalisation, of course, I would also like these analyses as soon as possible. Some data were already reported at the last reading of the 2005 report of the Supervisory Committee. Although no one was talking about it being church forests. But we can assume that, of course, the church does not want to have employed foresters like forest economies, and that the church is not interested in having an enterprise in the environment where this forest is, but that someone comes to cut into this forest. I don't know. I'll also say at Pokluka from Kočev or from Primorska or Stajerska. This one's gonna cut it and leave this place. And the important difference is whether we want to maintain our regional development in a way that we have businesses in environments where this state property also exists. Those who cut it will be cut under minimum costs and on the basis of the interests of the owner. The country, I hope, has even more interest than just and only to cut as much as possible and at as low a price as possible. This is not the management and management of state property. That is why, of course, effective and good forest economic plans are needed, where indeed all the roles of the public forest will be taken into account inside. From the fact that this forest is accessible, to enable the survival of animals as well as, of course, the proper conservation of forest species. All of this, of course, is expected to be done by the Fund as the master and manager of these forests in the future. But it is true that the concession itself, as a concession, means that already foresters, because they have concessions, are the ones who can manage and manage these forests. Thus, the longevity of concession contracts or the shortening of these concession contracts is, in fact, an inappropriate issue. And solve this problem. Because the concession allows for management and management in its own way, as I have previously presented it. More importantly, it raises the issue of the duration of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. This fund was set up to carry out denationalisation. Let us complete these procedures as soon as possible. We're going to reduce the cost of taking out the leases from the concessions. That's, I think, the most effective thing the country can do in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. That there was something wrong with the operation of the Fund, I think, after this debate today, we are all united. That the Court of Auditors has found irregularities is also clear to everyone. And the result is a new leadership. As a result, all corrective measures have been taken in the sense that the normal functioning of the Fund is ensured, as necessary - transparent, transparent and, above all, appropriate to the laws. On this occasion, I am somewhat surprised - I hope that I have understood correctly in Mr Gezo Juban's opening statement, which concluded that it is not appropriate to consider this report, but that we have missed everything somewhere. That's not my opinion. Although it was a little late, it made sense and caused what it caused. In doing so, I note the duality of the party which, before we received the response report, requested a debate at the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances. At that time, that was June, and it was very urgent to deal with the subject. Today, when the time is right, they see no longer the point of dealing with it. I think that makes sense. I think that the proposed conclusions make sense and that they will also have to be supported. I also understand that there have been considerable difficulties in the operation of the Fund itself. In particular, if I refer to the decision or request of the Court of Auditors to submit a plan of measures and deadlines for the completion of the transfer of agricultural land and farms and forests to the Fund. This process, I am sure, was not easy, especially since it was necessary for each acquisition to be negotiated for each transaction. But we all know how hard it is to make deals with a contract. That it is not an easy operation to reach an agreement here, first the talks and then the final agreement. These things, I can tell, may have gotten a little over all reasonable deadlines. However, I fully understand the problems involved. Well, I'm sure these measures are right and the fund will be easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Juban has responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The point of the hearing was presented in the sense that two and a half years had passed since the first report or the report of the Supervisory Committee was born and that so many events had taken place at that time that today the National Assembly could no longer make an important contribution to the resolution of the problems in line. The two decisions before us are also such that the Government, without us, can propose to the National Assembly to adopt a change of law. At the same time, the second decision, which the Committee has already formulated itself, is to examine the possibility, because it seems problematic to the Committee itself. I personally do not oppose these solutions. Although this was a presentation on behalf of the Group of Members, we will not contribute significantly here today on this basis to the future operation of the Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you. Does the representative of the Supervisory Board want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I must speak with regard to certain implementations and certain answers to them. In fact, on behalf of all the members of the Supervisory Board, the current one, I do not fully accept any labelling for the discreditation of any and any of the parties who have been a policy actor in the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, because I believe that the figure 1.5 billion, which the Court of Auditors has cited as a mistake, is sufficiently eloquent and that the Court of Auditors is inadvisable. I'd like to say a little more praise. The Supervisory Board has worked well in this composition. Today I am doing the work that someone else should do, just because the continuity of work will continue and that the Fund will work well for the country and that we will do the job as we have been entrusted with it. I can boast that, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' statements and with our own findings, we have succeeded in entering the property of the Republic of Slovenia on an area that has a mortgage of EUR 2 million, that we have managed to obtain the missing or influence the Fund's workers, that they have acquired the missing contracts and entered into the land book of over 600 square metres of space in the premises where the Fund is operating today. Even today there are problems and that procedures for the conclusion of the annexes to the subsequent purchased premises in 2000 and for the acquisition of originals for the entry of this property into the land book are initiated. In addition, injury to the Fund was detected under the 2003 purchase contract for the sale of unamorted vineyards where the country was damaged by more than 2 million, which the Court of Auditors overlooked. Perhaps I would add to the implementation of Mr Webra that the Fund has indeed reserved to implement remedial measures by 2010, but that it is in active motion and that measures such as this POPOV programme are, for example, [[?]] Almost in the end. However, to avoid being wrongly condemned, this information is still a little delayed. I think that the GErkOV-based record introduced by the State can be covered by this programme and that this can then also be realized by the correctional measures. The problem raised by Mr Sušnik is a shift in the forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Changes have been made, as well as in the field of human resources. The management of professional services in the forestry sector has been replaced. Individual interviews with individual concessionaires take place. It's not 1:12 anymore, but it's a football game: team to team up so they're individual interviews. Then perhaps with regard to denationalisation we could commend the fund for being in the final phase. Substitute land is in rescue. There are only 30 more cases that need to be solved. It is consistent with a great deal of potential knowledge and a good support environment that all these programmes, as set out in the response report, are ongoing. The Forest Office is under a fund's magnifying glass, so it controls what is ordered and what is received from it. I would then reply to Mrs Pecanov's MEPs. I live in Primorska. I have been working with agriculture for 35 years, and I can tell her that the conversion rate in Primorska, where the comparative advantages of production are 2.3, is that the fund does not account for four times the rent, but the rent is only 20% higher. However, as supervisor, and given that we have faced certain problems, the Fund would be able to function more easily and more easily to implement agri-terrestrial policy, it would also suggest, inter alia, that once the law has been amended, that the last rounding of agricultural land could be applied with a pre-emptive right and that it would be allowed to purchase in order immediately beyond the limits of farmers. In this way, the fund will be able to acquire multiple areas on the market. It will be able to better implement agri-terrestrial policy and increase, have the opportunity to increase farms to the level where the farm as a cell is economically justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you. The list of applicants has been completed. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the application. The application for an additional debate shall be open. Mr. Sok, please. Is the time set? Five minutes. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. So I also find it difficult to accept certain indications that it is a political construct, that it is a rumbling, that it is a principle of discrediting individual political parties. This is where they were mentioned. Then it is a senseless treatment, because that the time distance of all of this is such that all of this is behind us, etc. So, as co-responsible for this report to have taken place in the National Assembly, I can say that if the Committee had not acted in the manner it did and had not decided that the report should be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly, it would have made a huge mistake. The Court of Auditors found damage. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board said 1.5 billion Slovenian tolars. If this seems minimal to anyone, it is irrelevant, for us in New Slovenia it is certainly not irrelevant. I'm glad no one mentions the members of our party. We are obviously very insignificant in this country even so important that we were not even involved in the work. However, if we did not consider this and if it was irrelevant, of course, what the Court of Auditors found would continue to happen. The land would continue to be leased free of charge. It all says so when you go to the Court of Auditors reports. The rent would continue to be too low and the rent would continue to be charged. Building land would continue to be sold as ordinary land through public tendering on the basis of direct contracts. Potentially resilient land with municipal spatial plans intended for construction would be sold as ordinary land at low prices. The sale of forests or timber past public auctions at a low price, with not even 500 million purchases per country, with the demand that the country, on the other hand, pay both forest roads and local roads, which we can listen to here, and that the renters are recognised for costs they cannot afford. Today we do not have time to dissect before the Slovenian public the Court's report in detail. But it's online, and people can look at it. And I think that, also on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture, which proposed that this report should be made known to the National Assembly, it has come to the conclusion that the working structure has taken the alert seriously. I am also very pleased with the work of the Supervisory Committee. On this occasion, the President may also apologize for all that she has experienced in this debate, either in this House in the National Assembly or outside, because much of this was entirely in the direction of exerting pressure on her and on the Supervisory Committee. And if the Supervisory Committee had not done this in a different way from its predecessors, such as the Supervisory Committee led by Dr. Igor Vojtec, then, of course, things would have gone this way and so on. It's state property. If anyone does, then in this National Assembly we are committed to keeping abreast of what is happening and doing with this state property. I am very sorry that all this has taken the head of the fund to Mrs Maria Cuk. Once again, none of us pointed to any political party. This was done in all this information in the public eye by journalists who logically linked certain matters to the parties who had recruited their people to these functions. That's perfectly normal. It's political. Our job is to clear this up. Now most of this is done. And before us is the amendment of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands. I believe that, following today's decision, the executive branch will prepare a proposal to amend this law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I will try to say a few sentences from the point of view of the Commission for the control of the budget and other public finances, where we have also addressed this report by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has clearly concluded that the work of the Fund has not been cost-effective or effective. This is literally recorded in the Court of Auditors' report. The Court of Auditors also found that it failed or that the work of the Supervisory Board was not effective. Moreover, the management of the Fund in this respect has not been the most effective. Finally, there is a role of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has not been the most effective in this work. As far as our commission is concerned, I must say that we have placed this on our committee, at the request of the President of the Commission, without having previously obtained a response report. On our committee, the usual practice is to get a response report and only then to deal with a particular subject. But it was obviously in a hurry because someone probably saw an opportunity to get some political story out of it that was supposed to benefit someone. Later this turned out to be against this particular political option. But then again, there was a rush for this story to be over as soon as possible. I have to say that this is still an open story on the committee and that we have not finished it yet. So I expect that as soon as we get a response report, and which I think is a good response report, we will conclude this story. As far as the content is concerned, one of the main substantive problems that we dealt with on the committee was the management of agricultural land. The management of agricultural land in the sense that a large part of agricultural land, which should already be on the Fund for Agricultural Lands, is not transferred to the Fund. The other thing is. We were very disturbed by the rental of land from prices to the time of the lease. Then there were divergent land swaps which, according to the Commission's assessment, as well as some members in general, were not adequate values. Then there's the sale of agricultural land. In particular, the problematic sale seems to be the one that is at the edge of the walled areas and has been sold in many cases as agricultural land. Later, however, the same land was acquired several times at a price and the seller should have known that at that time. It seems very strange to me personally that there is no bidding in selling wood for one strange reason. The bidding is not carried out after that assessment, which I saw written in order not to aggravate the situation of the wood-processing industry in Slovenia, which is not acceptable to me. I think that should do it. However, as a number of wood from Slovenia is driven, it leads abroad. So I don't think it's legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u40	Mr President, representatives of the Fund, Members and Members of Parliament! I think it is good that we are here in the National Assembly in this report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and the Court of Auditors' indirect report. I'm guessing it would be good. Not only in this case, but also in any other case to consider the Court of Auditors' reports because the Court of Auditors sets up its own role. Of course, the only peacemaker who can independently judge certain inadequacies that have been carried out. In doing so, I also assess that it was good that, in this long story, the Court of Auditors concluded that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia had started to carry out activities as prescribed by law and that, in the end, the Government, together with the Supervisory Committee and the Fund, had also acted in such a way that the excess of revenue on the expenditure of the Fund had also been shown and disclosed in the budget. Why am I saying that? I'm saying this because I think we've forgotten a few things in this story. We have forgotten that it is good, however, that we have this fund, that it is good that we have maintained a significant proportion of forests in state ownership in the Fund for Agricultural Lands, Farms and Forests. However, in order to ensure that, as with the type of other funds, a number of other budgetary users are involved in carrying out activities where they are not adequately controlled and controlled by the Court of Auditors, errors could and could occur. I regret that someone has estimated that on the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances we wanted to put ourselves on one side or the other. In particular, we wanted to defend ourselves in the Court of Auditors, because you will remember, in particular, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, headed by the Minister, of course formerly, also the Director of the Fund when the audit report was issued, that is to say, almost wanted to cancel or devalue the value of this audit report. So I think it was made last year also because of all the activities of the whole circle. The Fund for Agricultural Lands has begun to give serious consideration and to examine in detail. He examined what the Court of Auditors had determined as corrective measures and this had also happened. When all this was done, when a post-revision report said, with the exception of one measure, that the Fund had made all the progress, and after we were able to read from the media that the Fund, together with the Government, had also decided that it would still indicate the surplus of revenue and expenditure in the state budget itself, I did not assess it as necessary for the Commission to meet. However, I would suggest that, in the future, in the procedure of the National Assembly, we also consider a slightly more serious possibility at the plenary session itself that any report of the Court of Auditors on this or that case should be considered by the Committee. Last but not least, when you look at it in a distance of time, then I think that this story of the Fund of Agricultural Lands of the Republic of Slovenia must be based primarily on the fact that procedures can be misused if there is no proper control. In this sense, I think that, of course, today's conclusions will in some ways be a little out of date. Above all, I expect what we have not heard today to be heard by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, what it intends to do, how it intends to respond to the conclusions put forward. I hope that we will conclude this story more quickly than we did when the entire report is being considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear President, representatives of the Fund! It is undeniable that the audit report on the correctness and prudence of the operations of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002/2003 and 2002/2004 has established the extent and extent of irregularities that the Court of Auditors has issued a negative opinion. That's a fact we can't get past. It is also undeniable that a number of shortcomings have been addressed by the Court of Auditors in the course of its review. For everything else, the Court of Auditors in its 30.5. also requested the submission of a response report, which was then assessed in the audit report in all due to good consistent measures, taking into account also the fact that it was indicated that revenue surpluses were reported on expenditure in the budget in all 12 segments. I would like to stress this in particular because I cannot accept or reject the assertion made by my predecessor that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is trying to link the functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, specifically the Minister with the Court of Auditors, and that she has not responded to the Court of Auditors' actions. I would like to remind you that, I will say, the Minister of Agriculture for Forestry and Food has just proposed to the current Director, who has signed under the corrective measures that the Court of Auditors has considered positive that the Minister of Agriculture has also proposed the composition of the Council and that it is very important to thank the Minister for having this response report before us. And today we can say that the situation on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is more transparent, better, more transparent, which gives good prospects for future work. But now I would like to give an answer to those who are trying to show in every way that these allegations of damage to the state are not real at the expense of the sale of timber. You're arguing that we don't take into account those who claim to be caring, caring, and everything that's invested in the woods. Let me remind you that the Court of Auditors has found that the body to oversee the implementation of these works simply did not have those tasks defined in the contract for 2002/2003 and 2002/2004. And it is only in the 2006 contract that the Fund explicitly stated in the framework of the preparatory measures that, as a task of the Forestry Office, the contract also pays for the control of the cutting and assembly, the cultivation and protection works and the construction and reconstruction of the train, including the acquisition or collation of parts [[This is what is supposed to be charged for the concession fee]] . To claim that something has happened if, on the other hand, the Court of Auditors finds without appeal that control of what is supposed to be or is not defined in a contract defining the scope of control is, to say the least, ridiculous and unconstant. From this point of view, I would like to point out, once again, ours too. [[End warning sign]] a deficit in the use of wood biomass. Given that we have 7.5 million cubic meters of growth, which we can only take advantage of 3.2%, the main reason for this is to look right at [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. First of all, Comrade Sušnik, we seem to agree with everything. Except for what I said before. It's probably not gonna be a billion. But it could be more important than it's ever been. This is probably what the Fund’s management and the Supervisory Board know. I'm calling mainly about another matter. For the first time, I want a successful work for the new management of the fund as a Supervisory Committee and that they will not have the story that has happened in the past. You know what I mean. The second is that we have two parts to continue to manage the fund and to change the law. One of the things that the Supervisory Committee in its last decision has also referred to the National Assembly, that certain matters should be regulated in terms of further work of the Fund in terms of agri-terrestrial policy in Slovenia, that it has the right to purchases, that it has the task of regulating agricultural land and that it lays down the conditions under which these land will be placed on the market. Selling, renting and so on. Transparent, competitive and something else. And in this case, although I will have no role in drafting changes to the law, my appeal is to all those who will be present in the second part, when it comes to the current state land in the management of some privatised agricultural enterprises, be sensitive because we are dealing with companies that are organised and operating positively. We have one with about 3,000 hectares of lease, and the other with 2,000, which is already the property area, which also has top environmental technology, which has trained machineryers. They are no longer tractors, but they are professional or medium-educated personnel who manage extremely high techniques, that they have modern techniques and that they have new programmes, bioelectrics, alternative production, greenery and so on. If we go to one such frontal measure, and now we put all the land in the supply that competitors can get, and we disperse those lands, I don't think it's going to be good in terms of one national agricultural policy. And that it is necessary to think here if it is possible to arrange or make some new order in the field of concessions and so on. Of course I've already said yes to that. I don't mind here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you. Does the Chairman of the Supervisory Board want a word? No, no, no. Thank you. This concludes the debate. As no amendments to the proposed decisions have been tabled, we will decide on the conclusions in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 20th item of the agenda or at the latest at 6.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of the asbestos Act. At its 17th extraordinary meeting on 29 November 2006, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-declare before declaring the law amending and supplementing the law on the removal of asbestos consequences. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear Members, present and absent! The Council of State does not oppose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Working with asbestos in order to prevent procedures for obtaining rights and paying damages, but advocates a comprehensive solution to this problem, which the Council of State has been very alerting for 3 years. However, the procedures in this regard have been ongoing since 1994. With regard to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I must explain that the State Council has already consistently stressed that early retirements must be linked to a certified disease, which is clearly argued in the legal opinion obtained by the Association of asbestos Patients. The required condition for the second or third degree disability status is not feasible in practice in relation to the practice of disability commissions in comparison with the patient. Patients with established occupational lung disease; or [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They do not have reduced vital lung function at the initial stage. However, it is medically confirmed that they are more susceptible to respiratory infections and diseases. As there are no functional impairments in the initial state in most cases, disabled workers will not be recognised by the disability commission. At the same time, however, it is not possible to provide work at the workplace for the patients who do not yet have an additional burden on their health. Because of the synergistic effects of the working environment, the disease will progress more rapidly. However, more severe forms of asbestos disease will develop more quickly. Identifying certified diseases and related early retirements as well as respectable Members and Members of Parliament, relating also to the rights of compensation in younger persons and also to the insurance of the descendants of all those entitled to compensation if they die during the proceedings and these people die. I stress that the State Council is aware that asbestos issues are complex issues, environmental issues, human health. Above all, it touches our conscience and conscience, whether we are ready to see at all depths and start systematically addressing the causes. The consequences are here. This is a difficult legacy for our descendants. In this part of the State Council insists on a comprehensive solution to this problem. This is not just about identifying the disease and eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos. It is also about informing people about the correct treatment of asbestos, which is still present in our environment on the roofs, in water bodies, in brakes, in parts of buildings, etc. Many instructions are written. However, it is noted that they are hardly taken into account in practice. If he does, he takes the replacement roof cover to the prescribed landfill, he has to pay us an extra fee. In such a case, however, it can gain material stimulation. Looking at it from a broader perspective, the emergence of asbestos diseases is only an initial reminder of the possible negative consequences of dealing with living people. The consequences of uncontrolled pollution due to increased productivity and progress are evident in everyday life. Decisions from 10 years ago show their faces. We can't look at him, and we can't turn away. But we must respond thoughtfully and systematically. The solution to the asbestos problem at this time can be a turning point in the effort to maintain quality of life and a healthy environment. Other similar problems lie ahead. Adhesive poisoning, lead pollution, coal, etc. Let us, then, be considerate. Let's start unfolding the hat with just solutions. We leave the fight for the rights of individuals and for private lawsuits according to the American example. This can't be used in our situation. There is no solution here in the country that is at the heart of Europe. This Europe, however, is consciously, in-depth, focusing on social responsibility for co-existence with the environment. It is not a question of whether the state will be able to afford compensation. It is the fact that a country which has in its constitutional provisions ascribed itself to be a legal and social state, and which has written down to care for a healthy living environment, are Articles 2 and 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So a country like this can't afford not to take compensation. It is life, the survival of offspring, and pure moral responsibility. Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also states that the law lays down under which conditions and to what extent the cause of damage in the living environment is obliged to remedy the damage. Therefore, future laws should be imposed in such a way as to take responsibility both for the State and for the companies and for the work organisations that have used harmful things uncontrolledly. In the next 35 years, we estimate that the number of mesothelioma diseases in the European Union will increase to 250,000. The consequences of the use of asbestos in Europe are therefore already beginning to get the right dimensions. The 1983 Directives in Europe set out a way of protecting workers from exposure to asbestos in the workplace. During the Spanish EU Presidency in 2002, the Committee of Ministers for Employment and Social Policy on the European Council drew up an additional legal regime to protect against asbestos exposure and its consequences. Europe has obviously been thinking about comprehensive solutions to the consequences for a long time. We should think more carefully about them. Due to the long latent period since the onset of asbestos disease in lung or pleural cancer, this may be 40 years or more. We have no concrete forecasts for Slovenia. Experts point out, however, that the peak of asbestos disease will occur around 2025 and will last until about 2040. In addition to the Soča valley, where the number of patients with malignant mesothelioma is still growing, there are two major hot spots in Slovenia. This is the north-eastern part of Ljubljana near Domžal and Maribor. In recent years, however, such a new focal point has also appeared in the stem pool, partly in Isola and a range of small focal points. Let me stress once again that the Republic of Slovenia should address and address the following problems under this law: comprehensively address the problem of occupational diseases from diagnosis to treatment, and in cases of death also regulate the compensation that would be justified for the patients. The environmental and social aspects of the consequences of asbestos exposure should be taken into account. The social responsibility of companies should be defined due to past harmful behaviour in relation to the environment and the population. They should establish a legal basis for the register of workers exposed to asbestos. The right to a disability pension must not be bound to invalidity II. or III. categories, as well as at the age of 50 years. It would be necessary to equalize the rights of compensation to all patients due to exposure to asbestos with fibre, irrespective of where he became ill. The law must in particular be a good and legal basis for solving problems in practice. A broader view of this problem is also needed. It is therefore essential to address additional education of health workers, raise awareness of the population, solve the problem of the disposal and storage of waste asbestos products, punish those who do not. Dear Members and Members! I think that the issue is sufficiently extensive and sufficiently substantiated to confirm support for opposition to this law, which in fact does not solve anything. Just one tiny piece. Not really. We have to say that this is the tip of the iceberg of what he saved. When a group of Members introduced this law into the procedure, it was set up substantially differently. What is before us today and what would apply today is, of course, distorted. So we can only assess this law in one way: that it is hypocrisy and pretense that something has been saved that has not been saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you, Dr. Zoltan. The request was addressed by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, at its 13th emergency meeting on 15.12. 11. that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decides again on the law. The Committee was informed of the request of the State Council and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the request and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the National Council presented the content to the members of the Committee, as we heard earlier. That's why I won't repeat it. The representative of the Government, however, presented the written opinion of the Government. The oral also shows that the Government does not agree with the reasons for the applicant's request for re-decision on the law. It therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the Act amending and supplementing the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with Asbestos be reinstated. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the request of the State Council for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos. With regard to the reasons and the requirements for re-decision, it considers that it concerns matters of a substantive nature. Therefore, within the framework of its business tasks, it is not defined by them. I am sure that the representative of the proposed law will explain his views on this request. That is why I will not repeat it in the property that was given to the parental committee. In the debate, some members of the Committee stressed that such a law could not be supported as it was so entangled that the rights were limited only to persons who had been sick only of mesothalioma until the end of the hearing. Neither the opposition nor the professional public agree with the law. Therefore, it is not enough that this is, in fact, a precedent for regulating aid for the surrounding population, as the problem is much broader. In their view, a system law should be drawn up. They will therefore propose a debate within the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to further address this issue. On the contrary, other members of the Committee opposed the request of the Council of State and expressed their support for the adopted law because they felt that the issues needed to be addressed responsibly. This law will allow compensation to be paid to those who have become sick of the worst form of asbestos-induced disease since 2007. However, some expressed support for the law. However, they considered that the solution to this problem really needed to be addressed in a system law, since such partial regulation in this law was unconstitutional. After the discussion, the members and members of the Committee also identified themselves until a decision was submitted proposing to the National Assembly that the law be confirmed in the re-decision. The decision did not receive majority support or was not adopted, since such a decision is analogous to that of the National Assembly, and an absolute majority must be gathered at the home work body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Magi Act. Mr Franz Žnidaršič for reasons of opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u50	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! On behalf of the signatories to this proposal, I must say that the purpose of the signatories was primarily to eliminate the discriminatory solution of the previously adopted law in the sense that they were covered as beneficiaries of compensation under the law only those who were professionally employed with asbestos and were professionally exposed to this Knox. We also wanted to justify the eligibility of all those who have suffered the consequences of exposure to asbestos damage who have not been employed in such jobs, where asbestos has been dealt with, but have come into contact with it and have experienced the consequences that can be exactly the same and, of course, the worst. From this point of view, we have prepared this amendment. However, at least two have appeared in further discussions. For the first time, in our conversation with the representatives of the Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports, we have found that this is not the exact same consequence when we are talking about those who have been exposed to this harm every day and for a long period of time, compared to those who have been accidentally exposed. Especially when it comes to diseases other than asbestos or mesothelioma. For example, breast cancer and similar things that are linked to the synergy of asbestos exposure and other possible effects and causes of such a disease. From this point of view, there was some agreement in the interview with the representative of the Institute that this worst form of mesothelioma was possible without these different views and findings being recognised as justification. This thing has moved on in this sense. At the same time, we also held talks with a representative of the government and the ministry, where, of course, there were several comments on our proposal in this sense that we are going to a width that cannot be determined to go to a width that will have unspent and unpredictable financial consequences. For this reason, there has been no support for our proposals that those who do not work or who do not work directly with asbestos in their professional life will also enforce exactly the same rights for diseases recognised in the law. From this point of view, we believe that there is not much that we have achieved. But it is something that would be a shame to reject and therefore support the law, even though only some will be able to come to their right. For we believe that the adopted law does not prevent anyone from preparing a comprehensive solution to any other open problems in this law that still need to be finalised. Nor did we have the ambition to solve everything, because we know that the problem is broader, that, in particular, asbestos patients from professional life wanted significantly broader changes and amendments to the law, but we have assessed that this will not be possible at this stage, and that is why we have followed our proposal, which was only in the sense of non-discrimination. I think it is right that this remains because it is the first case-by-case case of the citizen's right to receive compensation for environmental harm. However, I must say that the problem of this type is so wide that the title itself is a bad one, which says, the law on remedying consequences. We cannot undo the consequences; we can only mitigate the consequences that will continue if we want to or do not want to, in our negative sense of sickness, as well as death. From this point of view, we believe that this will have to be done more comprehensively and in agreement, as has been said, with all those affected who expect it. That is why we will insist on what we have accomplished, though little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much again, Mr President. The Act amending and supplementing the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work will be again supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We have the same opinion, as we have stressed through the procedure for adopting this novel, that the law is not consistent with the basic law by conceptual and intentional considerations, which has the effect that the whole Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos is contrary to itself, because the title and Article 1 of the Basic Law, which establishes the design and concept of the law, have remained unchanged, while the further part of the law changes with this amendment. It is not possible to challenge the veto of the State Council from a substantive point of view, but it would be far better and more successful to address the consequences of the harmful effects of asbestos use on the environment, in our firm belief, and on this basis also to recognise compensation for health problems, with a specific system law. This would generally address the removal of the effects of harmful substances in the environment and in this law could also be covered by its specific chapter on the environmental impact of asbestos use throughout the dimension and not only in the right to compensation for the worst disease caused by asbestos in the body, such as the application of this novelty. Under a specific law, a sufficient financial fund should also be set up to settle damages. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that it would be much better to maintain the Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Asbestos in Basic Conceptual Design as a law that solves the issue of occupational diseases, in which case occupational diseases in the workplace due to the impact of asbestos. In this respect, the basic law is not discriminatory in anything, so it is clear that the basic concept of the law on discrimination is entirely in the context. However, the questions and high expectations of the population due to negative environmental impacts are addressed in a comprehensive manner by special law, and regardless of this, the amendment of the law meets at least the expectations of those who have suffered the worst form of disease due to the impact of asbestos, and we will therefore, in the parliamentary group, as we have said in the first place, support the law unanimously once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much for the word and, of course, a very nice greeting to all present at today's meeting of the National Assembly. After almost a year of agony and, I'll say, juggling literally juggling patients with the fate of asbestos patients today, we're deciding on them again: patients, in fact, their fate. In the late evening hours of February this year, a government proposal for an asbestos law was adopted in this Chamber. A proposal that was not harmonised. The proposal, which in fact caused so much dissatisfaction; for this proposal has divided the people into those who worked with asbestos and those who lived on the other side of the factory fence, as we have heard and said several times. The opposition drew attention to the illegal government conduct under the bill. Asbestos patients, their representatives, the union, were also asked, and not least, to plead. The coalition has arrogantly ignored all requests, amendments and supported the law, the law that divides, the law that legitimizes two kinds of citizens. The Council of State voted, for the first time, vetoed government law, but this time the government coalition overcame the last warning under the legislative procedure. You know, respected colleagues and colleagues! Asbestos, people are dying. And when we are talking about the law on eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos, we are talking about the value or value of life, the value of life and the value of people in our society. The government has made a promise to prepare some kind of system law. If I simplify, the law, which will also include the environmental aspect of the problem. In 2006, we will end with a bitter taste that the Government does not really care and that the Government's law, which was introduced by the DeSUS Group of Members, has so much distorted or reduced to a minimum that only "for mouse hair" is better than government law, which is bad. This "mouse hair" -- I'm talking about illustrations -- actually does not help to solve the social situation of the patient or patients with the most difficult form of this disease, but it just means the moral obligation of the state to the patient. The law is precisely because for that "mouse hair" is better than government law, we supported the Slovenian National Party in a regular procedure. And I believe that this was also the lead of the other two opposition parties. However, the case also goes to some extent to the DeSUS Group, which, in fact, has very easily agreed to the government's deletion of the proposed solutions, as proposed by their law. Last week, when we were interpreting against the Minister of Health, for example, you were listening from the same parliamentary group, or by criticism, also to criticism at the expense of the stepmother's attitude towards asbestos patients. In presenting the views of the Slovenian National Party Group at the meeting of the National Assembly, I summarized the words of one of the residents of the affected environment, and I will repeat, allow, quote: "No one understands that we, therefore residents, have been exposed since 1921 asbestos and we did not even know. We lived there, we couldn't move, we couldn't raise the house and go to another place. The most exposed to asbestos were just around the factory about 1 kilometer radius." End of quote. Today I am reading the words, in fact, the begging of a group of nationals that this country still treats as second-class citizens. Again, allow me to read the quote or just part of the clue. "The vilified law brings certain rights to the natives who were not employed in the Salonite factory, but unfortunately only to the most difficult patients with mesothelioma. For those who are saying good - bye from life, the patch is to their inhuman, physical, and mental suffering. It is incomprehensible, however, that the people of the country are still deprived of their social-health rights for other asbestos diseases, those countries that lived 24 hours a day in an asbestos-controlled environment." The peak and the end of the clue. And then, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I read how proud some Members are to note that this novel is a precedent. Seriously! The right to compensation will also be exercised by those who have not been employed in undertakings where they have been exposed to harmful effects. I'm asking, is this really about the noble operation of the government? The solution that is proposed in this law, which is reduced, as I have already said, to that extreme minimum, is to say only compensation for baptism, respected colleagues and colleagues, does not value wounds and does not help those patients who have hope ahead of them and perhaps a month more of life. And as I read further, I read the report or things that happened on my mother's working body. This same man, who is proud and even says that this is a precedent in our country, believes that the adoption of the novel could encourage the environment ministry to draw up a system-wide law on the harmful effects of the environment on people. And yet I wonder, really, when, for whom? You know, the Slovenian People's Party, the SDS, the New Slovenia that you are pronouncing, I will say that you are voicing that it is better to adopt a system law on harmful environmental impacts. I am interested at this point in time, and I would like to ask, perhaps in further discussions, an answer, a concrete answer. What is the Government's strategy in this area? When will such a law be finally prepared, and what will it be like? I don't understand the constant opposition and sweeping, literally sweeping things under the rug. The proposal of the opposition on the home working body was that after a new year, after an extraordinary meeting of the committee, the asbestos problem should be discussed again, together with the representatives of the sick, the ministries and, lastly, the various professions. Where there is will, there is a way, a real Slovenian proverb. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, last but not least, give the opportunity for the meeting to be convened or that the meeting may be convened after the decision of the Chairman of the home working body, the meeting of the home working committee. That's why I used that saying, "Where there's a will, there's a way. But unfortunately, there is obviously no will in this House. I also do not understand the observation of those who claimed on the parent's working body that the dissemination of rights could open up room for the exercise of patients' rights in other areas, which could have unforeseeable financial consequences and, last but not least, legal consequences. I ask again how, of course, the Government will prepare a systemic solution in the area of the harmful effects of the environment on people. This measure, too, should be prepared by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly, will require new funding. As I understand it, it should include different categories of affected people due to the harmful effects of the environment on human health. You know, these findings actually give me confirmation that the intentions of systemic solutions are more or less excusable fiction and are very far from reality. The new Minister, who is with us today, at the time still in the role of State Secretary at the Ministry, has in fact rejected all arguments, rejecting today the State Council's arguments, which have led to a veto vote on the law, that the novelty constitutes an appropriate legal basis for resolving the problem. About the system law, respectable colleagues and colleagues, not the spirit, not the hearing. Is this really the basis for solving the problems of people who have developed asbestosism? And those who report to the opposition that they are not cooperating constructively, not proposing reasoned solutions. I don't know if you got all this mail, but I got it, and I'm sorry you can't see it any more. In this picture is a view from the roof of the asbestos hall to the old cementery. The photograph is not a recording of the snowy idyllic, it is attributed below, but are visible layers of asbestos. This is one picture, followed by another picture, and a third image. These aren't cotton fields written, but one of the roofs in the neighborhood of the asbestos tent. That's the reality, dear colleagues and colleagues. And allow only and only one more information from this letter that I received. In Soča, we send between 3,500 and 4,000 cubic metres of waste water per day, contaminated with cement and asbestos. I ask, is this law, supported by the Government, really the right basis for solving the problems of people who die because of asbestos? I'm going to go back to the sentence I said before I went to the letter or material I received by mail when I said that some of the government's clients were reading the opposition not to propose a reasoned solution. You know, even on the basis of such concrete data, on the basis of such a reality, we have prepared concrete solutions in the opposition, and in the form of amendments, you have grieved them, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, today it is estimated that in the event of a successful veto, patients’ rights will be reduced! Facts, facts! What have you done, fellow Members of the Coalition and Members, with the support of government law and the support of the reduction of rights under this law, which we are dealing with today, while in the context of the voted veto on the law? You know, you didn't want these facts back then, or you just didn't realize them, and it's sad, it's sad that you don't want to be aware of them today. Allow me to conclude, I liked the statement by the representative of the State Council at the presentation today at a meeting that said that such government conduct was hypocrisy. Yeah, it's hypocrisy. But being loyal to injustice is not only a hypocritical act, but a very ugly, dishonest, and vile act. It's not just the context, it's the content that's important, and it's not good for people. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you. Master Franz Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Unlike Mrs Žgajner Tavš, we will not dispute with her parliamentary group on this occasion, because this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We want to say that we will support this law in the parliamentary group for a number of reasons, the main thing is that there is, however, some slight improvement in the existing law, while we are aware that the law will not solve all the problems in this area and that much work will be needed as well. We believe that this work will be done in due course and that the Ministry will prepare with the affected coordinated proposal a novel that will solve most of the problems and problems that the professionals and, of course, think need to be addressed. Surely we did not have bad intentions when we expect a system law to be drawn up that will address the adverse effects on the environment by the Ministry of Environment and Space, because we believe that there is still much work to be done in this area and that our environment from day to day, and from this point of view, we need a law that will impose on all citizens, all businesses, all structures, all in civil society and all others in this country to protect this environment, while at the same time imposing sanctions on those who do not respect the required behaviour so that the environment would not be harmful and that it would not cause more damage to human health and also human life. By supporting this law, we do not underestimate the harmful effects of this nail, we are aware of this and will therefore support any further changes that will go in the direction of solving this problem. We also believe that the existing law, if approved, is not an obstacle to the preparation and resolution of new solutions that we have not been able to do with this law. Certainly, however, the DeSUS Group takes into account that, at a given time, it is better to achieve a minimum than to fail with a maximum. From this point of view, we have been supporting this law all the time, so that at least some of the donkeys have little positiveness from it, and it is accepted and I think that, although only one stone in the mosaic is a very large and very difficult problem to solve together. As a result, we will support this law in the hope that the next steps will come soon and will produce more fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected congregation, a respected representative of the Council of State, the well-respected remaining present! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will once again support the amendment of the law, which actually represents an additional step towards addressing the asbestos problem within the framework of predictable and assessed needs and the requirements of the injured, as well as budgetary capabilities. This novelty therefore gives, in particular, the possibility of exercising rights because of the harmful effect of asbestos on human health, also to persons who have been exposed to asbestos. After a thorough examination of the debate in the State Council, on the basis of which the State Council has adopted a procrastination veto, we are even more convinced in our Group that the comprehensive resolution of asbestos issues is indeed a difficult and complex professional issue, as the magnetogram shows that the Commissions and stakeholders of the State Council are not united and have not proposed concrete substantive improvements on an expert basis. Only such and different general thoughts and suggestions as can be seen from the magnetogram are too few to supplement the marriage. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, at the time of the preparation and legislative procedure for the adoption of the basic law, as well as the amendment of the law, we discussed and sought solutions to how to include the population in the basic law. However, no solution could be justified on the basis of uniform professional grounds, with specific criteria for distance from the asbestos production centre, or a realistic assessment of the potential number of patients with asbestos diseases in the coming years and decades. However, all these dilemmas and questions were not answered by the debate or by the conclusions of the meeting of the State Council. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has repeatedly asked us how to determine the area of asbestos exposure in order to be professionally justified, fair and fair to all inhabitants. And what will happen to those who remain within the bounds of a certain area who will suffer from asbestos disease? The only solution is therefore to extend the area to the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment of the law, the co-signatory of which is also a member of our parliamentary group, thus solves the dilemma by allowing rights under the basic law to be granted to persons residing in Slovenia who have become sick of mesothelioma due to exposure to asbestos in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The interdisciplinary group, however, will find a causal link between asbestos exposure and mesothelioma exposure, by limiting the proposal only to patients with mesothelioma, which is the worst asbestos disease, but not to other easier forms of asbestos disease. We are therefore again faced with the dilemma of fairness towards all potentially ill persons, both for the more difficult and easier forms of asbestos diseases on the one hand and the unpredictability of the number of patients and thus certain professional, organisational and, lastly, financial consequences on the other. We also face the dilemma of violating the principle of equality and justice to all those who are sick and potentially ill in the Republic of Slovenia because of exposure to different forms of contaminated and poisoned air and environment. The proposed novel is indeed a compromise within the scope of the possibility and, in the view of our Group, it is only an acceptable transitional solution, which is included in the addition of the basic law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, the fundamental purpose of which is to regulate legally the problem of employees or former employees who are or will be sicker or more seriously affected by asbestos diseases. So it's about occupational diseases. However, in order to regulate the problem of the disease of the population legally, we were obliged to think and act towards the preparation of a system law on the elimination of the consequences of the polluted and poisoned environment that endangers health and life throughout the Republic of Slovenia, the cameras also include asbestos or pollution with asbestos fibres and asbestos products. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will always support concrete initiatives and professional solutions in this direction. In the parliamentary group, we do not support the adoption of a supplement to the asbestos law, which opens up the proposed novelty and gives the possibility to residents living or living near asbestos fibres of the polluted air and the environment. We will also not support solutions that are neither professional nor realistic, but even less just and fair to all affected people of the Republic of Slovenia because of the polluted and poisoned environment. We will also support further possible additions and improvements to the basic asbestos law, which will be opened mainly from the point of view of the profession, and that the implementation of the law will be technically, organisationally and financially manageable. This requires a clear definition of the objectives, uniformity of the profession and the will and time to find suitable, fair and acceptable solutions in an agreement between responsible government services and authorised partners by asbestos patients and injured persons. By rejecting the amendment of the law, the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia who are or will be ill because of the environmental exposure of asbestos would be totally excluded, thus also excluding the possibility of their enforcement of legal rights. This is totally unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Therefore, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work will be reiterated today. It is the first, although a small step towards further finding better solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Representative of the Council of State, distinguished colleague and colleague! In this mandate, the National Assembly has considered and adopted a fourth law regulating the legal framework for the recovery of the consequences caused by decades of long-term production of asbestos products. For the fourth time in this mandate, we will speak again about this content, which in itself speaks about how we have proposed solutions professionally so far. That is why we agree with the opinion of the Council of State that the way in which the consequences of asbestos production without social dialogue are addressed points to the transfer of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the rejection of all attempts to address this issue in a comprehensive manner. In the LDS, we are of course convinced that responsibility must be shared among the ruling coalition. The justification for opposing the comprehensive resolution of the consequences of the use of asbestos with the view that, by means of a specific system law on the elimination of the effects of environmental pollution with all hazardous substances, all other issues of addressing the consequences of the production and use of asbestos should also be addressed and assessed as knowingly evading responsibility and moving these problems to an indefinite future. Since we have been trying to regulate this area for the fourth time in less than two years, the positions of the Government, political parties and associations of affected persons are well known, but I would like to reiterate once again the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that the amendment of the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos, which, at the request of the State Council, will be re-decisiond, despite the fact that the equalisation of persons who have suffered from mesothalioma does not guarantee equal rights for all people who have been or will be affected by asbestos dust exposure. It is still important whether the affected person has been exposed to asbestos dust within factory fences or has been exposed to that same asbestos powder outside these factory fences. The bill's proponents themselves have explained that this is not a professionally supported solution, but a maximum possible decision, which the Government and the existing government coalition allow. In this warning that the solution is not comprehensive and continues to distinguish between those affected by exposed asbestos always encounters deaf ears. Members of the LDS have already tried to enforce the principle that asbestos victims are not separated from each other and that the rights already acquired from the 1996 law cannot be reduced. These were the key justifications for the submission of amendments to the LDS Group. The ruling coalition rejected all proposed amendments and did not listen to the State Council's arguments. By its request for a re-decision on the law, which is almost entirely repeated even in the case of this re-decision request, it justified in particular the fact that the law did not take into account the compensation for damage to the health of the population who were exposed to asbestos dust in the area of the business premises of the companies where asbestos was processed or stored, that the law did not provide sufficient social security for the sick and even deprive them of the rights to make a difference between the patients who had been sick for the same reason and that the law did not guarantee the right to compensation to the heirs of the deceased. In the LDS, we have prepared, in the light of all the tragic consequences of the mass production of asbestos products, after the enforcement of the current law, its novelism, which has been applying the principles already mentioned to ensure that asbestos is not separated from the victims and that the rights already acquired are maintained. However, the President of the National Assembly did not unjustifiably allow the opening of a legislative procedure, arguing that the 2006 and 2007 State budget did not provide funds for the implementation of this law. This was not a problem in the case of the bill proposed by the members of the coalition parties, which we will be deciding again today. For it is quite clear that the Government and the ruling coalition are consistently and with all their power preventing any attempt to settle this area and thereby definitively determine the status and rights of all asbestos victims. This, last but not least, proves the rejection of the amendment to the 2007 budget, which provided the necessary resources for the implementation of the law to the extent laid down by the amendments already mentioned in the draft basic law proposed by the LDS Club and the Social Democrats Group. Despite all the rejections by the ruling coalition, we welcomed the intention of one of the coalition parties, who would even have the support of the Prime Minister of the Government to draw up his proposal for a law to remedy the injustices that he imposed this March. Unfortunately, it was gradually revealed that the ruling coalition with the bill simply wanted to create the impression that it was correcting the law in the direction of the justified requirements of asbestos patients. At the outset, it presented an examination of the bill to the competent working body of the National Assembly, and then, with the amendments, most of the content of the draft law became void. Also in this bill, in the LDS Parliamentary Club, together with the Group of Social Democrats, we have drawn up appropriate amendments, with which we once again, but in vain, have tried to eliminate the separation of asbestos victims and to re-establish some of the rights that the beneficiaries received from the 1996 law. The new law, which we are re-declaring today, is only governed by the rights of persons who, irrespective of the place of contamination, have only suffered from mesothelioma. The long-term effort of asbestos patients obliges us not to support the law in re-decision, since their and our demands are narrowed to a minimum. The problems of the law are not regulated in a comprehensive way; they still distinguish between those affected by asbestos exposure. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we therefore reiterate on this occasion that we will continue to strive to ensure that the justified requirements are not forgotten because of asbestos exposure, along with the problem of asbestos pollution. We will therefore seek further ways to continue to address the problem of asbestos and the consequences of its action in Slovenia with the aim of making the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately and sincerely prepare more appropriate solutions, including the announced system law, which will fully regulate asbestos issues throughout our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The asbestos saga has been continuing for several months in the worst possible way. The current way of resolving this problem has proved unsuccessful since the basic law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work has already been adopted by voting against the affected, opposition and veto of the State Council. If it is confirmed at the time of the re-decision, the same will apply to the amendment of the law proposed by the group of coalition members. We are all aware that this is an extremely sensitive issue because we are talking about the ruined health and tragic fates of people. It seems unacceptable for us to create a feeling among the affected that the country wants to put the problem under the carpet instead of solving it for the benefit of the affected. In recent discussions at the Committee and the National Assembly, there has often been a feeling that there is a lack of adequate professional basis to address certain segments of asbestos or that the Government has one type of data and professional basis and is affected by another. We have therefore proposed that, at an extraordinary meeting of the parent committee to invite representatives of the sick, representatives of ministries concerned in a certain way, I think of work, family and social affairs, health, environment and the economy, and representatives of different professions - and face our views. We believe that in this way the problem of asbestos could be enlightened and found guidelines for its resolution. We propose to the Committee of the National Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons the following starting points or conclusions. First time. The National Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, proposes that, in cooperation with representatives of the social partners and with health and social expertise, a system law be drawn up which will fully regulate asbestos issues throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Another time. The system law, which will fully regulate asbestos issues throughout the Republic of Slovenia, shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly by 1 July 2007. And the third time. This law should take into account the environmental and social aspects of the consequences of the use and exposure of asbestos, equalize the right of the sick to compensation, irrespective of the circumstances of the concept of cancer or other diseases resulting from exposure to asbestos, to determine the social responsibility of economic companies due to past environmental and population harmful behaviour, that societies, together with the State, should cover compensation to the affected persons. Early detection of asbestos lung disease through an illegal register of workers should be possible. The right to early retirement of persons with asbestos exposure should be exclusively linked to a certified disease. The right to a disability pension should not be bound to the identified disability of the second or third category, nor to the age of 50. The right to adequate compensation should also be granted to legal heirs to be affected by persons. Finally, ensure that a representative of the affected persons is represented in the Interdepartmental Group. Regardless of the final result of today's result, we can all be dissatisfied. We couldn't even imagine the worst pessimists. In fact, there is little left of the basic law proposed by a group of coalition members. The law is not in line with the social partners, nor with the medical profession, nor has there been political agreement between the coalition and the opposition. Nevertheless, I think that, while well-intentioned reading of the September 2006 government opinion, and in particular the 2004 opinion, there could be new solutions that would be European comparable and financially manageable for the state budget. I think it is still time to reconsider the asbestos problem, especially in terms of environmental exposure to the harmful effects of asbestos, and next year I think it is possible to adopt a second amendment to this law. It's over. Systemic solutions will urgently need to be found to provide state aid and adequate preventive health care for other occupational diseases of employees and for those affected by industrial pollution or other forms of environmental pollution from asbestos and mercury to lead and radon. That is why we expect in the Social Democrats' Group the early reference of the Home Committee for this area. We cannot support the law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, representative of the Council of State, distinguished fellow Member and Members and, of course, all those who accompany us here on the balcony today! I think we've really been repeating this story for the third or fourth time, and we're all talking about each other in order. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we have already said in the previous adoption of the law that we will support such a law, as well as the one that was adopted in March this year. With the law we passed in March this year, we extended the rights of asbestos patients not only to those who process, but also to those who work more broadly in establishments where asbestos is used, storage, installation or disposal. This means that we have extended this right. All those who say that this right has shrunk are deceiving the public, and that is simply not true. But we have already said that we are aware that a certain problem is asbestos in the environment and that what happens to those who suffer from such diseases due to asbestos in the environment. At the same time, we also drew attention to other environmental diseases, which are large, not only asbestos, but also other diseases. In order to resolve at least part of this problem, our fellow Member Cyril Testen was among the co-signors of the current bill that solves this, namely, for those in the environment who suffer the most serious form, mesothelioma, although already after the law we passed in March, all of them have the opportunity to achieve, through the action, the settlement or repair of the damage they suffer, if we can even speak of damage in this case, of course. That's a very difficult question. And here behind this counter, it is very easy to have short and passionate speeches, enthusiasm and something to suggest, and the question is how to solve this complex and comprehensively. For the extension to the rest of the rights and to the whole of Slovenia and to what has been heard here and what has been heard by the representative of the Council of State would mean for the Republic of Slovenia unforeseeable financial effects; at this point the unforeseeable financial effects, although I say that we are aware that this problem will have to be resolved in a fair manner, because what is happening to us now is a result of more than a hundred years of use of asbestos and all that we have done with asbestos in the environment in which we all live. The representative of the Council of State said that they had vetoed the vote for three reasons. The first reason they mention it is that this right applies only to those who have had mesothelioma. Another reason for not being able to retire prematurely with a second and third disability is that they mention compensation for relatives in the event of death. At the same time, while the Council of State has decided to do so, the representative of the Council of State also said from this city that in the State Council they are aware that it is a complex problem, that it is an environmental problem, that it is an heritage of the past, and that not only the state should contribute to this heritage of the past, but also all those economic industries that are this heritage and this situation in the past and today. How to find this form of financial commitment, so that both the State and those who produce and use asbestos will participate in this, and neither the opposition nor the State Council will tell until now. All they say is that the state should give more when we meet with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and then by the same members of the opposition we hear in the National Assembly that the state spends too much on public spending, that it is necessary to reduce these costs, that more should be given for development, more for science, more for investment and so on. So I would suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that we pour ourselves some pure wine and, in fact, we tell the truth and honestly what we can do today, what tomorrow and what tomorrow, and what we can do in this country at this point. In New Slovenia, we agree with what the representative of the State Council has said, that the issue of occupational diseases must be fully addressed, saying that it is not only an asbestos issue, but also some others; that it is necessary to take into account the environmental and social aspects, not only asbestos, but also other environmental diseases; that it is the responsibility of all those companies that use this material in their work; that a register should be made, both exposed to asbestos and other environmental diseases, and that more education in the field of health, public education and the like should be implemented in this area. However, we are still far from this, ladies and gentlemen, that in this country we will be able to replace everything that is still asbestos today. May ladies and gentlemen, those who talk about replacing all the asbestos roofs, all the water pipes and everything they say here in this room, imagine whether they are serious when they propose it. Where are we gonna take the financial resources to do all this? But it is true that these issues will have to be settled in a distant future. So, today, as far as New Slovenia is concerned, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members. We'll go in order. I'll call those who are in the hall. Mr. Clavor has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! When I listened to the views of individual parliamentary groups as well as the proposer, I was reluctant to think about how things were going throughout the year. I think that our thoughts, the four of us from our parliamentary group, have told us what we think about asbestos, what we think about the consequences of asbestos, and that's why we've decided then, and we've also made this public before the entire National Assembly, what we're going to do -- write a new novel on asbestos law and present it to the National Assembly. That's what we did. We are not aware of the fact that we are an expert group, although we are of the four doctors, as is not the expert group of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, if there is one doctor or the Health Committee, if there is one doctor in this Health Committee. Get away from it! If I knew this issue well, I was faced with all the problems that have arisen in the debate, last year and also this year, before I got any new information, because I knew little about it. I knew how patients died from asbestos, but I didn't know how the legislation was going in this area. I didn't even know what the expert was thinking. I mean, the medical expert who's doing this. I'm not a pulmologist myself, I'm not a specialist in this matter. That's why I got to learn about it. When I talked about this with one of the most outstanding experts in this field in Slovenia, I felt that she had given me a lot of insight into this. And I was grateful to her that I had come to realize that this was not an easy matter to solve. That is why I also expected when we wrote a novel on the law and when our first-signed colleague, Žnidaršič, handed it over to the Ministry of Field Affairs in question, to respond to our initiative very soon. Here I said that in an interview with the President of the Government - he promised us all the support in this work. That's why I thought those words would apply to the departmental department. We've been waiting about two months to get our first answer. Our parliamentary group is not the one to prepare professional matters and professional solutions to this problem, there are doctors specialists, there is an institute, there is a pile, there are also two departments - the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Environment. I would almost sign, regardless of whether we are separated here by a client line, under what Mr Bevk said today in points. I'd like to sign! And believe me, it won't be good if we discuss in here what one and the other parties think. It's a problem, it's a state-created problem where everyone's involved, not who's gonna be who. Therefore, I think that this matter proposed by Mr Bevk, who has been dealing with this issue for a long time, has been extremely constructive. What will we have to do? I hope, Madam Minister, that you will accept our initiatives. I say my own opinion: I am satisfied, I am satisfied only after talking with the representatives of the sick countrymen who were at my office. When I told them that we couldn't achieve any more than that, they said, "We're also satisfied with this, at least some confession." See, it was mentioned earlier that this has been resolved so that patients with mesothelioma can sue. Have any of you seen a patient with mesothelioma? Therefore, I find such remarks pointless and I think that this has been done only one step further, just one step further, so that we have allowed these people to come to their rights, to very, very sad rights. But as for other asbestos diseases, from those that cause no change, no symptoms and are hardly considered a disease, to those who are already a disease, to those who are a severe disease, I talk about plaques, I talk about pulmonary asbestososis, fibrosis and so on, when the pulmonary function is already impaired, that is another matter. I believe that the Ministry of Labour and Family will not solve this problem without the Ministry of Health, because the diagnosis is important. If there is no diagnosis, then somewhere we can't even give the recognition that people want. Diagnosis can be different. That is why I believe and do not repeat that, let us elect a new commission that will continue to work and will elect two more committees, but I only believe that it would be necessary immediately after the Ministry of Labour initiative to join this work immediately, as has been said. I agree with Mr Bevk, who even proposed in July, if I am not mistaken that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Environment should approach the drafting of a better law, which will include the environmental population, with this comment, as I have said, an accurate diagnosis is needed. But as for the other diseases that are caused by the environment, you've talked a lot about them, and no one's said anything like an example yet, I haven't heard from her. Sometimes it was said that mercury, Idrija, is no longer a problem, but let us now solve the problem that is really the problem where we have the hotspots, we talk about the whole of Slovenia and not only about Anhove, Anhovo is the hottest problem that has the most of these cases. If we have at times said that mesothelioma appears one to two cases per million inhabitants, this number is high because of Anhove and other smaller hotspots throughout Slovenia and is certainly with asbestos pollution. So I'm going to ask, I'm going to support this law myself, because I've been convinced by the residents who were at the interview and I've been talking to them. If I support this, they'll get what's theirs on January 1st. A small step forward, but the situation is still very complicated, it is not easy. In recent times, as regards mesothelioma and asbestos fibres, there has also been some medical news that the digestive tract cancer in relation to asbestos has not yet been confirmed, but that medicine has not yet fully been used in the terminology of gastrointestinal cancer, but this occurs, further complicates the whole situation. The incidence of digestive tract or, say, colon cancer is very high in Slovenia, so please, it is not only the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that can work on this problem, the Ministry of Health and also the Ministry of the Environment must also be involved, but seriously and from this step forward, if we have taken up the mesothelioma, forward and forward and do not give up. We don't talk, we have other environmental diseases. This environmental disease is present, here is the problem, there are patients, there are dying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is difficult to say anything further in support of the validity of this law, the best of which was said by his colleague Klavor earlier when he quoted the inhabitants - "We are satisfied with this too." - Of course, and especially those affected by these diseases can and always expect more. The Council of State has probably taken advantage of the fact that it is able to provide additional documents, as well as circumstances and developments related to such diseases. I read it myself. I would also like to say this earlier, it is not rational not to accept this improvement of the law, but appropriate legislation is to be prepared since 1994. It was adopted this year, and it is now improving in the same year. And it's not rational, except that we're still talking about this and that we're looking for ways and somehow trying to speed up the resolution of other similar diseases, especially those related to work or now more by someone doing activity in an area where asbestos was. It is frightening that in Europe up to 250,000 patients in the coming years with mesothelioma are expected to suffer. I don't know how much statistics make it fall to Slovenia, but the number is really scary, maybe it's from 400 million people. But I fear that the dissemination of rights that are not professionally completely incontrovertible could lead to equal constitutional rights for certain other diseases, in accordance with equality of treatment. It is also very dangerous, even though it may be from the point of view of the countries or even the affected, but especially the affected ones, if all the consequences of such diseases are reversed from the relevant legislation to the causer, to the economy, to the producers of certain chemicals. This is also a very dangerous path easy for the economy. In Slovenia, there are also increasingly different lawsuits for which you do not need an appropriate legal basis, and you can get this action in a similar way as that in the United States of America. I am afraid and, of course, we are talking about these latent, including other diseases, which we will only learn in the future that they are actually a major cause of our poor health. Consumers are forced by the company to obtain more and cheaper food by technology and by appropriate chemical means and procedures. With new, more modern devices containing substances and chemicals that are our everyday environment and the objects we work with, they probably also pose a serious threat to our health, in addition to our way of life, where we are threatening ourselves; we are not moving too much in nature, we are not living healthy enough, we are not living in the way that people have lived in some original forms. All of this, however, prolongs our lives and, of course, threatens us with the diseases that are probably caused by those who use this kind of science to produce something cheaper, to produce something easier and then to sell it on the market. And in fact, this latent danger, which may already be embedded in our health, will only occur. It is difficult for me to imagine, but I think that there will be a need for more scientific cooperation here, experts, to identify those cases for which they would actually be beneficiaries, saying that they would have the possibility, on a legal basis and professional conclusions, to request adequate compensation or from the Causer or, as mentioned by the State Council, subsidiaryly, if that Causer is not able to fully repay compensation or is unwilling or otherwise, then the State, it is all said, the whole Society, taxpayers. This interdisciplinary process of undisputed identification and then incorporation into legislation must be thorough and responsible. I believe that this public debate could, in fact, raise the awareness of industry, not only in Slovenia or Europe, but throughout the world, that there is some important responsibility here for the cause. Perhaps then it should be done so that all products that could possibly cause - of course, which are, again, a question - should be taxed in some way and should form a specific fund from which such responsibilities could then be paid. However, there is certainly no alternative at this time, given that we are in the veto of the State Council, as if we were to reject this veto and that the law is enforced and that at least this, as it is said, improves the rights of these patients with mesothelioma and they are entitled to it. I will stand alone against the veto of the State Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u70	I'm afraid I'm gonna have to repeat myself a little bit. With the session, when we consider, let's call it asbestos law, because the whole series is, over and over again, no one from the government coalition in particular wants to stop at the fact that we have in this constitution, as well as in the Constitution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, has been similarly written down, it has been written that all citizens of this country have the right to a healthy living environment, and more importantly, as stated in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article - the country is concerned about a healthy living environment. To this end, the law lays down the conditions and methods for carrying out economic and other activities. The law lays down the conditions under which and to what extent the cause of damage in the living environment is obliged to compensate for the damage. I wouldn't talk about animal protection because I think they'd come so far as to say that man in this country is sometimes less valuable than an animal. And why am I saying this? Because every law that we Members are pursuing and touching the area of the polluted environment that the State has in fact caused indirectly because it has failed to ensure that in the environment in which we live there are no substances that cause such or other diseases, especially very often very serious diseases. One of the groups of these diseases is all the diseases caused by asbestos, and we keep spinning around like a cat around hot porridge when we talk about asbestos being the cause of a whole type of disease, but not just in the working environment where asbestos was used once. The fact is that asbestos is the substance that we are surrounded by in everyday life. I want to remind you of those who are closer to my age than those who are younger. In irons, which we used to help our mothers fix as children, there was sometimes asbestos and we rejoiced when we "screw" the iron and we cheerfully opened and repaired it and watched how it was made, we also inhaled asbestos fibers. Interesting, isn't it? So you didn't have to be at work in Salonito Anhovo, you didn't have to be at work in railway workshops, you didn't have to be at work, like, the factory where the brake linings were made. No, no, no. It was enough that as a child, you were involved in amateur activities with such activities, activities where you could come into contact with asbestos. Because it doesn't measure how much time and amount of asbestos a person breathes in to get asbestos. One way or another, sweeter shapes or the worst, such as mesothelioma. And that is why I say and repeat, and I will always repeat to the point that the country is responsible for the fact that we have not stopped the production of asbestos-containing products used as asbestos raw materials until ten years ago. Surely this is the fault of the state, no one will say, I do not want to defend producers, employers who had a working environment in which dangerous substances appeared or appeared, despite the fact that these dangerous substances are prohibited by law. If the country prohibited the use of asbestos in any production and production of asbestos-containing products 40 years ago, then you could say and even so in Salonite Anhovo, in TVT Maribor, and I do not know where else they used asbestos, then you could say that this employer and these employers are responsible for the fact that workers in these factories worked in an environment where asbestos fibres were in the air. Since the country did not do so, but did not do so only ten years ago and did not do so today to prevent workers from being subjected to asbestos in the Shipyard of Izola from being exposed to asbestos - there is still the greatest irony that there are dozens of workers who are not even Slovenian citizens who are on temporary work in Slovenia and who will carry their asbestos to Croatia, Bosnia or wherever they have already come. We will not then wonder whether it is our fault, whether it is our employer's fault, whether the person will have asbestososis, in the extreme case also mesothelioma, man is, whether he is a citizen of Slovenia, or a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Croatia. Therefore, I think it is sad, if not even shameful, that we are by law, which has been imposed in this sense, that everyone who has proven to be sick of asbestos, whether he has worked or not, in an environment where he has been exposed to asbestos, has the right to fair compensation, that we have finally agreed as a state to pay compensation only to those people who are virtually already sentenced to very early and very quick settlement. Here I think it's the highlight of not saying cynicism that we're dealing with this problem in this way. I don't want to be dramatic, I just want to say that even with lead, even with mercury, even with, I don't know, all these different materials or substances that cause disease, but not only in the working environment, but also outside it, because our environment is full of all kinds of dangerous substances, toxic substances, harmful substances. I think it will have to be taken seriously, and above all, I think that not even at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but in particular at the Ministry of Health, that we will finally once again address the qualifications of all occupational diseases and the qualifications of diseases caused by harmful substances in the environment, which this country and the previous countries have not made sure that they do not appear in the environment. Here I think we're going to have to take one big step forward. I will now say something when we speak when we have had a very interesting debate on the interpretation of the Minister of Health, when there was a speech on vaccination against the papilloma virus. This is not a harmful substance that has already come into the environment because of negligence of the state or anyone, and therefore women get sick of a particular disease. However, when the state thinks about how much something costs, there is some action, some activity that reduces the damage is always given to the scale, the extent to which the damage is, if we remove the causes or the costs, if we remove the causes, and the cost, if we eliminate the consequences. Also in the case of diseases caused by environmental agents, it is right to check the extent to which the costs are preventable to reduce these impacts from the environment and how much the costs of eliminating the consequences are. When talking about asbestos, the state has never placed on the scale that the costs of removing the effects from the environment are significantly lower than the costs of remedying the consequences. Because it simply did not seem important to them because the country always thought that any government would be much easier to silence the truth, that it would be much easier to push people, even Members, that they would withdraw, and that they would not pressure, that the consequences would be settled, that the injustice would be settled, but that we would be quiet and that we would retreat, just as they had retreated to that step that was not a step, but that is a step that is similar to those steps made by ballets when they danced on their toes. A step that's really very small, I don't know if it's two millimeters long. And that is why I think it is right that, as a group of Members, we have decided not to support this law, that we will be vetoed or against the law. What's gonna happen is gonna happen. However, I can say that in this term this National Assembly and this Government, concerning asbestos and the settlement of injustices, will not end because this country has been neglectful to them and to our environment. By the end of the term of office, we will be considering proposals for a law on the prevention of consequences or on the settlement of damage caused by the use of asbestos in production in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! For the fourth time, we all say the same things together, for the fourth time we're trying to help people, but it's true that we're doing it for the first time in front of the new minister. In front of the new minister, who, at least in some things, has indicated some changes, but as far as we can monitor the matter today, this law we are considering does not intend to do so. As far as I'm aware, I'm going to turn to you first, you were also one of the potential candidates for the Ombudsman. This means that you wanted or were willing to defend human rights for all people in this country without making human selection. But this marriage, distinguished Madam Minister, makes a selection. People get divorced. Not by sex, not by faith, not by race, but by disease. I would very much like to hear from your mouth if you hope before these Members and in front of these people that the smaller form of asbestos is so much less valuable that we cannot take it into account in this law. I think we have to. It's not people's fault, it's not people's fault if they lived around factories where it was done, acted and used asbestos, and this asbestos dust spread around the area. They're not guilty. This is the happiness of some who are not covered by this law, but we believe that they should not be given the worst form of disease. As such, the law provides for compensation only to those who actually die. And here in this law you make selections between people. And this selection, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, does not seem acceptable to us, at least as long as you do have this feeling, which you were confident of when you applied as a candidate for the Ombudsman, then this selection must not be. The law must cover all people who have, in any way and in any way, suffered from asbestos disease. I hope that we will no longer prolong the agony of this law, as we have heard, and the minimal, very small step forward of this law is still working. However, the system law is supposed to regulate everything else, but I have not heard from anyone who advocates this law today in this House when this system law will be and what will be the new content. I believe that our government is not so awkward when it speaks of preparing a system law, that it does not know what will happen to it today and when it will propose it. I believe that this government is not so awkward unless it wants to hide something from us or hopes to tell us or prepares a system law. But in this case, I'm going to use one harsh word, you're lying to us and to people who hope, and you can't afford it, in any case you can't afford it. As my fellow Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš said in the opening presentation, we will not be supporting the law again in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u74	Dear Mr President, distinguished Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The law that we are discussing today has, in fact, experienced some kind of regression in its development. Instead of developing nicely, as was the case in 1996, and then adding up until last year, even in last year’s draft, the matter was, of course, better solved than it was later actually beginning to experience a distortion. And the last twist is actually to select patients who have got sick because of working with asbestos or because of living in an asbestos environment to a minimum. I don't know if this is a small step forward, it certainly isn't forward, maybe it's aside, because in some ways it's dividing people by disease. The argument I find most perverse to vote against the veto or to vote in favour is that people are satisfied. You people have starved their hopes. That's what happened in these months, starving. Sometimes the old mother said, three days nothing, and the dry pears would be good; and that's what happened now. You have taken their hope and, of course, now boast about how pleased they can be. For this reason, it is necessary to vote against such perversion. This is not the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos, on the Protection of Asbestos Patients; this is the Law on the Protection of the Budget and Owners of Anhove. That's the law. This reduction, of course, went this way, and when you say that the two ministries in question should agree on this, no, it's not true, three have to, including the Ministry of Finance. It must have actually caused that reduction at the beginning of this year. I don't know who would, or I doubt there's any evil in the back. I think it's money back here, but on the other hand, we've been hearing for a month now, on every question Janez Janša, in what good condition - economic, economic, financial - this country is how we're doing, how we're doing, how we're doing, how we're doing with the money, obviously. Yes, but then we also use this for such critical issues as asbestos and other diseases. We can't talk one way, we can't do another. Once again, it is most reckless and inhuman to say that people are now pleased if we know how we have prepared them for this satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much. What I think has not happened not only in this mandate, but in many others, it is unheard of. We faced the veto twice, twice with a negative attitude and, as my predecessor had said, with a two-time withdrawal of expectations. After all that we are and what I have already said about this subject, I can remind you that if I take only one aspect that may be called a financial aspect, only that the 3 billion today signed by a ministry at a higher level than was promised would constitute an invaluable comparison in the context of this law. Here we are talking, of course, if there was an optimum solution and an expansion of beneficiaries, of a few million per person, while today we are meeting with 3 billion people who are just going empty, without explanations, without promises and without guarantees, and without clear financial implications when we are talking about armored persons, about another purpose, when the state means nothing and when it presses a certain high price. Here we have been dealing with the issue of the rehabilitation of one such current, acute and painful problem for months and months. I, I must admit, expected that, with the establishment of the new Minister and her views, there would also be a different view on this issue. But if I said yesterday that nothing's changed, I can only repeat it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much again for your word. Well, I will apologize if I was in the introduction to present perhaps a bit too grave or a pikra at the expense of the Government or those representatives in the National Assembly who supported the government's solutions, but once again, I stress the bad solutions that have, after all, violated justice within the framework of the bill that we have today on the table or that we are deciding again today. I highlighted in my presentation some of the key points, those of which the Council of State also stressed, that it voted veto to the law tabled by the DeSUS Group of Members, despite promises to receive appropriate assistance on one side of the profession, medicine, and on the other hand the Government. But, as the President-in-Office unfortunately found in the debate itself, this did not happen, the Government did not participate constructively in this proposed solution. And today to listen by government representatives or representatives of coalition parties to the need for a constructive solution or constructive cooperation in the search for an appropriate solution, please, in two years you have not found a constructive proposal by the opposition. Today to talk about it, hand to heart, is pure deception. On several occasions, we have only been in the Slovenian National Party, and I believe that other parties, other Members, have also blown into this microphone about how important the interdisciplinary approach by the Government, the various ministries of the field, is. Yes, it is probably not a coincidence why this law moved from one ministry to another ministry, from another to a third ministry, even within the framework of the National Assembly, one and the same story - from one working body to another. Last but not least, those who speak to the Ministry of Health today or how much the Ministry of Health should participate constructively in this issue or in solving this problem. Basically, this law or that government bill belonged directly to the Ministry of Health and was shaken by the Minister because the issue does not seem important enough or something, I don't know, difficult to explain. When I read the veto argument on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Asbestos Reading, last but not least, the explanation resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, paragraph 72, which states that the law provides under which conditions and to what extent the cause of damage in the living environment is to be compensated, the law should therefore be laid down in such a way that it is subsidised to assume responsibility by the State in an appropriate relationship with responsibility for the uncontrolled use of asbestos by economic companies. Even companies that have in most cases been the biggest contributors to the pollution of the environment by asbestos fibres must take over part of their burden. The Constitution speaks of the responsibility, the subsidiary responsibility of the state. Hand to heart, but in these cases the health of people has increased GDP or financial cash registers, if you want, at the expense of human health. I have heard several times in this House, and I am so much more dismayed because I am coming from the Rippers. Stories, incomplete stories about the so-called Ripper pool, where a new hot spot appears. Yeah, we had a cement plant, we still have it, but this cement plant used to use asbestos, work with asbestos. I am that generation when I was growing up from my small legs with daily information, notifications on the radio, a local regional radio station, that we must not leave home, that we must have closed windows because sulphur dioxide pollution has repeatedly exceeded the limit or maximum limit. And you know, it's terrible that we don't actually have data, the people who live there, the people who live or come from the Rippers, from Zasavje, we don't have data on what or who causes a very high incidence, even among young people. My peers have cancer. Who knows why? And this is one of the things I hope for when, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia joins the repeatedly promised Systemic Law on Environmental or Health Harmful Effects, it will be included and respected. But I regret to find again that I fear that this government strategy or the implementation of this government strategy is very far away, respected colleagues and colleagues. On September 12th of this year, I put a question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a written question, which speaks specifically of this so-called system law. Do you know what they said to me? That, in fact, it is premature today to talk about the guidelines on the government strategy. Only a strategy, let alone a marriage. Tell me again, I'm asking you, when will a system law be drawn up that will include all those patients who have got asbestos, not because of working in a factory, but because they lived outside it. Even children, children are our wealth, children went to kindergartens, factory or roof, asbestos roof. When will a law be drawn up that includes the so-called environmental aspect for all those who have suffered harm to health due to harmful effects on the environment or human health. It is the responsibility of the country in the first place, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, former associates on the balcony! As one of the billmakers, I would like the marriage to be better than it is. However, I must say that I am satisfied with what I have achieved and will support it in this consideration. But he supported it because I disagree with those who say nothing is done. Any change in the asbestos law has been made a certain step further. Previously, great criticism was expressed on account of people saying they were satisfied. People are content to see that progress has been made, but they certainly are not satisfied with everything that is written in this law. It has been said several times that the rights already acquired are being violated. That's not true. The acquired rights remain and are extended by any amendment to the law. The law we passed in March extended the rights acquired to users and to workers who worked with asbestos products, installed them, removed them, etc., which was not in the previous law. With this law, which we have today on the agenda, if we confirm it, the rights acquired are also being extended again from an environmental point of view to those workers who will become sick of the most ugly form of asbestos, that is, mesothelioma, so that they can receive compensation. I have said for the last time that the achievement of this law has actually gone beyond the factory framework, as Mr Žnidarsic has already pointed out. I agree, however, that the asbestos problem, as well as other environmental problems, must continue to work and try to improve the situation whenever possible. It is true, and many times the problem of the financial consequences of all other consequences has also been highlighted. I think that most of the preparers are afraid of these consequences mainly because they do not know, I do not think we have yet complete ideas and analyses as to the extent to which the adoption of such a law would result if it were extended to the whole of Slovenia. If they had such calculations and analyses, it would probably be much easier. As for the asbestos law and the pictures that Mrs Tavševa had previously shown, I must say that I have seen so many times in Anhove's work, and they are very ugly to see, even though we have not yet realized what this means and how it means. As far as Soča is concerned, Soča is largely cured. And I think it's well-saved, so I advise you to organize a trip across the Soccer Valley and you'll see that in Anhove and around Soča, it's not so bad. There is certainly something else to be done, but much has been done, thanks to the state and thanks to the company Salonit Anhovo. As far as European comparability is concerned, I think that the European law is comparable. Read the European Comparative Laws and you will see that we are not lagging behind. But this does not mean, in my opinion, that we must remain on this. I agree that there is a need to continue working on this issue and to look for any possibility of improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u82	Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, Madam Minister! Today, of course, for the first time in your presence, we are considering this spring serpent for the adoption of a law that would really eliminate the consequences of working with asbestos. First of all, I regret that 2007 is the Partnership for Development, but not the year in which we would be able to reach the asbestos partnership in the National Assembly. I say this because the debate we have witnessed for the fourth time in this year, and I think that we have already met this issue three times, shows that there is a great contradiction between those who are committed to eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos and those who are working to eliminate the consequences of exposure to asbestos and so on. Someone said there was a financial problem. I must say that, formally, Mr President of the National Assembly there, sometime in the spring of this year, when members of the opposition proposed an appropriate law, said that the problem was in financial resources. However, Members and Members of Parliament, particularly Members of the DeSUS, Members of New Slovenia, including Members of the SDS and SLS, it was very easy, as the State said today's message, for one of the ministers to sign a deal on 66 billion military vehicles, but it is very difficult, as the Government says, to oppose what the right to resolve this law requires, either to create additional resources in the state budget, or to follow some European countries, including the creation of an adequate cover fund. And as long as we are in the National Assembly, until we are in all the parliamentary groups aware that it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to approach the solution of this problem, we will be working one way or another to solve the problems, while the other one will work to solve the problems, but of course you are aware that you are not solving the problems. We are in the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, and I myself have proposed some proposals for legal solutions, all of which have come across deaf ears either as Minister of Finance or as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Finally, I hope that the representatives of the Government can be heard further, and I would like to remind the representatives of the Government that the Minister for Labour, the family, is sitting here among us, but especially the Minister for Social Affairs. And I would like to ask you if the Government can respond more substantively to the State Council's arguments and that Members and Members of the ruling coalition listen to the Minister of Social Affairs this time. If we take these aspects into account, then we will begin to solve this problem in a way similar to that of other European countries. Of course, it is true that we do not know how many of these cases there are, of course, that we do not know how much it will cost us. However, if we put the matter and the problems aside, the problem will only be greater. The matter needs to be resolved now, and I therefore propose that we support the veto of the State Council, we have a new Minister of Social Affairs, we give her the right direction, and I hope that she, as the newly elected minister, will be able to address this problem more adequately than that has failed in the last two years of the Government of which she is the Minister. I think that the whole discussion that took place in the last year, year and a half, in the entire two-year term, is simply a discussion that is not worth this National Assembly. I myself have apologized twice to those who come to this Chamber to listen to this, and I hope that I will not have to apologize for the third time that we do not know in the National Assembly what the priority should be to solve one of the more difficult problems caused by the State. Please, if, of course, the representatives of the Government, the representative, the Minister of Social Affairs, especially from the perspective of the Minister of Social Affairs, tell us how to resolve this problem. In doing so, please take into account the State Council's arguments, so I propose that we today support the veto of the State Council and get on this basis as quickly as possible a law that will, of course, eliminate and solve problems to the people who have arisen due to the inadequate functioning of the Government or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! This novel recognises only the worst form of asbestos disease. For this first small step you have taken in the coalition all year long, the opposition's amendments have been rejected throughout the year, and some coalition colleagues are now promising a comprehensive solution. The opportunities for a comprehensive solution were already more than sufficient this year, more than enough in the last three or four autumn months. Let me remind you, in September this year, the parent committee adopted a decision to postpone the law to one of the following meetings, and a further very binding decision was adopted that, on the basis of the substantial comments made to the various parts of the draft law, based on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the expert opinion of the Clinical Institute for Labour, Transport and Sport at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee will prepare appropriate amendments to the draft law and will consider them in the course of further consideration of the law. This was the decision that was adopted. Unfortunately, neither the Government nor other coalition Members have been able to supplement this bill or vice versa, it has been mutilated and, in fact, completely mutilated, except, as I said at the outset, this most severe form of asbestos disease. I would also like to recall the Government's opinion of 7 September 2006 and the Government's final opinion on this proposal this year. In fact, the Government knows very well what needs to be resolved, where the traps of this law are, and it also has all the levers to be able to propose amendments to this proposal by the coalition Members in the procedure itself. See, the Government has written down that the text of the proposed law needs to be amended in such a way as to determine precisely who can exercise the rights of the law, whose rights it can acquire and how rights will be realized. The government has suggested this to the bill's proponents, it is said that the government knows how to handle this. I therefore propose that the Government do this on its own now and that these solutions be intersectorally coordinated. The Government then wrote down; the law must, in accordance with the principle of legality, provide for the management of a particular register and prescribe who runs it, as well as the indicative content of this register or the data to be entered in it. So the government knows how to make it. So let the government prepare this to prepare this register when it prepares, I hope, such a novelty of this law. Finally, the Government has written on this law that it would not object to the bill if the drafter clearly defined the criteria for the recognition of rights to the surrounding population. It is said that the Government could also define criteria for the recognition of rights to the surrounding population. It is said that the government can write a good asbestos law, but I think it is still afraid of these financial consequences. We have said that these financial consequences are not as great as some in the Government imagine. Furthermore, in this opinion, the Government also advocates a comprehensive solution to this whole problem, not only for asbestos diseases, professional and non-professional exposure to asbestos. Look what the government wrote down. The Government considers that the proposal should address the issue of a comprehensive system of providing state aid to people who are physically affected by environmental pollution due to the impact of industry, transport or other environmental problems. It is said that the Government is also aware of this problem, so it would be good to ask the Government more rhetorically, because I do not think that the Minister under the Rules has the opportunity to participate in the debate, but perhaps this opportunity would still be given to her, I ask the Government how far it is with the preparation of this law or at least the professional basis for the drafting of this law, if it has already been considered necessary in September that this issue should be addressed more broadly. However, I am concerned about the speed of preparing all of these solutions, if the coalition has spent this year merely to make amendments to the law with only one of the worst forms of disease, I think, and I am not so optimistic that this could quickly be done. However, if the political will in the Government, in the National Assembly, was large enough, I hope that the Chairman of the Home Committee will convene a meeting of the Committee as soon as possible on our initiative, together with the Liberal Democrats, so that we can all sit together again and try to find the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, do you have a procedural proposal? Please tell me what he's like.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u86	I have three minutes, and I can design it at the beginning. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u88	Then I'll explain. [[...]] I would gradually suggest that, if one of my respected colleagues did not object, but in view of the issues that have arisen, I am aware that the proposed law is not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this time, but colleagues on the other hand - but if the Government would only give the opportunity to explain the issues that have arisen in this debate, that we really see, as colleague Bevk has already said before me, where we are at the time of the creation of this comprehensive law, what he is predicting and whether he is perhaps solving what the opposition is reminding us of today. I also think it makes sense in this respect, because it seems to me that this asbestos law has been going on for quite some time, that people are also dying and getting sick in the meantime, and when the government says that it is always a matter of cooperation between the government, the state and the economy in solving this problem, to allow, however, to the extent that, of course, who does not object to it, that the Government also explains its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. In this regard, I would like to say that the Government has not been reported to this debate, but I am taking your proposal into account. There may still be four debaters, there will be time, and in the rest of the time available for discussion, I will also give the Minister a word, of course, if she wants to. Mr. Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Why is there such a diversion today? I'm glad we have this law back in procedure and adoption, but I expected a little more sense. As much money as we spent in the debates with empty words, deception, promises and lies would have been enough to solve this problem. However, there is no such understanding here in this hall that we can recalculate it once. Some say, former coworkers on the balcony, and then they start with shameful lies and instigations. You know, it pains me to see that this law, which was passed in April and is in force, is not yet realized in one single point. Indeed, the amendment of this law says that the State should provide money from the budget for medical expertise. Seven months have passed since, the state has failed to do so. And today, some Members who have been exposed to this possibility of poisoning, even working in such a company, speak the opposite. That this law is good, some MEPs have said. Please! The previous law put into force by the LDS was better; it included an environmental aspect; this government excluded the environmental aspect. And not to say, "today's worse-accepted things," perhaps only in one case, this law, which was amended or proposed by DeSUS, is better, because they have deleted everything from them, they have left them only one little thing. And these same apostles today hope to boast that this law is good. Dear Minister! It's your first time with us today. I hope every broom at the beginning sweeps well. A fraction of that responsibility is also on your side. You have the opportunity to look into the eyes of the dying, to meet tomorrow, not today - or today, of course, today would be the best, but you will not find time for this, because you will be tired - to meet with them immediately tomorrow and discuss these matters. And tomorrow's government will write down a new law that will be acceptable to this group and submit it to the National Assembly for re-decision. If not, we'll do it ourselves. Because what you're doing is already outrageous. People are dying, and you're trading with the dying. Isn't that sad? That's really sad. The money we have spent on this meaningless speech for the discussions that are already on the table would have been enough to solve this problem. You can't even see it. Tomorrow we will talk about this again, a new law that will be expressed in the same preamble with the same requirements. He speaks to you the profession which you have excluded, but you do not want to listen to it, they speak to you sick ones which you do not want to see, they speak to you truly understanding Members, whom you do not want to listen to. And you keep writing reminders to your Members about how to vote. Shame! Children will also die tomorrow because of the long latent period; you will not see them either. Really, let's take our minds into our own hands, think about it, and make the right decision, because what we're doing is not smart.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much again for your word. First of all, I must say that it is not necessary to call here on Madam Minister, because this is not a proposal from the Government, my fellow Members, and perhaps you, Mr Friend, would be advised to read some opinions on this from the symposium that was held in Nova Gorica in 2003, perhaps you will use those words a little bit harder then on some absurdity, etc., about shame and what you are always repeating. However, I am once again convinced that if this veto, proposed by the State Council today, were to destroy what has already been done; it is said that, in addition to those working with asbestos and which the right was extended in March this year, that if we do not confirm this law, these people would be excluded and again, as far as this is concerned, at the beginning. So those who are sick and out of work, in the environment, today would simply be put back on track by rejecting this law. Thus, they would be deprived of a right that we have adopted with difficulty here in the National Assembly, and for this reason I do not really understand the veto of the State Council. I don't understand what the State Council wanted with this. So this smaller group of people take this right if the law falls. So you didn't do this the right way if you wanted to do it the right way, then it would be better if you cooperated in this process by really starting to work together to prepare some comprehensive solution for all environmental diseases and what is related to all environmental impacts. Of course, if you cooperate, you will have to tell us where to take the financial resources so that we can cover all of this in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again. I believe that the contents of this law are covered by the sentence of the first signed under the text of this law. The solutions that this law brings do not follow the profession, but it is the solution brought by this law, namely the decision of the government and the ruling coalition. That this decision is different after a bad year as it was in March, of course it is due to the opposition, who all the time warns that the solution adopted by the new law adopted in March is not adequately answered to the open questions of all those who have been exposed to asbestos and today have such and different consequences, and that the consequences can also be discussed in the future, since the latent period to the occurrence of the disease is very long. Here again, I would like to point out very carefully, given that today is a series of calls, how the opposition should try to help and participate in solving this issue. If we recall, the opposition has twice proposed the extension of the former, old law. As we recall, the opposition has tabled a number of amendments that have spoken about the need for the law in force, the law of March this year, to be amended. At that time, it was not possible to talk about any improvement in this law, nor was it possible for a step to be extended to mesothelioma by environmental influence and disease. This was also rejected at the time without any professional arguments that you are talking about today that they are so much needed. We can all agree on this and it is certainly the power to attract all those who today and who have ever spoken about this subject that it is a difficult subject; therefore it is not an easy problem, it is not an easy content, but it is a matter of readiness, whether we are prepared to solve this content. This content was not ready to be resolved either by the Government or by the coalition even when attempts were made to introduce a new law to correct the content of the March law. This is what you were trying to do with the coalition MPs, the coalition MPs, who today are talking about that only after you introduced the law did you get to know all the topics and problems related to the regulation of the content of the law. Is it then possible to say that all the reasons and all the explanations for this law are so written, "through the thumb"? I think that you have made a great deal of effort by the proposing of this law and that you have certainly tried to present this subject and that you have not written it "over the thumb", on the basis of which you would then also propose certain solutions; but that you have been given, despite expert opinions, to know that the green light is given to you for only one right under this law, for one type of illness and that you have finally accepted it, today you justify this as some achievement of possible, which is legitimate, but of course does not solve all the problems that I am opening together here. Together we are opening up all these problems, because even through the discussions of coalition Members today it is possible to see that problems actually exist in the environment, the only problem is that we do not solve them within the framework of this Government. I would point out that colleague Bevk has already systematically analysed the Government's opinion, and at some points he has pointed to some systemicity and nonsense, just a trifle in the argument of the Government, which does not give rise to or stems from the only clear message that the Government does not deal with this problem and does not wish to adequately address this problem. If we only recall the opinion of the Government of 7.9, one of the paragraphs states that when the rights are recognised - and the rest of the population should be determined the circumstances - it is therefore necessary to determine the circumstances which will be relevant for determining the causal link between the effect of asbestos and disease. And after we adopt the law, i.e. the vilified law of individual Members, we introduce one of the diseases for which we have not adopted at any point or at least the necessary circumstances have been clearly presented, that is, certain circumstances that would establish a causal link. It is once again a confirmation not for professional rescue, but for the political well-being of the ruling government coalition that it has allowed one disease to change this law. But speaking of the content of this law, I would like to draw attention to Article 4. I am simply quoting this fourth article for a simple reason, because it is necessary to quote it, because in the first and second indents we are talking about what is considered to be diseases under this law, and in the third indent of Article 4, we are already writing down what the Government is writing here, and we are writing the following: again, I will read this to make it perfectly clear. Thus, "the diseases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be considered as occupational diseases if the causal link between exposure to asbestos in the workplace and disease is established by the interdisciplinary group referred to in Article 9 of this Act." And the fourth indent states that, of course, "the conditions referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be laid down in more detail by the Minister or Minister responsible for health." And if we now release "professional disease" and "in the workplace" in these areas alone, then this third indent shall be read as follows: the diseases referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of this Article shall be aggregated for diseases if the causal link between asbestos exposure is established by the interdisciplinary group referred to in Article 9. And when we read all these documents, of course, we talk about the consistency or nonconsistency of the government's interpretation, why it doesn't treat this problem in its entirety or why it doesn't express the will to make it all right. If we follow the proposaler again, we can see on page 5 what the numbers for the affected population are behind mesothelioma. In 16 years we're talking about nine cases, nine cases in 16 years! However, the law clearly states that the maximum compensation for mesothelioma is 10 million. And the estimates, if we give these 16 years or 9 out of 16 years, we get 0.5 maybe some other decimals talking about what the perspective should be. However, if we are talking about all other diseases, the applicants clearly write them down and try to evaluate them to around 160 million. The assessment is also that we can expect a higher number in the future, but if we compare this number and this amount of 160 million with a very simple swing by the Minister of Health, who says, for helicopter transport, we can spend 400 million from the health treasury, without the need for discussion, without a call for proposals, because it is a decision that is something in the light of existing regulation, and it does not specify where the reasons are. Here today we place both financial burdens and one of the basic burdens, why it is not possible to accept a different text of this law. If we follow this projection from the explanation to the law, then we can conclude that one, two, or perhaps on the fingers of one hand, will list the cases that we will talk about, which there is a maximum compensation of 10 million under the law. So what are the financial consequences? And today, let us hear that those who, so it was said here today, should imagine when we propose certain measures that remind us that there are 400 thousand tons of asbestos cement in the environment. We who remind ourselves to imagine, and the Minister for Environment and Space says that, although he has promised a memo to inform the inhabitants of their relationship to these materials, unfortunately, it has not been possible to prepare in half a year. We can agree that there are larger or smaller hotspots in Slovenia, that several steps have been taken to stop the production of asbestos and cement-asbeste products. But we have a species of small focal points in Slovenia where there is a potential risk that these small focal points will cause the exposure and re-disease of these people. And that's what we're talking about with complete awareness. We are not talking about this because we would like to cause some fear in people, but only if we take into account that in 2004 only 9 inspection views were carried out and we hope that the result and also the question of the mission is that the number of inspections in this area has increased significantly, of course it speaks of the fact that the concern we share with many in this area is justified. What can we expect? I have asked a clear question at the presentation of the candidate for Minister today. Can - given that the Secretary of State has been able to address the asbestos issue throughout this term - give any other position or position to deal with this law in the same way or to confirm its position so far? I'm afraid I've lost my answer. Thus, even with a word, the aspect of the candidate at the time was not presented for how we will further address this issue. And then how can we believe how to believe? I hope, Mr President, that, on your proposal today, the Minister will take this opportunity to take a position on further consideration, because if we are bound by the tactical manoeuvres we have witnessed this year, the postponement and postponement of the hearing due to the so-called local elections, with the commitment of the committee that has reached the conclusion that the Government will cooperate with the proponents. I would also like to hear from the proposalers today how they assess this cooperation, given that they are coalition Members, the Government, the coalition. And it would be very good to say how the decision adopted by the majority of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities has been implemented. So today we will also be able to get clear views on whether we are talking about tomorrow's response to these initiatives, which we are submitting again from the coalition sides, in order for the committee to address this issue in a comprehensive manner, because the proposals from the opposition have been great and, of course, we hope, and we want this committee to show that we will really be able to address the various aspects so that we can come up with a more comprehensive solution. We agree that the issue is interdisciplinary, that it must be dealt with in different ways, because it will also be very interesting to hear after two years the answers to what the Government has done in terms of these warnings, which we always give in its opinion; where are the studies, where are the analyses, what their position on the definition of the environment, what is its work so far in determining the circumstances necessary to determine the causal link. And we will also find out in the projections, which will then also indicate financial implications. And when we speak so much today, let us say, where to take the finances, we have proposed or proposed an amendment by the opposition species to provide financial resources both in 2007 and 2008 to cover the obligations of this law. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs was against it. Unfortunately, no such amendment has been supported in this House either. And, of course, today, it would be much easier to talk about how, given the extent of the rights to types of disease, the exposure of asbestos to the surrounding population could make certain substantive changes under this law. I therefore reiterate that if the Government does not actively approach this issue, there will be no further movement, or we will be Members, the coalition, opposition or all together, in fact, able to draw up rights against the Government's arguments to ensure equal and fair treatment of all people who have suffered any consequences of asbestos exposure and those rights already granted by the 1996 law. I'm gonna end up with the same thought I started. So this law does not bring professionally justified solutions, but it is about enforcing as much as possible, as the Government has allowed, and it supports this ruling coalition. We hope that we will be able to approach this content more comprehensively and solve it substantially than this law does, in ensuring equal treatment of all people, I reiterate, all the people who have been exposed to asbestos: whether they have been exposed to asbestos because they worked in this environment or because they have lived in such an environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Council of State want a word? Here you go, Dr. Zoltan Jan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, in the debate that lasted 4 hours in 10 minutes, it is not possible to answer all the questions and problems, all the uncertainties that have arisen, but I certainly thank those 15 Members who on average have been on duty in the Chamber, and in particular all those who have followed the whole debate, a third of these 15. Of course, it's understandable that every healthy person has thousands of concerns, but when you get sick, it's one thing to worry about. First of all, I would like to say that it is the wrong approach of the Council of State, which has proposed a suspension veto. The Council of State has also participated in previous procedures and in all stages of the legislative procedure which the Rules of Procedure allow, but has not been heard with its proposals. And now he's using the last, or the last, tool that he still has, so there's a kind of affection here on the one hand, on the other hand a little bit strange. Above all, I would like to turn to this, which is where the whole debate is concentrated. This is because the law does not interfere with new legal improvements. Well, that is true, but it is also true that with this day the alibi is for nothing to be done, as the honourable Members and Members have said, many times in this long debate. Who's going to propose a new law? Member groups, groups of members of different colours have already proposed several times and have always burned themselves, just as they have burned today. The government could and should have proposed this years ago, but it did not propose - one and the previous and the previous and so on. The Council of State may propose, but it will not even come on the agenda of this assembly. So, who is it? Even in the debate, we have heard very clearly what problems will arise even in the description of the decision for the extraordinary reference of the committee proposed by Mr Bevk alone. There are also problems here, so it seems to me that what MEP Pecan said, that we will solve this by the end of this mandate, to solve this, is also a very likely option, or reminds me of that joke from the Soviet Union when they started using computers, they asked the first computer: when are we going to get into communism. And the answer was, over 15,000 kilometers, because every five-year-old is one step against communism. So, a promise. Now, what is crucial - and what is most worrying - is that in the debate they have warned that the country has no money to lack professional grounds, that inter-sectoral coordination is needed, that there is an excessive spread of rights, that they are unpredictable financial effects. These are no promises, no debate and very clear indications that this issue and injustice will not be resolved. And don't make any illusions when you press the button and vote on today's proposal. True, it is cruelly true that this law is the protection of the budget, the law is that nothing is resolved, but I would also point out that most of them are cement companies and those companies that caused this damage; in foreign property and operate and create profits, now with the construction of motorways, from our pockets, taxpayers. Sadly, this was not to be exposed, but it came back to the point: Let each individual claim his or her own right. Dear Members, the patients who worked for those machines and those children who played in kindergarten in such an environment do not have money for lawyers, as does some American middle-class representative. Most of these patients and exposed citizens are poor people. That's why I'm also asking if it's true and who those people were who said, "Yeah, yeah, that's good too." They said the numbers and I don't know them myself, but I do have reliable resources that the government has accurately calculated how much a fairly decent solution would cost - not a fair, decent solution. And here I don't think there's a dilemma when you decide what's right and what we need. The law distinguishes between citizens who are harmed for the same reason. The law does not allow for the timely and effective prevention of new injustice and does not protect the orphans of the deceased and the widows because it rejects their compensation. There are, I mean, those key things. In addition to those who have died or who are just dying, there is also a need to look at the living victims and those who are affected by their disability at all levels; in personal pain, who are fearful of when they will become sick themselves and who are ultimately suppressed into material problems. We all know what family pensions are like and what disability is like. I hope, Members, that you will not have to look down on the victims when you meet them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, please? [[...]] Procedural question. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u98	Mr President, indeed, we all spoke with one exception, Minister of Social Affairs. Therefore, it is my procedural suggestion that you give her the floor, unless any of the Members opposes, before you share the time; because I think it would be correct and proper that the Government, which has made an incomprehensible decision from me, will not report its time, but will be given a word. So, my procedural proposal is that you, as chairman, propose to the assembly that, in so far as no one objects, we give the floor to the Minister. Minister, I think we should answer a few questions, and then I think that the procedure is to share time, and I believe that we will discuss with the Government in particular. For the government is the one that can lead to a quick and appropriate solution here. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your lesson, Mr. Ambassador. I explained exactly what I would do in the light of Mr Zagorec's procedural proposal, and I started doing so. If the Minister wants a word in the next few minutes, she'll have it. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the application. There are nine Members on the application list. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, you have the floor. Please. Five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. The arguments of the motioners did not convince me, and I am sure that I am not alone in this room, and last but not least the Government does not believe in these arguments, because otherwise the Minister would not have pushed her head into the sand and not dared to come forward or even reported the time for discussion. We have heard various, very questionable and often for hair drawn arguments that people are satisfied; that they are satisfied with what they have received. Of course, we can think that this is "a better sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof". But I'm telling you, it's not even "a hunter in hand." It's a "little sparrow," and if someone thinks that because people on average have very little life left, they can work with them in this way, they can be eliminated with a "little sparrow", or with a "hawk" no, then at least it's not nice and at least it's not right. We have also heard that the constitutional rights of all, including those who have suffered from certain other diseases, must be protected, whether deadly or very dangerous. However, we all know very well that this is not about protecting constitutional rights, but it is just an excuse; and what is the worst, this is just an excuse that they will then, the same, be able to use in all other cases when there is another disease to talk about, but they will say, yes, we can't, because we couldn't do it in asbestos. And that's not right either. And another argument is why it's wrong - because it's a different disease than, for example, cancer. This is a disease that is caused and causes are clear, known and preventable. However, they have not been prevented and, therefore, a more clearly defined responsibility is also. I agree that those who have done so must be called to account, i.e. businesses and owners of these companies. On the other hand, it is also necessary to call the country to account, as the state is responsible for the justice of its citizens and the state is responsible for protecting its citizens. Unfortunately, in this case, we see that the country protects only the budget and not its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. So, dear colleagues, we have talked about these solutions many times. It is common that when we talk about this, we also ask Members from this end how they will act. Today I will not do this because I think it is a more important question of what the government is like. We have heard from the proponents that the solution in the proposal was limited, both by the Ministry and by the Government. The moment the new minister could say something about it, what didn't happen for the first time, she left this hall. What's more, no one from the Ministry came forward. This is the whole point of the coalition as far as solving this problem is concerned. When solutions were in hand that were acceptable to the people concerned, DeSUS had to obey the will of the majority. He was promised to bring solutions. When he brought solutions, not everyone was satisfied with these solutions. We can say they're a tiny step further. But we know a lot more about this problem at this point than we knew a year or two ago, not to mention the first marriage. What I can say for the conclusion of this debate is that there is nothing left for the opposition but to vote for this veto. The only non-voting of this law would eventually pave the way for a more complex solution to any problems related to this matter. This is obviously no longer an interest for anyone, the local elections are with us, the peace in the coalition is stable, the minister avoids this, and what's worth knowing is that it wasn't just - and I'm going to end - Mr Tiny's problem when it came to solving this problem, but that obviously the whole coalition is a problem. I thank the coalition and government for this teaching, and I no longer see the possibility of assisting them in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u104	As has already been said, and as we said yesterday, and as we also said at the "hearing", the Minister has remained silent on the key issues of the previous Minister and what we are most concerned about or which has further disappointed us, but it is that she remains silent today. Not only is he silent, he literally disappears from our eyes; of course, because he should answer the fundamental questions that you still ask in the coalition when you say that this law is something better than nothing, something better than what it is, because no one guarantees that it could be written differently. Of course he doesn't guarantee if there's an empty bench! Of course he doesn't guarantee it if he pushes her out of the hall and doesn't answer three invitations to the word! It's not just here that there's a perversion in this treatment of this law. Perversion is elsewhere, when we meet these hundreds of millions, there are no more than 200 million of them, one estimate of how many of these patients can be. And if you do not know exactly how to calculate, if you can measure the last millimeter of a dwelling in Slovenia each, you can also measure and predict what the professional basis can be for the consequences of such a law. And this measurement is going to cost significantly more than this 200 million, about which, let's say, there is now an assumption that, as a result, if it were not limited to these diseases alone, it would stand. On the other hand, today, I repeat, Mr Erjavec signs the Patria Armouring Treaty and, by the way, that 3 billion more than he said yesterday. Three billion! Do you know what 3 billion is? The Minister will know what 3 billion is when dealing with transfers that are also missing, for example, and she has not elected them as Secretary of State to increase social concerns. At the same time, when Mr Bručan does not even sign a contract one day earlier, he promises 300 to 400 million more to drive those who need to drive, but in a way that is not legal. And let Mr Janša not waste his eyes when damages are made to state property in Mercator, and yet no one blinks with his eyes when this generous coalition gives a billion for the media to "blow up" as it wants. Here is the perversion, while you have here a god couple hundred million - I say goodbye if I concentrate on something that is more common your alibi to "cost" to health "cost". Yes, of course, in Slovenia we have come to where we can start dealing with this thought that health "cost". Of course! Where this country is and where this country came from is worse than you said how many kilometers there are to some sums of five years. In short, the excuse that it is better to vote it out, because something, if we don't vote, then worse, is perverse, is unacceptable. There's been a warning from the State Council twice. And I expect, of course, that there will be so many more reasons in the State Council to stop it because it's a nuisance. Several initiatives have also come from other parties, including ours, to make these things different, but no, today this excuse or alibi is perfect. Blinking your eyes, doing something. That's right, who's threatening you and who's "careful" after all a few people who die in this country!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Excuse me, excuse me. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. We need to set priorities in our country. On the side of the pay phone in front of me, we heard what the government's obvious priorities were. While some government, coalition Members are concerned about where to take financial resources to ensure what we want the opposition Members, which is not the last thing people want to do, but obviously people, people's health, social welfare are not the priorities of this government. It's sad! Today, the State Secretary or Minister, I apologize, had the opportunity to demonstrate her expertise, which we heard big words yesterday, last but not least, the Prime Minister of the Government, the expertise of yesterday's candidate, today's Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. But the expertise of the minister, a respected colleague and colleague, is reflected in the fact that she walked away. Simple. You know, another precedent happened in our country, and I said a little cynically now, because I've been reading and hearing about the kind of precedents that are happening under this government obviously. Yes, as long as the Secretary of State was present at the meetings of the home work bodies as well as the National Assembly, she raised the phone for the opinion asked the Minister or the President of the Government; today, when the Minister is in charge of the right conduct, she asks the leader of the parliamentary group for an opinion. Wow! She's a professional! Regrettably, unfortunately, because important issues have been raised today in the course of the debate, important issues arising from the poor conduct of the Government and, above all, the great promises made by the Government and the government Members. Not only have we heard nothing as many times as we have heard, but I will say again today - the word relationship "systemic law" or "whole solution" not only for asbestos patients, but for all patients or for all those people who have suffered the consequences of harmful environmental effects. But the Minister did not want to give any answers to the Members or to the people affected. Instead, when the Minister was still in the role of Secretary of State, otherwise, I have already mentioned today, the Government's opinion is from the State Secretary's office that the amendment, which is the law we are considering today, is an appropriate legal basis for resolving the problem. If this is an appropriate legal basis, then where is the system law? But as has already been said, unfortunately we have not received the answers today, whether it be a precedent or just ignorance - I am deeply disappointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Clearly, you did not give the Minister appropriate instructions because she was not told that, unlike Members, she should raise her hand if she wanted to speak, or also, Mr. President, should this instruction be given [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u109	Mr. Squeakle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u110	I'll be right there. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u111	I'm sorry, I think that Mrs Minister or former Secretary of State at this time knows that it is necessary to raise your hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u112	That is exactly what I want to say, Mr President. We Members have wasted time with a procedural proposal to prepare the government to speak. I say this because what has been done today by the Minister and what has been done now several times with the Government's opinions on this law is tragic, is the disrespect of the National Assembly, and above all the disrespect of the people who are with us today. I do not imagine, after some representatives of the ruling coalition, as well as some of the MPs among the proponents have said that they expect this problem to be resolved. I can't imagine, I can't imagine how the government, for example, would solve this problem in a Dutch way. Let me put it this way, and I say this because of the people at the gallery, that the Dutch problem has been solved in such a way that the Dutch asbestos victim committee has been very agile since 1995. But then another, different government, a government that understands dialogue, in a dialogue between employers, insurance companies, the government and trade unions formed a national institution - a national institute is nothing more than an insurance scheme - an insurance scheme that is full of the state budget that will provide and provide compensation. I can't imagine how during the time of this government's mandate, after the government, the minister, has done what she has done, after twice asking her to raise her hand to talk to us and the gallery's visitors - how she can conduct such a dialogue. How will it lead a dialogue where employers, insurance companies, trade unions, victims will be brought to the round table, a green table and an appropriate insurance scheme will be developed. A government that was not prepared to support any amendment when financial resources were not yet available, as well as when they were financial resources. Let me remind you that for 2007, we just distributed 10,000 30 billion so that we just did this or that, this government will not be able to do that. That is why I have said, and thus I conclude, I regret that 2007 is only a year of partnership for development, but not a partnership with which and in which to solve the social problems, problems, life problems faced by asbestos patients because of what they have done and what the country is responsible for. And I'm afraid it's only in the next term that we're going to get to the law on remedying the consequences of asbestos exposure. For the next two years, we will obviously have a few such quiet exercises, quiet ones, because these exercises will clearly prohibit the Government from speaking, even though they are just appointed ministers. Maybe it's a shame she sat with us all day today. Maybe we should do something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u114	Please. Thank you very much, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The shame of the government is already great, and it will be even greater as the law withdraws, the more the government puts it on the sidelines, because I believe that it will not run out of will and desire for us to propose a new law for adoption again and again, as it would be necessary for it to be adopted. That's what's gonna happen. Believe me. But we'll discuss it. And the judgment of citizens and citizens is also very great, and I believe that this account will end. And, of course, the mercenary will be the one who will. I believe that money in this case is a bad excuse, that there is no reason not to help the dying and that the Government has simply the same way of saving the fighters, when it counts that everyone will die sooner than it would actually have to solve this problem. So he's counting on time. The time is on their side, that is definitely, the only fact is that this disease has a long latent period and that patients are still coming. That's not what they're counting on in government. Of course, it is also a shame that the previous law, to which we had our comments immediately at the beginning of the mandate and which left 700 million unused money, was first extended in the economic sector, so it dealt with this issue by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and then we put it all together into health care and now it's all together with the executor, this is the Committee on Labour and the Family. Interesting. This is exactly the largest nonchalant, and this is where we sweep all the acute problems under the carpet, whether it's the disabled or the ones that are known to be the result, that's death. Dear Members and Members! It is sad that we carry out our mission so badly and would like to, I would really like you to not listen to it once in a situation as negligible as this one. See, this half-empty hall witness about this - some even slept, yawned, and so forth, others read newspapers, they don't care - to at least find so much sense in this problem and once say: it is true, it is right to solve this problem and give it the end of the agenda. We also actually have important things to deal with, this is a very important problem, we could solve it with our left hand and we don't want it. The Minister doesn't think it's worth it enough to make the final word of those we've decided to insist on and to say a few more words, even though we're talking to the walls - it's not here. I don't know why she won't decide to talk today, but if she does, it'll be a miracle. I don't think you could say anything new, because she was writing this marriage, she helped make this marriage, in her chambers this marriage was made. And so many good proposals, as they were later overlooked by DeSUS, were not actually heard. Dessus boasts today that he did something. What did he do? Nothing. This marriage is for one pass, but I don't know if I said too much, better than the one we adopted in April and actually 100 percent worse than those that were in force when the LDS adopted it. These are the facts. The environmental aspect you've been sweeping under the carpet, you don't care about the people who live there, and even the former workers who should be critical of it are saying the praises to the government. If anyone looked at the balcony, he could see the sneezing and smelling of these people, who were actually at risk in fact; threatened not materially that they could not survive, they were threatened by knowing that they had a time-to-tenth. Time of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I can't, I really can't, we can't, at best, get past the resentment of what the Minister has done today. I can't. Whether this government is not lucky or you will have to start thinking about getting the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs from any other coalition party, but with NSI, and with such ministers, you have no luck. Her conduct was neither political, nor fair, nor cultural, and someone said to the committee, when the minister pretended to be well forged, we saw with what kind of horseshoes. When there's something to say, there's a door. And another question is, is it possible that the new practice of the second decade of the ruling of this coalition is that the Minister will now consult with the Member: "Oh, I'm sorry, dear colleague Alojz, what should I do?" And the answer is, "You know, because this is DeSUS's proposal, it's not government, and you don't have to be." And she's taking it seriously and she's not here today and she's gone. The proposal, as prepared by DeSUS, if I return to marriage, let's leave what the minister has done is not worth it, not to us, not to the people. He wasn't bad at the start. But what happened? The government sliced him to the end, and all that's left is a tree. And also this minister, who today is not competent, because today the government is not competent, has cleavageed him and cleavage him, and he still can't tell us why she did it today. He doesn't know or doesn't want to. Why did she cleavage him like that? I read somewhere that because the government is preparing a comprehensive law that will be fully analyzed and based on these analyses. You know, in one year I have to tell you that I have before me analyses and I guarantee you, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that if you miss them, you can get more within 14 days. And not to be excused for having to do the analysis. Maybe someone told me right before me when he said that the government is buying time and counting that these things might not have to be handled before the elections, because it won't have to be handled for anyone else in this country. But that must be what we're afraid of. As long as there's anything else we can do, let's work this out. And the answer that the government is not competent is because the law proposed by DeSUS is ridiculous. The government in this country is responsible for all citizens and citizens living here, regardless of whether the SNS or DeSUS law or anyone else proposes it. The government must have an opinion. The Minister must have an opinion, and she must not be afraid, unless these horseshoes are too quickly taken from the Parliamentary Chamber, I only hope that this will not be a practice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. And we will proceed with the debate. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We still have five minutes, and I don't think I'm gonna have to talk for five minutes because I'm gonna be very short. I think there was quite a bit of cynicism in this room today. In particular, I would like to highlight the words that I have heard towards the end of the debate of Members when someone said that why the State Council did not cooperate or cooperate with the Government or with law-makers when it was necessary to include in the legal form all the diseases caused by environmental and labour impacts. Thus, the task which is certainly not capable of performing either the National Assembly or the State Council, but is the task of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And I think that this is a task where a member of the government coalition should be even more aware that with such cynicism he is actually challenging himself and his own Government, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Family and Social Affairs, the Minister of Economy, and probably someone else, because Slovenia is certainly in the worst place in the European Union, regarding the definition and registration of occupational diseases, not to mention that we have no idea of the diseases that arise from the effects of the environment, from the noise, the exhaust gases to the various agents that arise from the natural environment or from the environment that we are causing by our own activities. This is the task that the state of Slovenia must describe all the impacts and, in particular, the results of these effects that cause occupational diseases. For this reason, I think that to throw up responsibility for something that none of the governments has done in these 15 years, and not one of the governments before that, is to list all occupational diseases, to put asbestos between them in one of the first places, not to talk about silicones and similar occupational diseases, and we can only then beat ourselves on the chest, how one of the state institutions that is certainly not competent to do such things has not done anything. I think that this law should be rejected, because, because of the two or three cases of people who will have a problem with this law, there will be hundreds and more of them who will not have a handful of satisfaction, not even the satisfaction of this law, but I think it is worth considering and saying, let's be patient, put in a new law and then let's hope that this woman, as she is called, will help to manage one ministry, that we will also adopt a law without radical hesitation to all those who are affected by asbestos.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr. Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A respected choir! But I'd rather have the Minister think carefully about what she's going to say. The government has time for a new year to think carefully about this debate, which has been held today in this National Assembly, or the whole proposal of coalition Members, which is finally so distorted and entangled. The worst thing would be if the secretary said there was nothing to be done today. I believe, however, that formerly, colleague Alojz Sok, from New Slovenia, said that we will be responsible from the opposition for the adoption or non-admission of this law, and that the victims will not receive compensation. I would like to remind Mr Sok that the basic text of this law was in the last provision to enter into force with 1.1.2008. Only on my proposal did the mother's working body accept the amendment to enter into force with 1.1.2007. I think it is the coalition's responsibility to adopt this law. I believe they'll come to work today. After all, we also have a vote today on the Law on Religious Freedom and I think that the coalition will be fairly represented. 46 votes are needed for this law, but I think that a thorough reflection is needed, and that next year we will take a step forward in the comprehensive treatment of asbestos issues in Slovenia and on professional diseases in particular, and other exposures due to the polluted environment that touch different layers of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at half seven o'clock. So it's 6:30. This concludes this agenda item. Before continuing with the 12th item of the agenda, I should like to inform you that, with regard to the 7th item of the agenda, the Committee on Transport at yesterday's meeting has not fully addressed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport, which is why this law cannot be considered by the National Assembly today. In this regard, the Presidents will today, in the context of the 74th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, propose to the Assembly that the debate and decision on that draft law be postponed to one of the following meetings. And as a matter of fact, we're moving on to 12. Agenda item - On defence of the Proposal for a Decision on the Security Programme and the development of the Scottish Cave Park 2006-2010, EPA 1017-IV. We have 1.30 minutes to discuss. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I welcome Minister Podobnik with my colleagues and give him my word for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u122	Good afternoon. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Preparation and adoption of the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjanska Cave Park is provided for in Article 13 of the Law on the Regional Park of the Škocjanska Cave, which was adopted in 1996. On this occasion, I would remind you of some important milestones. This text was the first legal provision under which it was established after 15 years, that is, after 1981 when the Triglav National Park was established, so a park protected area was re-established at the state level. From this point of view, we could say that this was our new country's first state park. The 1996 Act was intended to ensure the highest possible guarantee by the State for the protection of this area, which is also important in terms of the exceptionalness and uniqueness of its natural phenomena. 20 years ago, the area of the Škocjan Caves was also included in the UNESCO World Heritage List, and it is certainly important to stress that the entry of the Škocjan Caves into the list of the World Natural and Cultural Heritage was a truly remarkable fact, and this also made the area of Crassa and also Crassus an important feature of Slovenia an international recognition among rare other natural phenomena of global importance. This area, which the State has secured additionally in the form of a regional park, has also received a suitable place in the care of all Slovenian people because of its obligations to the International Community. In a way, we could also talk about a kind of national icon. I would also remind you that at the 20th anniversary of the entry into UNESCO, the list in Paris was a very pleasant meeting and the park management prepared a very resounding exhibition there. It was also an opportunity to meet with the Director-General of UNESCO at that time, and I had the honour of being at this reception. The government adopted the proposed programme for the protection and development of the Skocjan Cave Regional Park this spring and came to the hearing in the National Assembly this June. It would not be in its introductory explanation too long to explain the individual characteristics linked to both geomorphology, geology or hydrology, these are the arguments that made this area a world landmark. I could also mention the importance of paleontological and archaeological sites or of the ethnological and architectural characteristics of the area, but these were all already subject to thorough professional studies as well as sectoral evaluations. They were the basis for a comprehensive assessment of the state of natural values and cultural heritage as the basis for the preparation of this programme. An assessment is also made of what is currently at risk in terms of environmental protection in the regional park if I mention the appropriate collection and treatment of waste water and the problem of municipal waste disposal in the first place, by the way, we are successfully addressing this issue in cooperation with many municipalities. However, the particular issue is also in the sense of how the visit is managed in this area. In the final statements of this material, you may have traced some [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] studies and other analytical documents were provided for a comprehensive review of the situation. [[..]] However, the programme itself is intended in the main part for specific concrete measures to achieve the purpose of this programme document in the next five years. The measures are linked to nature conservation forces as well as to development objectives, including support for the development of individual activities, as well as support for the development of the local population. I must mention that the local people have accepted this park as their own and this communication with the park, with the team, with the administration is very direct. Monitoring and continuous education are also important. The purpose of this programme act is also to achieve a balanced development of these areas, which are connected and residing in the local population, interestingly, lives in this area of just under 70 people. At the same time, it wants to achieve effectively the objectives of the protection of the underground caves and the area above them. I am confident, Members and Members, that by adopting this document we will ensure the solutions that we must implement in this area, both for the sake of the importance of its natural and cultural wealth and, as has already been said, of the local population. There is no Scottish Cave Regional Park and there will be no exception. Such a policy is and must be ensured throughout the management of protected areas. In the light of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as some other comments, the amendments which have been incorporated and adopted by the Committee on the Environment have also been supported by representatives of the Government. Thank you very much for your attention, and I look forward to supporting this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The motion for a decree was also addressed by the Committee on the Environment and Space and I ask the president of the Committee, Mr Petan, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for a programme for the protection and development of the Škocjanska Cave Park for the period 2005 to 2009 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Public Institute of Park Škocjanska Cave, the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In the opening presentation of the proposal, the representative of the proposer, Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, stressed the importance of the entry of the Škocjan Caves into the UNESCO World Heritage List, which made this area of Crassus a major feature of Slovenia a recognition among extremely rare other natural phenomena of global importance. The proposed programme aims to preserve natural values and cultural heritage and to develop this protected area in a balanced manner, taking into account the needs of the local population. The programme is based on a series of professional evaluations and sectoral studies that provide a more comprehensive assessment of the state of natural value and cultural heritage. The programme sets out concrete measures to achieve the following objectives: acting in accordance with international conventions and organisations, environmental protection objectives, preservation of cultural landscapes and cultural heritage, development objectives, education and awareness-raising and monitoring. The programme pays particular attention to the manager of the Škocjanska Cave, this is the public Park Škocjanska Cave, funded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as its founder. The envisaged development will meet the social, cultural and economic needs of the local population while ensuring the objectives of protection in the park, so that the local people will be given additional employment opportunities and the quality of their stay and work conditions. Individual ministries will provide enabling policies in the area of environment, agriculture, tourism, culture, economy and regional development, which will be implemented in a way that subsidises, increases in remuneration and adjusted lending policies, in accordance with the applicable sectoral policy procedures. In this way, the Ministry of Environment and Space would provide priority funds for the implementation of municipal projects that will ensure the regulation of the water protection situation in the park area. It will also promote the building of local, economic, public infrastructure and rational energy use in the park and the influential area. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave an opinion, drew attention to the establishment of the entry into force of the proposed programme, and to the deletion of indicators and images from the content of the act. The Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported the above proposal, the Committee moved to a second reading of the proposal of the Skocjan Cave Protection and Development Programme, mentioning that no amendment to the proposal was tabled by qualified applicants, and the Committee, having regard to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, adopted amendments to the preamble to the title, to the index and to the pictures and to Chapters 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. This is because these amendments were necessary because of the changed timeframe for which the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Park of the Škocjanska Cave is adopted, this is for the period 2006-2010. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Environment and Space voted on and adopted all the chapters of the programme proposal together. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, a further proposal for a decree on the Skocjan Cave Protection and Development Programme is prepared for the period 2006 to 2010, which is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. On the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views, and as the first to invite Mr Jelen to the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u126	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the Scottish caves are unique and unique in the world, so because of their outstanding importance for the world’s natural heritage in 1986 they were also listed at UNESCO and in 1999 the park became recognised as the world’s first underground wetlands. The Republic of Slovenia committed itself immediately after the independence of Slovenia to ensure the active protection of the area and to this end to establish the Regional Park of the Škocjanska Cave and its manager. We are pleased that the Government has fulfilled its legal duty and has forwarded to the National Assembly the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Regional Park of the Škocjanska Cave, as this will enable the public institution to adopt the annual programme. We estimate that the proposal for a decree must certainly be adopted in this programme, as it will only be possible to ensure the solutions to be implemented in this area because of the importance of their natural and cultural wealth, which is to achieve a balanced development of that protected area, in which the activities of the local population are also included, as there are fewer than 70 people living there. Special attention is also paid to financial work in the programme. After the review, we can understand that funds will be made available to achieve the objectives of this programme, and we hope that they will also be used in a meaningful and purposeful manner. For this reason, in the DeSUS Group, we will be pleased to support the proposal for a resolution on the 2006-2010 Agenda for the Protection and Development of the Škocjan Cave Park.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Krivec, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The Skocjan Cave Regional Park was established in 1996, with the aim of maintaining and exploring exceptional geological and hydrological sights, rare animal and plant species, archaeological sites, ethnological and architectural characteristics, cultural landscapes and providing opportunities for appropriate development. The decision under consideration provides the legal basis for the adoption of a five-year programme for the protection and development of the Škocjan Caves. The Škocjanska Cave Park is listed on the World Cultural and Natural Heritage List, on the list of internationally important wetlands and on the Natura 2000 network. The Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia defines the area of the Škocjanska Cave as one of the areas of national recognition in terms of cultural and symbolic importance. The far most important facility in the complex park offer is the cave system itself. The number of visitors to the cave has been increasing from year to year since the establishment of the park. Since 1999, when about 45 thousand arrived, there has been an increase in the number of good 80,000, and it is important that foreigners dominate, while the proportion of domestic residents remains unchanged or even slightly declining. In addition to the caves, museum collections in the restored Jakopinov and Juri barn are increasingly being established as part of the additional tourist offer. In 2003, the Škocjan learning path was completed, covering a wider area including the villages of Bethany, Škocjan and Matavun. The influential area of the Škocjanska Cave Park is about 45,000 hectares and covers the entire river basin. It lies on the territory of five municipalities, Divaca, Hrpelje-Kozina, Illyrian Bistrica, Pivka and Postojna. Only the protected area is 413 hectares and is entirely located in the municipality of Divaca. It covers the river range before the sink in the Škocjanska Cave, the submerged part with the Great and the Small Valley, the surface above the entire cave system, and a series of incursions in the southern and northern parts. Many natural and cultural monuments are especially protected inside the parks. Individual sites of the area of natural values are threatened by waste mainly from the past, in particular karst caves and drills, and of course by an unorganized visit. Thus, it can still find wild landfills of municipal waste, which have recently been rehabilitated by locals and local societies. The collection and cleaning of waste water from the village to the park is not yet orderly. In the summer months of the park there is also an occasional problem of wild camping. Because of freezing and erosion in caves and dams, falling and creeping stones, which in the past destroyed parts of tourist routes, fences and bridges and increased the risk for visitors. Some objects, due to unregulated and fragmented ownership, are still falling and are abandoned or damaged. In 1999, from the former manager of the Škocjan Caves, the Institute received the management of the entire cave and cave network and the rest of the infrastructure. The Decision defines more important measures and objectives, such as the conservation of exceptional surface and subterranean karst phenomena, in particular caves, bilges and dams, the conservation of hydrological and hydro-geomorphological characteristics of the stream and river banks, the extension of the protected area of the park to contact the flute, the improvement of the quality of the water in the river and its streams, the limitation and reduction of pollution, the coordination and organisation of the natural characteristics of the park area, the conservation of rare endangered and other plant and animal species and their habitats, the conservation of ecosystems and their types of diversity, the insurance and management of archaeological and paleontological sites, the prevention of further deterioration of sites and areas of the cultural heritage, and their renewal and revittalisation, the preservation of cultural landscape and the prevention of the crop protection system, the restoration and the restoration of the changeable heritage system, the prevention of sites, the prevention of the continued deterioration of sites and the maintenance of such sites, in addition to the improvement of tourism-related activities, and the improvement of the provision of higher quality of the provision of tourism-related activities, and the provision of the provision of higher quality, and the maintenance of the provision of the tourism-related, and the maintenance of the provision of a higher quality of the protection of the protection of the public. It is crucial that all these activities involve the population living in this area. Therefore, the proposal for a decree that follows all these objectives is a good one and will ensure that planned action is completed in due course in the coming years, so we will be pleased to support this decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next is Dr. Gantar, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and respected colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] At the LDS, we regret that the proposal for a decree on the Škocjanska Cave Park Protection and Development Programme, which is the case for 2005-2006, was not addressed until the end of 2006. We therefore support the amendment, which nevertheless speaks of the programme from 2006 to 2010, although it would not be more appropriate for this programme to start with 2007 at the end of the year. We have been monitoring the development and operation of the park since the establishment of the LDS Club and also more broadly, in the client. We are pleased that this is a park that could be a model in many ways for other similar parks in Slovenia. Even for those we intend to establish or intend to establish, although I would say that this is not exactly in the programming objectives of this government. The park is generally considered to have a number of conflicts between sometimes harsh nature-protection and monumental protection requirements on one side and the needs, wishes and aspirations of people or others on the other. It is obvious, however, that this park can be said that it has largely been able to overcome such misunderstandings and is a real example of what we once called parks for life. In view of the report on the situation, we are pleased to see significant progress in the regulation of certain shortcomings, including as regards the cave infrastructure and other measures relating to the insurance of the underworld itself, as well as cooperation with the congregation and the surrounding villages. However, we would like these measures to be more rapid, and progress to be more obvious. But what was done was good, and we expect it to continue. Of course, we add to the warnings that we should take more account of in the document. It is our assessment that the problem of the threat and disappearance of biodiversity is immediately behind certain other threats, such as direct interventions into ecosystems and their disappearance, that today, in fact, the intrusion of alien invasive species is a major problem. We do not pay enough attention to this area of nature threats, although foreign invasive species may cause major environmental, economic and health problems. As a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Convention on the Protection of Free Living Plantations and Animals and their natural habitats, Slovenia should pay more attention to this rather new problem and in this area of nature and the environment. Many documents, guidelines, strategies on how to address the problem of alien invasive species have also been prepared under this Convention and other conventions. Since the Scottish caves are an extremely important monument, the document should also include options, i.e. new threats to and the prevention of such threats and the impact of alien invasive species. Despite certain shortcomings, many more could be added, many more could be stressed or less, but we believe that the proposal for a decree covering the programme for the protection and development of the park of the Škocjanska Cave is good, well managed, properly targeted and will also be supported by the LDS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democrats, Mrs Pecanov will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats we will support this decision, because it is urgently needed, this is the first. The second, which reflects the extremely large and quality work that takes place in the Skocjan Cave Regional Park, which we can say, can be an example of any park we have set up in Slovenia, including the Triglav National Park, because it is with an extremely small team, but with an extremely large intrusion of all people who are professionally committed to the development of the Škocjanska Cave Park as well as all those who live in the park area and who have not rejected it at the time of the adoption of the Park itself, but who have taken it for their own, have not taken the announcement of the Škocjanska Cave Park as a barrier as some kind of burden in their daily lives, but have taken it as an opportunity, as an opportunity and it is also very clear. It is clear that, of course, they cannot overcome and overcome all the problems that arise in the implementation of the plans, so it is right to determine the means that they will be obliged to provide, of course, the State, because, after all, it is such a park that can also be as some kind of model for other parks, which were later established as Park Škocjanska Caves, if you could only mention the Kozian Park and the Park in Goričkem, which is even international and therefore is so much more interesting and important, but both, in particular these latter ones, are certainly experiencing severe moments during their initial development and may be the decision that we are making today. I can only, we can only say that the development of the park of the Škocjanska Cave, which also includes an interesting decision to limit the number of visitors sooner or later, I think that the actual maximum number of visitors have already reached, which means that it will be like the French caves where they even went so far as to create an artificial image of the cave. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] ., in order to prevent the destruction of the paintings created by man, that we will probably get something like this in us, not even the artificial Škocjan Cave, but of course the number of visitors and thus the insurance of the natural heritage that we have managed to place in the heritage of humanity within UNESCO. I think that the way in which the water park of the Škocjanska Cave is also a strong guarantee of UNESCO, that its inclusion in the heritage of humanity has been legal and that the care that we are devoting to the Škocjan Caves is also a kind of good journey to other projects that we have been actually applying for the heritage of humanity for years now has not yet been successful. However, I am sure that we can count on the success of other similar projects on trips such as the Škocjanska Cave Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Koren, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you, President, for your word. Good greetings to the Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and others present! First of all, thanks to those who have set up panoramas in the lobby with some beautiful paintings from our Crassus, from the area of the Scottish Caves. I think it's easier to talk and discuss this topic today. Let me start by saying that the Members of New Slovenia will support this proposed Programme for the Protection and Development of the Park of the Škocjanska Cave. It is right that the current inhabitants in the area of part of the Earth called Slovenia are aware of the beauty and specialities that this part of the world has. And one such pearl is certainly the area of the park of the Škocjanska Cave. Others are also aware of the importance of this area, since otherwise it would not have been possible to register the Scottish Caves 20 years ago on the list of the world natural and cultural heritage of Unesca. Since the Scottish caves are of global importance, it is logical that the Skocjan Cave Regional Park was established by law to preserve and explore exceptional geomorphological, geological and hydrological sights, rare and endangered plant and animal species. The Regional Park was established by law, which is also the basis for the adoption of the Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjan Caves. The proposed programme covers the programme guidelines of the State and the municipality of Divac, in which the park lies. The purpose of this programme act is to achieve a balanced development of these areas, linked and sunny to the local population. Due to the regional park, locals must not be in a significantly worse position than other inhabitants of Slovenia. The protection programme itself stems from a series of professional evaluations and studies that provide a comprehensive assessment of the state of natural values and cultural heritage. The area is certainly threatened mainly from the point of view of environmental protection, with waste water and municipal waste. A number of funding will be needed to implement the programme under consideration. In the New Slovenia Group, we want the institution to acquire as much funding as possible, both by its activities and by applying to our ministries' calls. We are convinced that European funds can also be obtained for this programme, and this is significant. According to the New Slovenia Group, the programme sets out the objectives and measures that are good and we will support the proposed programme. It is up to all of us, along with the inhabitants in this area, to make sure that this pearl is abandoned to our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Preseknik has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! As Mr Minister for Environment and Space said in the introduction, we are also aware of the importance of the entry of the Scottish Caves into the UNESCO World Heritage List in the Slovenian People's Party. The Skocjan Cave Regional Park was established by the Skocjan Cave Regional Park Act to preserve and explore exceptional geomorphological, geological and hydrological sights, rare and endangered plant and animal species, paleontological and archaeological sites, ethnological and architectural characteristics and cultural landscapes, and to provide opportunities for appropriate development. The Act is also the basis for the adoption of the five-year Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjan Caves, which covers the programming orientations of the State and the municipality of Divac and is prepared on the basis of inventory and professional backgrounds and guidelines. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the successful operation of the public institution at national and international level represents a significant contribution to the protection of the natural and cultural heritage of the Škocjanska Cave park as a world pearl and the promotion of our country. The proposal for a Programme for the Protection and Development of the Škocjanska Cave Park for the period 2005 to 2009 and 2006 to 2010 should be adopted as soon as possible, as it constitutes a fundamental and legal basis for the good of the Public Institute of the Park of Škocjanska Cave. Most importantly, it seems to us that the park's development and the objectives of park protection will be envisaged to enable and meet the social, cultural and economic needs of the local population. Such a programme will provide additional development and employment opportunities for local people in this area and create a quality of living and working environment. Of course, individual competent ministries have an important task to provide enabling policies in the area of environment, agriculture, tourism, culture, economy and regional development in the park of the Škocjan Cave and in an influential area. The forms of subsidisation, increased remuneration and adjustment of the lending policy under the current sectoral policy procedures will enable the development of an area and a better life for the population in an influential area. As with any development in this area, it is also important to prioritise relevant municipal projects, so we particularly support the aim of the Ministry of Environment and Space to provide a priority tool for the implementation of municipal projects that will ensure the regulation of the water protection situation in the park area and also support the construction of local economic infrastructure and rational energy use in the park and in an influential area. As I said in the introduction, we will support the members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u137	And the last one has the word Mr Friend on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Scottish caves are the Ambassador of Slovenia, there is no doubt about it, and whatever you say about the entry into the UNESCO list would be unnecessary if the work in the Škocjan Caves did not just take place positively and I would also like to highlight something about this work. The Minister's words were encouraging, which he wrote with Director Debevec in Paris, when he and his colleague Debevec were at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris, where we also met the director of UNESCO for a good preparation and exhibition, marked this important event and, of course, contributed to the fact that the entire Slovenian professional public recognized this beauty of this Crassus. We can see this over and over again when we look at the visiting book, because the visit is increasing, and the fact is that it is this very relationship with the locals that does not guarantee that there are no problems in this area. As President of the Club of the Primorski Members, I have taken the Members of the Primorje to this place, and some of them today have also spoken about this speaker. We ourselves have come to know this issue in this place and it is positive that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finds financial support and offers essentially this support, which is needed at work to the management of this institution. If we are talking about a possible small adjustment, about obtaining European grants, I would like to give this public institution a model. In this public office there are quite a few intellectuals working on it, and all of them must, I stress, prepare one annual programme to obtain grants. This is encouraging, and the government may also find a pattern and care in the same way. Of course, the preservation of natural values and cultural heritage and the balanced development of this insurance area in essence also require professional grounds, these professional bases are certainly covered in this programme, which is possible today with a little delay ahead of us. Once again, I would like to say, I am pleased that not one today has been able to criticize the work of this public institution and also to commend the Minister. On the initiative of 21 April 2005, I myself reminded the Minister that it was essentially necessary to devote a few million tolars beyond what was intended for the public office, because people's lives were at risk there because flood safety was not adequately taken care of because the change was said. And the Minister, I must say thank you very much, he found kindness and the immediate action also dictated implementing works and the fact is that these implementing works also met the needs there. I must say, the people in this place are not happy to be at home where they are, because the regime in this place is very cruel. They must not intervene into the space, they must not rebuild the house as we can, by notifying parts, but are essentially certain procedures for the use of materials compulsory and also to intervene into the space in the sense of simply providing fuel for the winter supply, not only are they allowed to go but they cut the forest because there are other rules. And of course, so much more attention is needed by the Government to find the necessary financial means to replace it in some way. And I can see that I come from this environment that the Government or the Ministry of the Interior has found this kind of understanding for these people and I am glad that it has not only taken account of the preservation of cultural heritage, the balanced development and the restoration of cultural monuments and other values left there by our predecessors. As has already been said, the park itself has lived in the presentation of what it once represents life in this park. A number of buildings have been renovated in this park and I would recommend to each of us if he only had time to take a look at the Scottish caves, as well as to try the culinary specialties that are being prepared there and to get acquainted with the way of life that was present centuries ago. And maybe finally this. Scottish caves have good leadership. I myself am surprised that this Government, Mr Janša's Government, essentially confirmed what was good and gave this director a mandate, which he was doing well again, although there were concerns at the beginning of the second, but I think that what he is doing well needs to be preserved and so it is. So, no one has said a compliment today to the director, Mr. Debevec. I say it from this town because he's a really good director.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members. Yes, right away, Minister, just to finish my sentence, if I may. Therefore, there is a debate between Members and Members on the motion for a decree and, of course, the Minister can come forward at any time and give you my word. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry I interrupted your session. First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for their principled and substantive support for the proposed decision. What Mr. Friend said is true. I also believe that the director and the entire team of this park are professional, very professional and the atmosphere in the park is good, we work well with him, especially with Mr Debevec. However, I think the climate is also good in other parks. Sometimes it's good to brag a little. I would risk the assessment that as a minister and as a government coalition - that the years of fatter cows have begun for Slovenian parks, in a financial sense, even in terms of dealing with them. This does not mean that the team led by Mr Berginc has not worked intensively in this area at all times, but the previous mandate was a little more firm on this issue, it had some other priorities. However, we now have a serious goal every year to create one new park, both financially and substantively supporting the development of current parks, and I am pleased with this direction. Well, I'd like to support your thoughts on coexisting with the locals. There may be some weakness there, but in principle this park is the biggest symbiosis, and there is one small park to be said. Here I would like to say that one of the solutions that turned out to be good in Slovenia seems to be that, because of the European position, the European Union's position that farmers who have their own areas in the park area, as well as in regional parks or natural parks, I think one, national, could have a subsidy allowance of 15% or 20%. Unfortunately, this solution will no longer be possible, and in this way we have further encouraged, I would say, sonar farming in these areas, but we may find another way. Biodiversity was mentioned. We have also been warned that we are not paying much attention to alien invasive species. This is a serious problem that we are aware of both in Slovenia and in the European Union. Yesterday I was on the environmental world in Brussels. Slovenia will also actively participate in a specific programme to halt biodiversity, i.e. the decline of biodiversity by 2010. As one of the priorities for the EU Presidency in terms of nature will be biodiversity, I can assure you that this area has special attention from our point of view. Finally, for the Government we are also preparing a proposal for specific actions to preserve biodiversity in Slovenia based on the strategy. Another topic I would like to touch on is how to face the positive trend that there is an ever-increasing number of visitors in this well-organised park; as has been said, the number has doubled since its establishment. In fact, what we would see from this material would be a proactive way. We would not go to the limit or to go along the way of raising the ticket price, but we would go the other way: we would support the opening of new cave capacity. This would extend the area of the caves themselves, but it will also sustain a larger number of visitors, so that we want to continue on this path. I would also reaffirm that in the implementation of certain municipal infrastructures, the municipality and the municipality covered by this area will have an advantage in order for this important aspect to be regulated and to be proud of Slovenia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. Now we continue with the reported debaters. Some of them are missing, some of them have checked out. By inviting Mrs. Pechanovo to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u142	I think that something more to add to these discussions and, of course, to the addition of the Minister, I have every honour, of course, to the Ministry of Environment and Space, to make sure that it can choose from such a very restrictive budget as it has been announced in the past two years and in the next two years to be able to provide more money for the natural park, the Triglav Park and the regional parks. I think that this is not only commendable, but also important support for the development of the economy. The fact is that the Ministry of the Economy should especially appreciate this effort because it is actually the basis for the development of tourism. I must say that I know very well, except our unfortunately still large majority at the beginning of development, because there was simply no special hearing about it so far, and I know therefore and can compare many of the natural parks in Europe, in the European Union and even the associated Member States, as well as in Croatia. It must be said that none of these parks, as well as various important cultural monuments, is intended for itself. All these parks carry visible revenues in the regional area, because they are interesting, one point I would like to stress, one point you yourself said, I would like to point out, namely that the number of domestic guests in the park of the Škocjanska Cave is even decreasing and the number of foreign guests is greatly increasing. I think that, for example, if we look at France, it is an interesting example that domestic tourism is much more profitable or much more transport ensures than foreign tourism. And because France has systematically invested in the most underdeveloped area, it is in such interesting cases as individual parks, caves, various castles, where they happen, that things happen all the time. For example, Dolmens in France were set up in the middle of nowhere, or in the middle of the Gogenov region or the Vangog region of maize and sunflowers, where it is possible to see Dolmens, how they were made, how they were made of flint tools, etc. It is said that in some way for the everyday life of insignificant things. But there are 100,000 visitors per year, especially the French. So it's interesting that we ourselves don't know our country, and here I think that the effort of people working in parks like the Park of the Škocjanska Cave, such as the Kozjansko Park, such as Goričko Park, such as I, other parks now say, I will say, like Soline in the Sečovje and similar attractions, there is a lot of support to the people who manage and run these parks, because they actually provide the possibility of developing the environment in which they are located. Therefore, I would not agree with a colleague who said that people living in the park of the Škocjan Cave have problems themselves. It is the management of a park or a public institution that makes it a genuine relationship with people, explaining how they can actually improve living and working conditions, including the possibility of a profit that they would not otherwise have if there were no park. It should be known that this area was underdeveloped and that the park brought some new development, some new prosperity. And here I think, fortunately, the Ministry of Environment and Space gives such parks a lot of support. I hope that similar support will also give development, although not the park, but important natural and cultural attractions, Lipica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I look forward to this paper, and I would be even more pleased if the development and protection programme, the protected area also had another law here at the National Assembly on the table, a park lying next to it, and this is for Kobilna Lipica. For example, if the Government did not skip this path and bring a development programme for this institution, which is also connected to the protected area of the Krajina, this law and the programme itself might not have agreed to the constitutional court and it did not have so many problems, not only for those who live and work there, but also for the people who deal with these laws as a result. What I wanted to point out, Mr. Secretary, is that we're going to go to a time when cows are thicker because you're going to protect these parks more. I remind you, and I hope that you will be committed here, that the Law on the TNP - on the Triglav National Park will not stand in place and that, of course, you will prepare it as soon as possible in the spirit of today’s promises. However, what I would like to ask you and perhaps I have overlooked, and perhaps fortunately not, Mr Minister, whether it means that in this development programme there by 2009 or by the end of 2010, or whether that proposal by your colleague or European Member of Peterlet, acting as President of the Society for the Construction of the European Museum, is still alive in this spirit, as it was intended or as his fellows or colleagues think it would be good for this museum to be at the edge of the Škocjan Park or near it. We know that there were 26 locations and that one of them has also for quite some time reflected heavily to be here. As I know, these locations have somehow been reduced in 7 other areas, but among them is also Rakov Škocjan, which is, of course, nearby, but that does not yet mean. Given that the programmes you have here in the table also include the development of this tourist infrastructure and the preservation of the architectural landscape, I ask if this project remains in play as planned. Do we know that the inhabitants themselves, or some others, did not agree with him, despite the fact that he might have brought the flow of tourism? The second thing I'd like to warn you about is the preparers. I hope that within this park you will also pay due attention to the final presentation, not more research, because the research was done there in the beginning of 1880, when the Divas Cave was discovered, the underground cave, which also spreads the park, I think this edge. This Divas cave, the underground cave discovered by Mr. Žiberna in Divaca, has a very poor tourist presentation, but, as we know, is known, if not the other, for saying those famous thoughts in it, Mr. Freud, when he traveled from Trieste to Vienna or when he stopped at night in Divaca, slept there, as he did in the old days, visited this cave and said this main interesting association - "that the caves are like women, more than you go in, you see less and you know less." In short, he wrote in this famous letter to his friend in Vienna, after not only sleeping in Divaca and he looked at this Divasca cave, where, as he wrote, he was led by some falsified genius, he was a little drunk by this Mr. Žiberna, but he was also a great cave knower, he remained also in the Scottish caves and near where, I say, this thought of the caves and the secrets of women was consolidated. Whether tourism and presentation activities are also increasing in this direction, you have a very precise presentation plan, up to the last flyers, which is good, and I must say that also commendablely, even more commendablely, it is interesting to say that the planned structure of resources is interesting. The revenues of own resources in the park itself are higher than the revenues provided by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is significantly higher than we are used to elsewhere. This means that there are good governance and interesting projects and that this programme is looking for other ways and other directions to make these projects even better or even more active within, I hope that the European funds that we do not yet see in this funding structure are presented. In short, one question and a few recommendations on how to cover not only the Divas caves and other caves nearby, but also the remaining additional offer. Here, Minister, I would appeal that we somehow question the conscience of your fellow Minister of Culture, who renounces the aid of building a museum in Divaca as one activity that would certainly increase this tourism flow. But it's a museum of Slovenian film players. The municipality has done 100% of everything that could be done, the real purchases of land, the preparation of projects and the provision of funds, while the Ministry of Culture has not been able to make enough effort to make a recommendation letter to run for the Dutch financial funds, come from this ministry and at least a guarantee for funds that could be obtained for this purpose, it is said that Slovenia would not have had to participate so much directly, but would have done so by foundations from the Dutch financial fund, none of which. In short, even for recommending that you somehow knock on your conscience in the context of the additional offer of this park, tourist, cultural and so on, will not harm. I'm sure he'll believe you more than we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Although the atmosphere is becoming increasingly saturated with the idea, the ego and the super ego must continue with the list. There's only a minister on the list. There's no one else on the list. Please, Minister, so you have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'd like to briefly answer a few questions. First of all, I would like to support Mrs. Pecanova's thinking, which says it is right to cooperate with the entire field of tourism. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Are we over the clock? [[...]] Well, then I'm done, too. That is said, we will support cooperation, we will use the European funds. The Law on the Triglav National Park, Mrs Shirca, is now at an important stage in writing the text. The working group is working well, I must commend them, today was a full-day meeting on this subject. The text will probably be written in the coming months and then we'll move on. It's a giant pit. The Caves Act covers it, is managed by a large-scale lobster society. Otherwise, what Freud says is, "the more you go in, the less you see, the less you know," but for the Scottish caves, the more you see, the more you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. All those of you who wanted it, and a black small number, you've got your word. But time has not yet run out. So we can share time according to the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you to sign up for the one you want to discuss by electronic means and the minister by hand. The application shall be made. Thank you very much. Each one has five minutes. Minister, would you like to go to the beginning or the end? [[At the end.]] Then I'd like to ask my friend Ziherl first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to stress once again some of the lessons that we have already discussed on the Committee on the Environment and the spaces that speak in favour of the proposal for this Decision. We have already discussed a large proportion of self-financing from our own activities at the meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space, which is very commendable and it is only in this area that we want to continue to do so. With European funds, for which there are great opportunities, the financial problem could also be successfully solved in the future. We also talked about four hamlets in the park area, where people have already convinced themselves that they have opted for organic farming, which is very good, because the cave ecosystem itself is very sensitive. It is likely that there will be a need to continue to monitor the industry closely, which could have any negative impact on the park area itself. However, I think that if it has been successful enough so far, we can also ensure this for the future. He also appreciates a visit that may be courteous. Indeed, it is a great visit for business, it is good for awareness, it is good for education, but it can become bad for the environment, as some colleagues and colleagues have warned from experience in the world. Perhaps we should consider some absorption capacity of the cave or perhaps some periods are more appropriate, some less suitable to visit, and perhaps some advertising or advisory measures should be recommended - I imagine, perhaps when such and such investment is less suitable, less visitors, when the period is drier, more visitors or vice versa. I would also like to point out that at that time and today we could make sure that the cave itself has good management or the park management has good management and well-trained professionals, as we were equipped with very nice materials, where we could see all the other dimensions of the park, from archaeological sites to fauna and flora, which are connected to the park. So once again, I'd like to congratulate management, thank you for bringing such a good thing. At the same time, managing such a natural pearl would be an obligation to work successfully further. After all that has been said, I certainly support the proposal for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you, for your word. In the decision on the Programme of Protection and Development of the Park of Škocjanska Cave, I would like to draw attention to some of the facts that surprise me, but at the same time not. The fact is that in the influential area of this park there are still unregulated black landfills, that there are still unregulated wells, no sewage treatment plants, no clean-up plants, no fixed landfills, production in the back is still extremely burdensome for the environment. This is something that I always try to point out in the debates or in the Law on Nature Conservation or in the establishment of regional parks, that in Slovenia nature is the main consideration of nature, and much less about the person who lives in this nature and is in the influential area of these parks. When we look at this example of how important this park of Škocjanski caves is both in Slovenian, European and on a global scale, it is in fact a great surprise that we are still recording such a situation in the background. In particular, I would like to point out that the amendment I proposed in the consideration of the Nature Conservation Act has been rejected, where I have proposed that so-called environmental ecologys be placed in the protected areas as a priority, not only waste water treatment plants, but also environmental technologies used by businesses and should be used in this environment, so that this nature is, of course, truly preserved. The Ministry's interests were not so and in fact rejected this proposal when we discussed this law. This is also the case in the case of the park of the Škocjan Caves. Therefore, I believe that, if we really want to talk about a well-managed nature-care environment and in particular in line with the needs of people in this environment, we would change our thinking both at the Ministry of the Environment and in all those who write these laws. Years ago, when we talked about the park Kočevsko-Kolpa, it was one of the directions I suggested that we go try the so-called biosphere reserve. Today, here in this building we can read Man and Biosphere, and also Park Škocjanska Cave was admitted to the world biosphere reserve areas at UNESCO headquarters in Paris on 29 October 2004. These areas are important because they reveal the connection between man and nature. At the time when I proposed this, it was far from acceptable in Slovenia to have biosphere reservations in Slovenia. I ask what has now come to mind in this period that we have an interest, that we are involved in this programme of Man and Biosphere, which, as I said, is based on the principles of pooling biological values and simultaneously developing the human population. In particular, cooperation with local communities is very important here. Cooperation with local communities is one of the biggest shortcomings of nature and the Ministry of Environment and Space when we discuss this programme. If that were not the case, it would not have happened that Slovenia's entry into the European Union, not in the case of Natura 2000, would have been forced to enter the European Union and that we must define an internationally important network of plant species and habitats, so there would not have been such an uncontrolled declaration of the Natura 2000 area. In fact, this area has been declared completely beyond the cooperation of the people, the local population, the local communities. And this shows and confirms my conviction and the fact that in Slovenia we still think past people about nature conservation, which is the biggest mistake. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] How Natura 2000 will reflect - and also in Natura 2000 is included the Škocjanska Cave Park - in Slovenia, when we have more than one third of the area involved in this, however, if it is not already willing to listen to the Natura 2000 review, it is important to obtain information and to provide the National Assembly with information on how this international European surveillance is taking place in the Natura 2000 areas that have already been definitively established and have been in place for years. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I think this surveillance is extremely strict and it would be good to get this information in Slovenia before they finally decide in Brussels that this area is as it is included in Natura 2000 [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. And he's probably still on the i, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Once again, I agree with Mr Ziherl's assessment that the Park Management Management is good, [[I don't see Mr. Ziherl.]] And I'm just re-establishing your joint assessment. I am also pleased at the expressions of eco-economy, which is gaining increasing validity in the area of parks, as well as its assessments of the dweltness of the visit. But we've already told you how we're going to deal with this. Maybe just a few more comments about Mr. Weber's performance. One of the great paradoxes that does not really confirm his principled position is that in Slovenia people want to live more and more in parks because they see them as a development opportunity. I'm a lot in the field between people and people and congregations fighting for parks, not the other way around. The latest survey says that more than 40 per cent of Slovenians already support the Nature 2000 instrument and also the behaviour about it is growing and see positive elements. An example of good practice is the landscape park Goričko, 11 municipalities, 20 thousand people live in it. And they got a great catch, even there, and they understand the park as a developmental hot spot in this part of the country, which is also borderline. So it seems to me that this, I would say, this separation of people in the park, the park itself, is shrinking. And that's a good direction. With regard to the MAP or the biosphere reserve, it is unfortunate that you are a member if you are first declared a park. Then you can enter this extra security system. There's no other way. There's something else I'd like to mention. We are continuing a special program for the rehabilitation of some areas bordering on the park. This is particularly true for the Illyrian-Bistric region. The former Tokk factory, a cleaning plant, was designed precisely for these purposes to protect the river River. We are concluding a programme for the management of this transport of dangerous substances in this area, special oils, oil, etc. We're very much on guard here. Mr Vice President, can I answer the previous questions or is it not allowed? There's no time. I also wanted to comment on the initiative and support of MEP Peterlet. But we'll open this darkness another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u153	Excuse me, Minister, you have time, only others have no time to answer. You can talk for two minutes and 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u154	I will briefly answer two more questions that have been asked. The first question by Mrs Shirce was how I cooperated and should appeal to the colleague of Minister Simoniti, to his conscience. I would like to say that Mr Simoniti, I know him as a good minister and very open to cooperation in many areas. I also know this idea of the museum, of Slovenian, I think a film that would be a memory of the famous Ito Rino who lived in this area, and I am also aware of the ambition of the new leadership of the municipality itself to move this project forward. But we must admit that this idea and this project are not linked to a point that is on the agenda today directly. Similarly, the Skocjanska Cave Regional Park Act does not raise issues related to the functioning of Lipica itself. That's a different subject. We'll meet you there. However, I would like to answer you with a specific question. My principal opinion as Minister is that it is the idea of the European Member of Peterlet to find as much consensus as possible and to build the European Museum of Crassus in a suitable location, that this is not a bad idea, but to place it in a space with knowledge of certain professional and other relations, but it is not an easy task. I can assure you that there is no place to touch the landscape park, that is, the Škocjan cave, in the game. I am also aware of the great sensitivity of the locations themselves, which are linked to Rakov Škocjan. And as an example of good practice, I would also mention the Scottish Gulf. The great project initiated by Dr. Gantar will be successfully completed in my mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a decree, the assembly will hold its decision-making session today in the framework of the vote in half an hour. And as an incentive to round prices in euro down, we will also vote down and we will vote at 17.55. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u156	Dear Members, please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the 2004 report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions proposed by the Assembly by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We are moving on to a decision on the first proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on a second proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 8. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - re-decision on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 8. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Traffic Act. Since the Transport Committee has not prepared the bill for consideration at the meeting of the assembly, I propose, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, that the Council postpone the consideration of this item to one of the following meetings. Does anyone want to discuss the procedural proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Weber, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we have already proposed that this point should be withdrawn when adopting the agenda for this meeting of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, for probably unknown reasons or, if this reason is again that the proposal was made at the time, it appears, the party which should not have done so was not accepted. And it turned out that this law would not be dealt with in an urgent or urgent manner. All the warnings given by the President's College, as well as the warnings given by the Legal and Legislative Services, were obviously not sufficient. The fact is that this law is indeed one of the most difficult and it deals with an extremely important issue and that, last but not least, the text of the law is written in a way that is difficult to formulate, so that it will follow all the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service and, lastly, the directives of the European Union which regulate this area, the area of security and also the openness of the rail network for other operators. Of course, we support this procedural proposal to move this to one of the next meetings, but we regret that this is happening only now that we can all come to realize that the law has not really been prepared and that our proposal has not been taken into account in the adoption of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote on the procedural proposal. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 12th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the programme for the protection and development of the park of the Škocjanska Cave for the period 2006-2010. We're moving on to decision-making. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have failed to inform me that, due to the decision adopted by the amendment, the decision on the home work body would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the ruling is under way. 76 Members and Members were present, 76 of them voted against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 5th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a law on religious freedom. At its 19th meeting, on 11 and 13 July 2006, the National Assembly held a second and third reading of that proposal. On this agenda item, the LDS, SD, SNS and DeSUS members announced obstruction. Before voting on the adoption of the law, the assembly, at the proposal of the SDS Group of Members, decided to vote on the law at one of the future meetings of the assembly. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that due to the parent body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. Mr. Rop, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u159	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the LDS, of course, we can speak at this point and we can speak procedurally. I would like to express our regret that we have been in the decision-making and voting phase for six months at this time. We have predicted obstruction, we have predicted obstruction, because we are convinced that the law in the part where it does not guarantee the equality of different religious communities in Slovenia is poor, inadequate and, according to our assessment, also unconstitutional. We therefore do not believe that this law will, at the end of the day, in the form that it has been adopted and is also proposed today, also inform. We are convinced that, last but not least, the amendment of the Income Act, the new Income Act, has brought some solutions to the financing of religious communities, with which we have resolved important problems in the functioning and financing of religious communities, and therefore we are even more convinced that these solutions, which now introduce, in a particular case, even double funding for only one religious community, are very weak and therefore we propose to the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members that they think carefully before deciding in this law. We suggest that you reject it and prevent further complications with regard to this law. Thank you very much. Of course, I predict the continuation of our obstruction. We will not cooperate in deciding this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-19-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u160	Mr. Rob, it wouldn't be necessary, because you've already announced obstruction once and for all. An explanation of the voice? The explanations of vote are complete. You have a procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 23rd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Notice. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will begin work by examining the Commission's Work Report on Intelligence and Security Services in 2005. The report is strictly confidential and will therefore be dealt with in accordance with the Secret Data Act. Since you will receive the material before the opening of this item, please come to the meeting in time. I would also like to point out that electronic devices such as portable phones, laptops, tape recorders, etc. will not be allowed to enter the hall. Thank you for your attention. Good night.
