ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Stanislav Brenčič from 17:00 p.m. on, Alenka Jeraj until 12.00 p.m., Jožef Jerovšek, Franz Kangler, Breda Pecan, Milan Petek, Villa Rezman from 13.00 p.m. on, mag. Borut Saiovic, Aloys Sok, Milenko Ziherl by 2 p.m. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Act. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u2	Well-welcome, distinguished Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act eliminates certain shortcomings and introduces better solutions mainly in the following areas: cash social assistance, family assistants and the possibility of shorter institutional protection for older people in hospitals. The main objective is therefore to improve the existing state of affairs, to manage public expenditure on the one hand and to achieve greater work of capable persons and to improve the control and fairness of the allocation of financial social assistance and to improve the control over the use of funds by beneficiaries of exceptional financial social assistance. With regard to monetary social assistance, we are introducing more effective incentives for unemployed recipients of social assistance to work more effectively for all who are able to do so. The receipt of cash social assistance after employment, i.e. when employment is already concluded, shall be suspended from that point on. So far, according to the rules in force, he has received financial social assistance and at the same time also financial compensation, where rights have been duped. Improving control over the use of funds by beneficiaries. Clearer evidence of the use of funds is needed, as the Court of Auditors has also pointed out. A legal basis is being developed for obtaining control data on beneficiaries' receipts of financial social assistance for a longer period of time, which will be the basis for a more effective exchange of data between public records. It allows social work centres not to allocate funds in those cases where the applicant finds that it was only a declaration of his own household at the same address that he was already staying at with a view to obtaining material benefit from the higher price for the financial social assistance applicable to the independent investor. With regard to the family assistant, the provision of coordination took the most time, including with both communities or associations of municipalities, as this affects the use of municipal budgets in the Republic of Slovenia and also affects the system of use of funds from the state budget itself. The proposal removes the deficiencies identified in the period following the introduction of this social and human measure for people in need of assistance in the performance of most of their functions and regulates the selection of a family assistant in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Constitutional Court Decision. That the participation of the congregations was guaranteed — there was a dilemma or a decision by the congregation. In the case of a family assistant and of other rights, one administrative authority must decide. It's not possible for me to make two decisions. However, the participation of the municipalities is ensured. The financing of a family assistant shall be regulated in a manner also applicable to the financing of other similar social security services. From now on, the rights and choices of a family assistant will be decided by specialised disability commissions, thus ensuring a higher level of professional decision-making, which has so far raised several questions about the competence of existing commissions. The law introduces the purposeful use of funds that the beneficiaries of the family assistant have received in this regard for foreign care and assistance, or for assistance and service. Following the regulation so far, this right has calmed down and these rights are also invoked and the status of these operators is improved, while at the same time lower spending from municipal budgets. This will reduce the expenditure from their budgets for up to a third of the municipalities as family assistants. However, pending the adoption of the new system legislation governing the financing of municipalities, the calculation of funds is also arranged for those municipalities where the co-financing of the family assistant will exceed 0.35% of the funds from the appropriate spending of that municipality. We also introduce institutional protection for the elderly in hospitals, which allows immediate inclusion in institutional protection for those who complete acute hospital treatment, but the medical situation does not yet allow them to live alone or cannot be provided with adequate care and care at home, but in the home of older citizens, immediate reception is not possible. Such regulation is of a temporary nature and is carried out by the provisions of the Social Protection Act and the resulting sub-legal acts. The content of the law was previously coordinated with the social partners, i.e. prior to the consideration and adoption of the Government and the National Assembly in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. Please, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I very much welcome my fellow Members and Mr Minister with his team. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we have, through the previous examination of this subject law, which has been present for quite some time in the National Assembly, and this debate has been devoted to many, many hours of the work of this National Assembly, to supporting the purpose and concept of the law as such, and we do not have much to add now in the third reading. The key areas covered by this novelty are the financing of a family assistant and the issue of the right to financial social assistance. We certainly support the adoption of the law as soon as possible. On the question of a family assistant also, so that municipal budget planners can set a budget for the following year for the visa of new funding of the assistant in a timely manner. However, as regards the right to financial assistance and the related obligations of the recipient of this aid, we are still in the Slovenian People's Party's Group's opinion that it is right not to identify the obligation exactly as the recipient of the unemployment benefit as the recipient of the financial social assistance. Here there must be one, I would say, for a nuance he is squandering the approach to these obligations that he must have to have to work and take over any appropriate part of the one who receives monetary social assistance from the higher-and-the-one who receives compensation for the period of unemployment for which he, as a debtor, also paid through the insurance system. In any case, we support the law and we also want it to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister and Madam Secretary, Secretary of State at the Ministry! The speaker in front of me said that it was a nuance that pushes the approach under this law. I will say that it is in certain segments of the law that substantially shakes the approach, and this stubbornness will undoubtedly be felt by those who are found in the unemployment records of job seekers. The new Social Protection Act is undoubtedly part of the government's social reforms. The social reforms whose key leadership is supposed to be or should be, according to the Minister, social justice, are, I will say, very restrictive and, in my opinion, unfair. Also, the words of Minister Drobnič, spoken at the time of the presentation of this law, the law on social protection, are big words, sound at first sight very nice, very promising, but I estimate that they are primarily following an ideology, an ideology, if you want, a capital-oriented government coalition, which is not really a concern of the individual who is on the verge of social survival. The Minister still today apologises for the very strict rules laid down under Article 23 of this Law, which is that recipients of financial assistance must accept any work, as they do not otherwise have the support mentioned above, but that in the past there have been violations and abuses. Clearly, this is the only way to prevent some abuse that has really taken place. I'm fastening. However, I would still call on the Minister here, because we know that there are other measures that the government can use to eliminate some abuses and, of course, punish those that have violated clearly-written rules under the existing law. Amendments from opposition parties have already been tabled on the parent’s working body, which have partially eliminated this unacceptable anomaly. The Minister of Social Affairs gave clear instructions and the coalition MPs overrun the amendments. Today, too, we have very similar amendments on the table, which led to at least minimal protection for unemployed people entitled to financial social assistance. And I will repeat my words at one of the previous meetings. It's easy to speak and be smart in this place, believe me, but it's hard for the hell out of those who are in the institution today as job seekers or unemployed, recipients of the social minimum. But more so when we consider amendments tabled in Article 23 of the Law at this meeting. Allow me to touch on the other content of the law as a matter of urgency in presenting the views of the Slovenian National Party. Article 20 provides that the beneficiaries of financial social assistance may be deprived of their financial assistance without any clear criteria, provided that the recipients of financial social assistance are permanently or temporarily registered at the same address as those with their own means of subsistence. Even though it's not the same household, it's important. This provision is contrary, at least after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, to the existing law on marriage and family relations, which lays down the conditions and also the duty to survive, but is also contrary to the applicable law on income, which is finally recognised by the Finance Minister in response to my question. Employment plan. Humanitarian work or voluntary work cannot be the subject of an employment plan, as long as we follow the objective of the employment plan. It is true, however, that voluntary work and any voluntary work should be treated as a humanitarian work, some kind of humanitarian work should be underestimated, and in this regard should also be taken into account in employment, as it is not least an important experience, the practical experience gained by such a volunteer. This is what the government in this reform forgets, and it is an important matter. In view of the burden of the municipalities under the legal obligations they have in connection with family assistants, a new solution is proposed, which will otherwise burden the municipalities, and at the same time will burden the beneficiaries of family assistants as well as the debtors. An allowance for foreign care and assistance or an allowance for assistance and service is made after a new appointment not to the beneficiary, but to the congregation, which may even mean that in the case of disabled children, the parents, I will say in quotations, "reward" the municipalities for having children at home and taking care of them in the absence of inclusion in institutional protection, which is undoubtedly an essential holding. A family assistant's institute has spread to the elderly at the expense of disabled children, and that's not good. Another issue in the context of the amendment was adopted in second reading and is no longer possible to be amended under the third reading. In the context of social protection, students of theological faculty are granted a degree, and I hope to argue, given the activities and aspirations of the existing government, even the superior position over the primary professions in the field of social protection. At the second reading of the amendment, we tabled an amendment in the Slovenian National Party, which unfortunately did not receive the necessary support. An amendment that opposed a government solution that allowed university graduates to be employed as autonomous professionals in the field of social security services, even through a professional examination in this field. In Slovenia we have different faculties, specialized courses of study which educate experts in individual fields. Sociology also knows a number of areas, because we have already heard catastrophic explanations about social attitudes on the basis of the second reading. There is no doubt that the primary staff, which has been intensively educated in the field of social protection in the Faculty of Social Work for four years, are social workers or university-graduate social workers. The university's program of theology with all directions is different, black and white, it's different. However, the status of a professional worker is important because it can, as a professional worker, be promoted and has the opportunity to become a director of a social security institution. Our amendment was also approved in the opinion of the Social Chamber, which is the umbrella organisation in the field of social protection, and there is no risk of social protection being diverted from the vine, so that it will be easier to move under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Church. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Once again, we feel that social reforms in such a form and through such a way of adopting are unfair, however, the words of Minister Drobnik and also of the coalition Members should seem so great. You know, there are large numbers, those numbers of financial resources or so-called wage policies at the expense of government members, supervisory councils and administrations of Slovenian companies, and those who have your mouth full of quasi-social justice do not want to talk about in this House. These are double criteria. Double criteria, which are primarily at the expense of socially disadvantaged people. At the same time, Minister Drobnic abolishes the rights of the unemployed, the right to transport to work, the right to lunch, the abolition of retirement, of course, these are proposals under the second law, which also, according to my assessment, is part of social reforms. These changes go a long way without social dialogue and final agreement. As has already been said, we will not support the amendment of the Social Protection Act in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. When we evaluate this law on social protection, we recall the reasons why the drafter went after it and what its objectives were. The reasons were that some cumulative ratings were exaggerated, that a number of abuses could also be observed, and that there was a lot of nonsense, particularly with regard to the DSP and the family assistant. In fact, the employment activities of one part of those without jobs were not enough. And, of course, there were also reasons for the Constitutional Court's decision, which was such that it gave right to the Members who had tabled a proposal to change social protection, and not to the Ministry which had defied this proposal. The goals, as the Ministry has written, were, in particular, somewhat accounting if we look at the first objective. It says that this is mainly the case - this was the first objective set by the proposer to rationalise budgetary expenditure, which is nothing bad, but it is somewhat unusual if this is the first objective in the area of social protection. This ministry must take primary care of certain other objectives and of certain other interests and tasks. The other of such goals, which will be partly assessed as being also successful in realisation, is the prevention of abuse. The third is the elimination of some nonsense when individuals have been rewarded even with double benefits, when it is not necessary, we have in mind the DSP. The aim is to increase employment activities, which I hope will also be achieved. And, of course, one of the objectives is to eliminate the nonsense committed by the National Assembly years ago by accepting those determined in relation to the family assistant. As for the family assistant, it seems that the applicant was running a marathon, and financial damage was also caused to individual municipalities. This persistence, this marathon doping, has slowed down. The Ministry, unfortunately not on the basis of negotiations and arguments, has come to realize, however, that it is not right, as it has been judged, but unfortunately for the reason that this must have been mentioned by the Constitutional Court and the decision we are talking about. The decision specifically gave Members or a proposal for a Member's Law. The decision stated that the afront to rejecting the Ministry was inappropriate, and the decision showed some other weaknesses that the Ministry or the contractor had now partially listened to. However, with a one-year delay, almost a one-year delay, the shadow is due to the fact that the state of new tasks assigned to the congregation is still not entirely financed, but only partly, and because the municipalities still do not co-decision as required by the Constitutional Court’s decision. They can express their views, but giving an opinion does not mean deciding. Well, the ministry's letting go, but not enough. We think the marriage is better now, but it's not good. What appears to be commendable in this law is, however, a whole range of other good solutions, such as the real rationalisation of budgetary expenditure and the elimination of some nonsense, as well as abuses in the area of proof of the separation of life. And perhaps we could set an example in the citizenship law, which otherwise regulates it, based on facts rather than paper evidence. The attempt to increase the interest in employment is, of course, absolutely supported, because in many environments it is no longer such that unemployment is the main problem, but the main problem is how to get workers for new programmes for new investments, because they simply disappeared due to some excessive social ratings. However, I can fully say that there is a whole range of good solutions in the law, that there is some weakness left, that there is also a shadow of non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision in its entirety, and that, while we are in the DeSUS Group with the support of an amendment that speaks of a suitable work, we will also support the law, but we will not applaud it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have talked about the law in this House many times, but I think there are some things that need to be stressed. The existing law was fully enforced on 1.1.2003 when a full amount of financial social assistance of 46,281 tolars was established. The reason for amending the existing law is certainly to look for the disadvantages of the current system of monetary social assistance. The main ones are: first, monetary social assistance in some areas does not work effectively enough; secondly, in the process of granting monetary social assistance it is difficult to verify certain circumstances; thirdly, monetary social assistance has become an instrument for bridging material risks while waiting for decisions on other rights, which is not its basic purpose. Extraordinary financial social assistance shall not always be used in accordance with its purpose. However, the reasons for changing the law should also be considered in these cases. In addition, the use of income or property, the large increase of beneficiaries, from 62,000 in 2002 to 90,000 in 2004, which means a 45% increase; the use of budget resources increased from 18 billion in 2002 to 32.8 billion in 2004, an increase of 82%; of all beneficiaries, as much as 30% of long-term recipients, which is certainly not a good indicator; and the beneficiaries of cash social assistance are becoming inflexible in active employment policies. However, a particular problem is the fact that 43% of recipients of financial social assistance are younger than 27 and 110 of them are long-term recipients. The new proposal for changes in the area of monetary social assistance brings a novelty in which families and individuals are not eligible for savings or assets that exceed 60 basic amounts of minimum income. As assets, no account shall be taken of a passenger vehicle up to 35 basic amounts of minimum income. For persons who are foreigners who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, maintenance is also considered to be their own income. In the case of joint care and child rearing, the minimum income for the child shall be set at half the amount. The Centre for Social Work decides to reduce the aid by 30% if the recipient lives with persons with sufficient own resources. Any exceptional cash assistance shall be spent by the recipient for a specified purpose and accompanied by evidence within 15 days. In the event that he does not do so, he is not entitled to financial social assistance for 18 months. The employer shall receive a subsidy if he employs a long-term unemployed person for at least one year. The unemployed person who is assigned to work from the institution is obliged to work 8 hours a week and not more than 56 hours a month, in case of refusal losing social assistance for a period of 6 months. Unjustified social assistance must be returned within 30 days at the latest. These are all measures that ensure a certain order in this area and are acceptable. Family assistant, this is a topic that is still not covered by the 2004 law. At that time, the assessment of the use of this option was highly undervalued, as data on 31.5.2005 show almost once more requests and are submitted over thousands. Of course, such a situation called for intervention, especially since family helpers in some congregations nearly broke the congregation’s budget. The arrangements between the congregation and the ministry were firm and long-lasting, and the law after one year of coordination was discussed today in the National Assembly. The new proposal transfers the amount of aid and services received by the disabled person to the municipality. The disabled person and the survivors shall co-finance the family assistant to their payment capacity, and any difference shall be added to the municipalities which may book the property right to real estate. The condition for the status of a family assistant shall be that the unemployed person or person who leaves the labour market or in a working relationship with a shorter working time or an entrepreneur who ceases to operate. The approval shall be issued by the Regional Unit of the Employment Service. The selection shall be decided by the competent centre for social work on the basis of the opinion of the SPIZ disability committees. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the law follows its purpose and solves the cancer wound of municipalities, which is a family assistant, so we will also support the proposed law. And with regard to the amendments below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u12	Good day to you all. During the month of May, half a year from when we faced the first hearing of the law, we supported it in the majority group because we said that it had a number of rational solutions - well, this is also a decision of the Constitutional Court - that it also has many holes and we wanted this shooting in further consideration, that is to say to this third act, to correct, improve or influence decisions. Today, when we are in the third reading, I can only reiterate that we do not fully agree with the law that such an important law cannot be adopted and regulated without the support of the social partner and partners, and that we still have very important comments and that it is not right that we are still not facing the proven and also the real financial consequences, as was the case when the law was first introduced or failed. Well, let's see if the solutions are better now. This is said to be an open question six months later, among other things, about when the unemployed are entitled to money aid, and we, as Social Democrats, have appropriate proposals for corrections for our thinking. The amendment of this part of the law stems from the assumption that recipients of financial social assistance speculate. And abuse, speculation is then an excuse for the ministry, or for the proposer, for additional or some restrictions, so we see. However, the control of intentional spending is now ensured by the law in force, as well as the condition of aid by seeking employment and regulating other living conditions. But well, the government has made a different decision. We are not opposed to those solutions that allow better control over the payment of social transfers, such as the solution that the recipient of emergency social assistance, within 15 days of receiving the social work centre, will provide proof of intended consumption, otherwise lose this right to exceptional financial social assistance for 18 months after receiving it. Of course, it is not clear what this means, how this is proved, but still. The proposal for a solution to the recovery of aid paid as a substitute form for waiting time for a second-right solution, as far as the unemployed person was concerned, in the wrong way, is correct. But the issue remains the solution by which the job seeker should accept any, any work regardless of the type and level of education. Therefore, it is extremely unacceptable that any employment that the beneficiary must accept when offered to him is the right solution and our correction or correction of the Social Democrats is slightly different, explaining which job the recipient must accept. In our case, it is the appropriate employment that corresponds to the classification of the job up to one level of the lower tariff class. This is an important supplement, as we know that if someone refuses to work properly, the next 6 months are not eligible for financial social assistance. Moreover, if you support one or the other solution, it would be easier and more transparent to decide for yourself which will be involved in this process. The removal of financial support as punishment for refusing any work offered is very dangerous. For I suppose that someone who doesn't have enough experience that doesn't have enough knowledge, that doesn't have enough knowledge, that education, that power, that he has to take the job, and if he does that, for example, he could harm himself and others. In short, with the amendment - and this will be further discussed - we are more precisely determining the job to be taken by the job seeker. Here I warn, and once again I return to the examples of those countries that have been able to do so more flexibly. Thus, in Sweden, the payment of refunds or aid shall be suspended for 40 days if they do not accept the appropriate employment - I stress accordingly. After the first refusal, this decrease by 25%, after the second refusal by 50%, and after the third refusal, it is only to suspend the receipt of compensation from the aid. Similarly, in Finland, compensation or aid shall not be paid to a person for 60 days if he refuses employment for no real reason. This is said to be more flexible and not so executive. The fact that an unemployed person can refuse to work on the grounds of conscientious objection is also a meaningful solution. And the proposal, which is a day as an amendment - I hope you will support it, because otherwise I don't know how a pacifist would use it in a job where he should stick his rifles. Well, go ahead. Today, the issue of employment and the integration of theologians into the circle of professional workers or social workers was already open and also in the entire debate of this law. These are the holes or gunshots of the law that I was talking about at the beginning and that are unacceptable to us, we have, after all, warned of them. This is a question that the social partners have raised very bravely and sharply when they have identified the integration of theologians as an ideological solution. While we have stressed that we do not have problems involving university graduates in social protection work. In principle, this issue is not problematic if - if it is not a general trend, whose institution is undoubtedly the present authority, which opens the door wide to entry primarily the Roman Catholic Church into various legislative, I stress, legislative acts. But not only in the acts, including in the various calls and also in the decisions on the distribution of financial support. Well, these things are going to get their exams sooner or later. Well, I am not talking about awarding concessions to social security providers, which we have also presented with the case of Karitas, the Key and so on. Then there is the decision of the Constitutional Court whereby the institution of a family assistant must be regulated and brought into line with the Constitution. This reopens some issues that are relevant. We wanted to close them when we introduced a law whereby a family helper was to be fully financed by the state or the institution of a family helper. Well, this will has not been heard, our proposal has not been accepted. We are now facing other solutions, but they are not addressing certain issues. There has been enough talk, inconsistentness, but these will probably prove to be after the marriage you will, of course, enter into force. Let me add one last comment, which was also discussed, namely that under the current Social Protection Act, a professional council has been set up to adopt policies and also to give initiatives and opinions on social protection development guidelines. And according to the draft law we have, opinions, opinions on social protection services and programmes are also added to the tasks of the expert council. And once again, I see that it is undoubtedly a matter of disciplining the social council, which, in the recent period, said to have given too much, in the notes, "bad opinions" which is why the Minister should confirm the concessions despite their negative assessment. Further, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of the Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! We have proposed that the Social Democrats should hold a general debate on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act. Why is that a suggestion? At a time when we are talking a lot about the Lisbon strategy, when our thoughts are focused on a number of reforms, when we are constantly talking about economic efficiency and the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, social security and social justice are fundamental values for the Social Democrats, from which we do not want to deviate. The proposed law brings some of the solutions that we can agree with the Social Democrats, and it is certain that the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is already one of those supported by the Social Democrats. In addition, there are some such solutions that we cannot agree with. Therefore, we considered the general treatment as an opportunity in which we made our proposals, and we expected the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to take our proposals into account. We have also linked our support or non-support to this. And where are we at the threshold of the third consideration of this law? For some proposals, it can be found that they have stumbled upon fertile soils and that some solutions are popular, but for many things it is not possible to find out. And the Social Democrats are still considered not to be in line with the social partners. The Social Protection Act should also be seen in the context of the National Social Protection Programme adopted from 2006 to 2010, and there was a lot to be said, particularly with regard to the financing and execution of concessional work at that time, and it could be repeated in this law. This law should also be dealt with in the context of the law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. Most of all, we discussed at least two of the main topics of this law. In the introduction to the law, the applicant announced the basic objective of the law, namely to improve the existing situation in the allocation of monetary social assistance and rationalisation of budgetary expenditure in the allocation of funds, which should be achieved by introducing more efficient and fairer award criteria, by promoting greater work activity, by rational consumption, by other incomes, and by working in the course of receiving financial social assistance and by monitoring the use of resources. In particular, the latter should include and make greater use of what has been brought about by the central database managed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The second objective, according to the proposaler, is to improve the existing situation and rationalise financial expenditure in regulating the right to choose a family assistant. The failure to comply with the proposed law, which was withdrawn by the promise that the Social Protection Act would regulate this area, has been somewhat blurred by the fact that the applicant has stated that the solution set out in this law is only a transitional form to the system-wide regulation of this area in a specific law, that is, the long-term supply law that is to be obtained in accordance with practice in some other European countries. It is precisely the debate on the proposal of this law that raises the question of whether these three laws should be dealt with at the same time. The two objectives are also intended for the main part of the introductory part of the law. It is only by showing the financial consequences of the law that other changes are being made. Thus, higher expenditure is foreseen for services of full-day institutional protection within the public service network, for which funds must be provided by the health insurance institution, which is around 110 million. The expansion of the capacity of full-day institutional protection will also increase the expenditure of municipalities for 30 million Slovenian tolls intended for those beneficiaries who do not have sufficient own resources. Here the question arises what the local community has to say about this proposed solution. I'm thinking about all sorts of local communities. And that's what I'm going to talk about later. In addition, the law extends the range of those who are considered professionally qualified to perform social protection works, although it does not specifically mention this in the introductory part, and that is what the comments and amendments tabled by the Social Democrats were intended to do, and unfortunately not to be adopted. The proposer predicts that the overall financial impact will be positive for the budget, i.e. for public funding. We ask Social Democrats whether the proposed changes will guarantee at least equal social security, if not better, given that social security is the most important component of the social state for us. It is difficult to accept the conclusion that savings will be sufficient to cover all the other expenditure incurred by the proposed changes without asking what this means for the level of social security of the most vulnerable groups. This is particularly true in the case of financial social assistance, which is the last form of assistance in the money support network, which should enable a person or family to survive at a time when it cannot provide a minimum income for survival. It points out that the arrangements we have so far have been limited to three months at the time of the first allocation, that they can be re-allocated for six months in unaltered circumstances, no matter what, but can be allocated for a maximum of one year, except for a longer period of time, if no improvement can be expected due to age, disability, illness or other circumstances. Of course, we support the direction of greater activation of the unemployed. What's more, we even demand and expect it! However, we do not agree to a direction that is more focused on sanctioning abuses that become a criterion for introducing new solutions than on planning activation measures. That is why we have specifically examined what changes to the Social Protection Act have brought about in comparison with the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment. In this regard, we have tabled and re tabled amendments. It seems unacceptable to us that sanctions in this law are stricter than in the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. And now for some specific comments. The first concerns the opinion of the Social Democrats that there is no need to transfer the power to decide on the right of a family assistant to a disabled committee, since the social component of the problem must be taken into account in the case of a family assistant. A solution would also be acceptable if, in determining the right of a family assistant, the disability commission would be strengthened by representatives of the social work centre or local communities, given that this form was introduced also due to some problems faced by long-term unemployed persons. And now that I welcome the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, at the same time I appeal to him, because he was the one who proposed a round of extending this assistance. The second point is related to the granting of monetary social assistance. We insist that the obligation to adopt appropriate work should be defined in the same way for recipients of financial social assistance and recipients of monetary compensation. It is unacceptable, therefore, that the recipient of financial social assistance can be forced into any kind of work regardless of his education and qualifications. 36.b Article 36b states that the recipient of a cash refund which is not a beneficiary of a cash benefit in the event of unemployment is obliged to accept any employment at the time of receipt of the financial social assistance; and, subsequently, appropriate work under a contract of employment or a contract of employment, and, after three months of receiving financial social assistance, appropriate temporary or occasional humanitarian or other similar work to which the institution of the Republic of Slovenia sends it for employment, where humanitarian work may also be free of charge. Such a recipient of social power would be shown by the fact that he is doing free humanitarian work, but it would suggest that we consider whether we would not adopt an amendment proposing that there should be a way to stimulate the provider of this service to carry out free humanitarian work. The third point concerns the circle of those who are able to work in the field of social protection. These, in turn, include graduate theologians. This is particularly because we believe that there is insufficient professional justification for whether the programme by which theologians are educated and given some basic behaviours and knowledge in the family field is sufficient for them to be able to carry out quality work, especially because the national social protection programme in the award of concessions and the possibility for those who will be able to perform these works is very broad, while the conditions for the award of concessions and standards are no longer strictly prescribed as they have been prescribed so far. The comment is neither ideological nor of value judgment on the quality of the theological study, but we are talking about appropriate professional competence for the activities we are talking about. Fourth point. It was true that it was possible to hear that local communities agreed to 0.35% of the share in the financing of the family assistant, but we do know that it was those municipalities that were most burdened with this funding that felt that this limit should not be different from 0.25%. Let me get this. Social Democrats have nothing to do with good control over the allocation of various forms of social assistance, but we distinguish between accessibility and control, and this should not be narrowed down and made difficult in a way that affects the most vulnerable groups of the population. We are in favour of speeding up the integration of the unemployed into the labour market, but we believe that the measures allowing this are insufficient and that not all opportunities for integration into the labour market have been exploited, particularly in younger people and in those with more permanent unemployment. The social democrats, because of these two comments and also because of the non-conformity of the law with the social partners of the social protection law, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Capuder on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister with the team, who has chosen today so much courage to come to our Parliament. Messengers and Members! Amendments to the Social Protection Act solve a number of very important issues that have proved inadequate or ineffective or could be better implemented during the implementation of the law. Therefore, it is high time that the anomalies present in this law be removed as soon as possible. One such and important solution is the right to a family assistant who has proved to be very good in practice. It is especially pleasant and good for caregivers who can continue to live in their home environment, which often works healingly on such caregivers in itself. Regrettably, however, the number of family assistants has been assessed when this right to underestimation has been introduced and, above all, the inequality in the use of this right by individual municipalities. While the State provided additional funds at the time of the introduction of the family helper to some extent over an appropriate amount of consumption, some congregations were more burdened than others because of the large number of family helpers. The municipality's arguments regarding the increased burden of funding a family assistant in individual municipalities had already been heard by the government in the preparation of the 2005 budget rebalancing proposal and had thus increased the appropriate consumption of municipalities over the percentage of the cost of living, which was the criterion for the preparation of budgets for 2006 and 2007. Thus, appropriate consumption was increased by an additional 7.5% in 2006 and by an additional 2.4% in 2007. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the solution, as proposed by the government, is not ideal, but is good and is particularly consistent with the representatives of the municipalities. The solution largely solves the problems faced by some of the most exposed municipalities and also solves the requirement of a Constitutional Court decision. The second point I would like to draw attention to in the presentation of the position of the Group of Members is that of monetary social assistance. Amendments to this Act on Social Protection should also encourage recipients of monetary social assistance to increase their involvement in the work process in such a way that everyone is obliged to adopt a job that is not solely linked to his level of education or to accept works carried out prior to the occurrence of unemployment. At the same time, the amendment also lays the groundwork for the preparation of active employment policy programmes aimed at recipients of financial social assistance, in particular for the following purposes: that recipients of monetary social assistance maintain working habits and contacts with the environment; that they acquire working experience that may be useful for later possible employment or for the conclusion of a working relationship in similar works and tasks; that recipients of financial social assistance raise their social inclusion rate in society and contribute to the general and personal benefit of their personal activities. In the event of the refusal or termination of the performance of the job offered or of temporary humanitarian or other similar work, the work under the contract or the contract of sale of the works shall lose the right to financial social assistance and shall not be justified for a certain period of time. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the recipient of money social assistance is the person who is on the verge of survival or would not have asked for money social assistance. And the job of the state is to help these people. That's the first assignment. And it is the individual's task to take the highest level of responsibility to address the situation he is in, especially if he is able to work. We are therefore convinced that such a person is obliged to accept any employment for which he or she is psychophysically capable and that, in the employment plan, he or she is capable of performing it, whether it be humanitarian work, whether it be charity work or temporary work. Since an individual has found himself in a situation where he needs help through the allocation of financial social assistance, but at the same time he must also be assisted in employment, we believe that there are no grounds for rejecting any type of employment, as he will improve his material position by accepting the job offered, while at the same time allowing him to acquire employment habits, experience and social inclusion. The current regime allows for an excessive degree of passiveness of recipients of monetary social assistance, and the works of the able recipients are in the system of monetary social assistance even after a few years, which is also not acceptable and, in particular, I think, is not good for them. At the same time, this situation is caused by misunderstandings among all those employees who make every day a special effort to survive themselves and their families with their hands, their closest, often even for the minimum wage they have to pay from month to month. I wonder where social justice is, then, that money is devoted to those who are often unwilling to work, even though they are able to do so. It is these citizens and citizens who are employees on minimum wages who expect from the national assembly that they expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to regulate the situation and avoid the misuse of financial social assistance. According to data, there were an average of 62,000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance in 2002, which increased to as many as 90,000 in 2004. In 2002, 18 billion Slovenian tolars were paid for this aid, and in 2004 almost 33 billion Slovenian tolars were paid. And what we all have to worry about is that there are many young people among the recipients of financial social assistance. And young people are supposed to be able to work. These data also show that beneficiaries of monetary social assistance are becoming increasingly dependent on them by extending the aid. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the beneficiaries of money social assistance are often offered a suitable job, although this is only an informal job or a fixed-term job. However, they do not accept the work offered because it is worth more to be a recipient of financial social assistance than to have a daily obligation to work. The addition to Article 23, which was adopted on the home body, prevents or reduces the possibility of bullying recipients of financial social assistance. This has been discussed extensively both in the home committee and in the national assembly. We believe that such cases exist, and I am sure that we all know that this is unacceptable. The solution, as proposed in Article 23, is good in the view of the New Slovenia Group and will be supported as well. For this reason, he also added to the 23rd article tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the Club of the Liberal Democracy for the third reading, and we will not support it in our Group of Members. Of course, New Slovenia fully supports amendments to the Social Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State and Mr Kociper, colleagues and colleagues, Vice-President of the National Assembly! My full debate on the law will focus on the proposals that we have put forward in the Group of Social Democrats to supplement the law. We are convinced that it is from the content of the adoption or does not accept these additions to the law, as the colleague of mag said. Majda Potrat, depending on our willingness to support the law. Our comments, suggestions, amendments are in fact exactly the same content as they were in the second reading. And we regret that no progress has been made between the second and third readings in understanding not only the well-intention that no one has been able to tell us, but also the understanding and necessity of the proposed amendments. The first, as you know, concerns the issue of the condition of employment, a condition which has an effect if it is not met that the beneficiary loses the right to social benefits. We are convinced that our proposal, which compares this condition with the law on employment and unemployment insurance, is appropriate, irrespective of the fact that there are two different laws. Set the condition that you get the right to social assistance, that you have to accept any employment without any restriction, even if it is a young person, even if it is the one who is looking for employment for the first time, but he has found himself, given the social situation of himself and his family, in a situation where he does not get a job, nor can he survive himself that he must accept anything. We have written in our explanation also works that are honorable. I agree, every job is honorable, but it does not stimulate the possibility of employment. And we don't understand where the big word comes from, but sometimes the appropriate actions, but the other is less, the Minister and the Ministry, how we want to create conditions for the early inclusion in the work, are in line with such definitions. However, these are not fast conditions for inclusion in the work, unless we expect that the work is really anything, but not what someone has been or is similar to what someone has been learning, what they have been investing in and, after all, what the State has invested its resources to achieve appropriate education. This is the easiest way to overcome the complete responsibility of the individual who is in distress and cannot solve his problem, rather than being taken over by the state as part of that responsibility. In such a way as to seek and offer adequate employment, which would be at least, if not already appropriate, within the meaning of fully equivalent education and the conditions it fulfils, but at least one level lower. If this solution were to be accepted, it would also stimulate employment institutions, the country, to keep looking for appropriate employment. If not, then as many months as he has the right to receive social support, then it will be said, God help, the conditions under the law are no longer fulfilled, he does not have that right. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition and representatives of the Ministry! Think again about finding out that this is really the worst possible solution for people to be good for the country. I don't think that's the right formula. Good for the country can only be what is acceptable and good for people. That's not it. And second. When we spoke and colleague Majda Potrat mentioned, she will certainly also talk more about the amendments herself, when we suggested in the second reading that in cases where any work must be undertaken, or in cases where free humanitarian work and similar work are also being accepted, we should only provide some stimulus to the fact that he would not be denied the right he otherwise has. At that time, the minister, we can go see the magnetograms, he was very fond of such possibilities, and he said yes, and then we will really think about it and make a proposal. I'm sorry, I hope he hasn't forgotten, I hope it wasn't just a friendly gesture in direct confrontation, but that he's seriously considering it. There's still time to think about it. Whether our solution is as written is only possible, is not, can be any different, simply rejecting it means being unprepared and also means that the Minister will, to say the least, eat his word, which he gave in second reading, in order to be willing to find a solution in this direction. They may seem small things, but they are small for us, very, very important for the individual who finds himself in such a situation and should think about it in particular. Finally, something that has absolutely no direct connection to the law has to do with this country's attitude towards social transfers. Two days ago, on the Ministry of Finance's website, I think we found a new law on the coordination of social transfers prepared by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever you're saying, how you want to help, it's the law that counts. In two years, 7 and a half billion tolars will fall less and social transfers will actually fall each year, as you only recognize oral coordination for all and know only coordination with the anticipated growth of living needs, real social transfers in a few years will be if, I hope, what you promise, and what we also want to do to help the overall state of affairs a little more active work and a real wage increase. For example, Mr. Prime Minister told us in his responses that there would be a real increase around [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Inflation or an increased cost of living of 2.5%, it is said that 2.5% will reduce the real value of social transfers each year, and in a few years this will become an unacceptable means that will no longer be able to cover this. [[..]] But, you know, Ministry gentlemen, do you agree with what you're going to say about this? This will be based on the information that we have, the proposal that this State Assembly should take on a rapid procedure, because it is issues that, I don't know, are probably a fundamental disaster, but important for the country. How are you going to justify this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u19	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u20	Your Honor! I believe that Slovenians and Slovenians are a decent and working nation, and that the majority of those who are unemployed and receive financial social assistance or financial compensation are happy to seize every opportunity or opportunity to work. Each work shall be appropriate if it is determined in the employment plan that a person is able to perform it. The proposed amendments have already been discussed in a lively manner in the home working body as well as at a meeting of the National Assembly. I feel that some do not want to leave the previous system at all and still want to live in a world of privileges that are not, above all, good. The current regime allows for an excessive degree of passiveness of recipients of monetary social assistance, and works are capable of recipients in the cash social assistance system for several years, which I do not think is good or unacceptable. The social rights system is therefore wrongly set up. Instead of promoting activity, work, creativity and decency, there is a feeling that, above all, the accumulation of social rights is often attributable to the practice of depriving them of the many benefits offered by the current regime. The task of the State is to help the person on the verge of survival, and the task of the individual is to approach the solution to the situation in question, especially if he is able to work. Therefore, there are only certain reasons for rejecting each type of employment: health problems, disability, as the admission of the job offered will improve the individual's material position and enable him to acquire work habits, experience and social inclusion. It must be made clear and clear that the right to financial social assistance is not abolished, but is decided on the basis of the income available and in accordance with the provisions in force. There is no money social assistance and there cannot be a reward for doing work, as there are other mechanisms for doing so. Let me repeat the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Persons who are psychophysically capable of work are, like other citizens, obliged to do the work they are offered. In all the debates on the proposed law, it is possible to confirm with certainty that the changes to the law are good and positive, so I will not support the proposed amendments because they do not follow the objective of the bill. But I'd be happy to support the law. I believe that in time we will be able to receive information on any positive changes that will be visible through the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u21	Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I think that the proposal of the law that is before us today is a time for the government to address these problems for a simple reason, as I have already said in the introduction myself. See, the increase in beneficiaries from 62,000 in 2002 to 90,000 in 2004, says a 45% increase in such recipients of social assistance and I also have data for 2005. In 2005, the average number of financial social assistance is 60,000 and by the end of September 2006 59,271, which means that we had reached last year's number within 9 months. This means, at least in my opinion, that the exploitation of this institute is too much, especially when we face data on the other hand, that 45% of the young people who receive it, and on the other hand again, that we are looking for labour abroad and more and more job seekers are coming to Slovenia. I'm listening on the radio to how big the shortage of drivers is. I think it's such a profession that anyone can do, but if it's too little interest and it's easier to walk around and collect signatures, if someone doesn't want to take me, but I still get money social assistance, than if I try to stop being the burden of a wider and narrower community, then I think something is wrong and the government is making the right moves and wants to make the order here. However, I argue that no rights are taken or reduced. Let us take a look at the example of pensions, see how we adopted legislation regarding young mothers, with disabled people. Nothing is overturned, but there is a desire to make order, transparency and a situation where, in fact, those who are needed, I agree, and the government has also made such a proposal that leads to those who are truly eligible and in extreme need to be able to receive this financial social assistance. Of course, they must do their best. I think that it is the task of every unemployed individual to seek work intensively and to make every effort to achieve this goal. However, the task of the State is to ensure conditions and jobs, and only in the extreme case of helping those who, despite intensive efforts, have failed to find jobs. I am sure that in such a situation, it is not a question of what to do and how to work, but only that it is done. That it is not a burden on the family and society that it is among people to make contacts, new friendships, new sciences, which is certainly a great capital to gain the proper work of his education and abilities. The situation that someone is waiting at home for cash assistance work seems to me to be very problematic, as it comes down to depression, which is very harmful for them and for society, for relatives and for loved ones. I myself feel that a healthy person with normal psychophysical properties is obliged to accept any work for reasons that I have already counted. To confirm this, I would like to remind you of the surveys that were also made on the Nationalist, where people were asked about this issue. I was surprised that almost most replied that she was ready to accept every job. I submit that the existing system allows a lot of passiveity to the job seeker. The evidence is in the numbers I already mentioned in the introduction. In view of all this, I think that the proposal presented to us by the Ministry, which is before us today, is appropriate and that the amendments we have received by the opposition are leading or amending the law in this sense in order to actually miss the basic purpose that we are discussing today in these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u23	Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! The law is good. Minister Drobnič is the first minister to hope to kick himself into this pile-up order called social benefits, social protection. He is the first minister to hope to say that social assistance belongs to people who do not get work, who cannot, who are sick, old, immobile, not those who deliberately refuse work or who do not like to work. We have not abolished any social rights so far in this mandate, nor will we. We are the first to care for pensioners, young women, pregnant women in employment, older people, risk groups. All of this has been stimulated in the last two years. He's also the first minister to act against abuse. Everyone you ever performed mentioned that you had nothing to do with abuse, speculation, so you know they exist. But you didn't do anything to reduce the abuse, but you did it from year to year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u25	Peace, please. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u26	increases the number of social recipients of 90,000 people in Slovenia receiving social assistance. [[..]] On the other hand, we import 43,000 workers from abroad because we do not have Slovenian people working in Slovenia. Many entrepreneurs and auto-transporters and humanitarian organisations are coming to give more permits to foreigners for God's sake. Why? Don't we have Slovenians to work with? According to the public media, the revolution has declared that it needs workers and imports them from Bosnia, from the former Yugoslavia, from everywhere, because obviously we do not have the labour force in Slovenia, despite the large number of unemployed. Is it not the rejection of a demeaning work to all those workers who work in factories for machines for the poor 100 thousand tolars? That's humiliating. How can we stimulate humanitarian work? By telling them that it is a noble act to care for an old man for a week, even if it is your father, a sick child, or a neighbor, and if you receive social benefits. It's stimulation. But not just saying that certain works are not humanitarian, but they do not arouse self-confidence to weaken self-images, etc. The job is given to employers by various humanitarian organisations, etc. And they are not likely to accept everyone if they see that they are not suitable for a particular job. Let us not make illusions that everyone will accept it if he sees on his face that he is not up to it. As for the family assistant, I think it's well arranged. Let's just say this care and care for a sick person. This belongs to a person, and it is not true that parents of disabled children will lose this help if their parents do the work. But you can't take it from the state and leave the job to someone else. This belongs to a man who is immobile, who is sick, unable to work, but not to someone who is healthy, who would not do this work. And I think that's a good solution. We are making order all over the world, from Darfur, Iraq, I think we have a lot to do in this area also in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u27	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u28	Dear Slovenians, distinguished Slovenians! It is important that we highlight what we think about ourselves, what you say, what Slovenians are like, and what Slovenians are like. We live, as we hear today, in a country that has ensured a field of privileges and privileges are drawn from the past. We live in a country where support is not good - I quote you - and we live in a country where social rights accumulate and where social rights are too much. You report this to this marriage, and it's important that you know what the Minister is telling you that he's supposed to be taking care of you. You report that it doesn't matter what someone does, just to do it. It is important that a graduate chemist can work as a chef or that a chef can work as a graduate chemist. A chemist or chemist can mix compounds, a cook or chef can instead of a chemical mix of tubes. It doesn't matter. It just works. We have too many foreigners because the Slovenians don't want to work instead of us, I say we, members of the former republics, say Bosnia because the Slovenians don't want to work. Why would those who don't want to work support them? Why waste them? We hear Minister Drobnič is the first minister to hope to kick in social privileges. I'm afraid the primate's gonna get himself kicked.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u29	Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. When I listened to the words in the opening presentation, I said the big words of some representatives of the government coalition, I could say that, I don't know if you're so carefree, you don't have the morals, lead to yourself and to people who are on the social side of survival, or you're actually such naive people and you just read, and you don't even know what you're reading. What the minister or his men put in your hands. I have made it clear and clear why we will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Allow me another flower, which is published in the Saturday annex of Acts of 23 September 2006. It's an interview with Minister Petty Officer. Mrs Tomažič, who is from the very top of the cabinet, as you probably know from Minister Drobnič, is also in the secretariat of the Roman Catholic Church synod along with Mr Ivan Štuhec and Mr Janez Gril. "Does this have an impact," asked the journalist, "on decisions at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where there are many decisions, as you said, related to values?" I now read the question, literally quoting him, a journalist or a journalist. The Minister answers, it has positive effects. The synodal document touches on the civil spheres and roles of the family and children, which is the legal basis for working at the Ministry, the legal basis for working at the Ministry. The document speaks of a society of justice, coexistence and love. Should we give it up? I am glad that they are co-workers or that they also work in NGOs. And we've come up with a formulation of what this minister's tactics mean by a non-governmental organization. You know, the Roman Catholic Church as a whole, I'm sorry, it can't be, and it can't be, and it can't be a non-governmental organization, and it has an impact, and the legal basis for this law that we're adopting today. We've come up with why workers, unemployed people have to take every job, otherwise they lose money, social assistance. Also humanitarian work or voluntary work in NGOs, that is, within the Roman Catholic Church. We have heard, Mr Pojbič said that there can be no monetary social assistance reward for carrying out work obligations. I hope Mr Pojbič knows what monetary social assistance means. I believe that there is actually no man in this loving country who would say that he is proud of receiving 40,000 Slovenian tolars - now I have given a flat amount of monetary social assistance. Days ago, we were able to read in the daily newspaper what a kilo of bread costs, and that the price of bread that should be the basis has increased by more than 300% in recent years. Please! Another person should say that 40,000 Slovenian tolars received by an unemployed person will be the youngest to be an old person who does not get an adequate job, that it is a reward for non-employment. I think that this is a duty of the State, a duty that must be felt by every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who is not guilty of being on the brink of social survival or in social misery if you want. It is also unfortunate what we listen to in this national assembly, from a number of Members coming from government circles that are shaping social policy. That's bullshit, and that's what I hope to say in this place. And, if you'll excuse me, there's something else we've heard. We have heard that this government or this minister has taken care of all categories of people. For pregnant women? Well, don't joke! I hope you remember the consideration of the Parental Protection Act. There women are entitled to the fundamental right, the right to make decisions that they have been given under the old law! How did Minister Petty Officer take care of the pregnant women?Oh, my God! Sick children - the proposal of the new Minister of Health is that the patients be reduced, even for those parents who just have to go to the hospital because they have a sick child at home. In Slovenia we have a case - several cases, but I will mention one in particular - a mother who has a child with an autistic disorder. A mother who has to take care of this child 24 hours a day because the child is so sick and there is no institution in Slovenia to have a program so that experts can deal with this child. Such a mother takes care of her child 24 hours a day, she is unemployed, just because she cares about the child. Minister Drobnic said in many of the debates that we have put forward in this House, that I am not interested in such a problem. And this mother is not even entitled to a dollar of state budget resources, and she would still have earned them. I don't know if that's how Minister Petty Officer takes care of all categories of people, then I'll tell you what kind of country we live in! God help us! That's all we have left.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u31	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Allow me a few thoughts about this marriage, no newspaper articles, and no discussion about the Catholic Church, which is obviously an extremely sweet bone, but I think it can be different, and I hope that I will not cause anyone any gallbladder. From the material prepared by the Ministry in relation to the law, I note that the main objective of the amendments made and the addition of the Social Protection Act are to improve the existing situation in particular towards a more rationalisation of public expenditure, then to better control and achieve greater fairness in the allocation of financial social assistance and to improve control over the use of funds by beneficiaries of exceptional, monetary social assistance. The key changes for recipients of monetary social assistance are, in my view, the following: more effective promotion of unemployed recipients of social assistance for greater work for all who are able to do so. The recipient of the aid is therefore obliged to accept any employment or employment offered to him by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for employment in accordance with the rules on employment, unemployment insurance. The impact of work is multilateral, aid recipients maintain working habits and contacts with the environment, gain work experience that may be useful for later possible normal employment or the conclusion of a working relationship in similar parts and tasks, improve social inclusion in society and can contribute to general social benefits through work. In my opinion, the proposal for a law removes the receipt of cash social assistance after employment, when employment is already concluded and it is understandable that the recipient receives a salary for his work at that time. The law improves control over the use of funds by beneficiaries of exceptional financial social assistance, in particular as regards the adaptation of evidence demonstrating the use of funds. This was, last but not least, the Court of Auditors’ observation that the legal basis was insufficiently established. The system for obtaining control data from beneficiaries to financial social assistance shall also be improved for a longer period of time, which is the basis for an effective exchange of data between public records. The social work centre is allowed by this law not to grant aid or to grant lower aid in cases where they find that the applicant’s social assistance was merely a fictitious application of his own household at the same address as he had already been staying. The law also introduces the return of financial social assistance if they have been paid as a substitute form of assistance for waiting time for a solution on the second right that has been established before financial social assistance, such as a financial compensation for the period of unemployment. Under the current law, then the person would receive aid from two titles. The amendment of the law also amends the single payment subsidy scheme into a monthly payment method that will prevent and limit potential abuses or simplify recovery procedures that may occur if the single payment system continues to exist. Let me conclude my thinking with firm support for the law. In my view, the law encourages work in an appropriate way, and it is high time for this national assembly to also pay back honor. Otherwise, this is not a task that could be accomplished within one or two months, it is certainly a task that we will have to carry out for quite some time. I hope that honor will also return to work, such as construction workers, etc. I still support Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, Slovenia must be and must remain a social state, but according to the principle of fairness and fairness. Since I will not comment later on the amendments, I would like to say here that I will not support them because they do not contribute to the improvement of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u33	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Let me start with some association. I've heard that work has to be restored. I spent most of my life in a system whose password was: "doing honor and power." Now, though, to a law we are not speaking of for the first time, we have not been able to convince ourselves of certain essential things. Social Democrats and themselves have nothing to do with controlling the allocation of social transfers. However, we cannot agree that nothing has been done so far to control the granting of money aid and other social transfers. Everything that is being done in the previous term has been done, which is now being carried out or complemented, so that a little distance to what is often heard here is only with this coalition, with this government starting, but it would only be good for us to keep it. Secondly, what I think, as my general comment on these many debates and debates, is that it would be good if Members and Members were able to keep in their memory everything that we have already accepted at that time, and then compare with what we are accepting at the moment, so that they can actually assess whether these solutions are comparable or all lead to what some claim to be taking. I stand by myself for the protection of vulnerable groups of the population. This is also one of the postulates of the social state and in it a very important value called solidarity. I cannot overlook, however, the fact that the concern of this coalition is aimed at ensuring a better position for those who have more, on the grounds that their creativity will be stimulated and thus provide more and better jobs. Where's the guarantee? He's not here. While I imagine such a responsible capital owner that the surplus invests in creating new jobs, it should be asked whether that is true. Therefore, I am surprised that some in the National Assembly have been constantly thinking only about how to protect employers, how to enable them, exactly frantically, yesterday some statements on what will be 0.6%, or what this would mean for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. But when I link this debate to what my colleague Potrč was talking about, what is predicted is that the starting point for all social transfers in coordination in Slovenia would be inflation, not real growth in living needs, but only now I understand what this is all about. Not only are there 18,000 unemployed or beneficiaries of the minimum wage, but there is a much larger number of beneficiaries. It would be good to answer the question whether we are always focused on ensuring equal access to social transfers in the news that we are accepting. I think that some things have been profoundly changed and we should ask ourselves on behalf of what values. I would like to say something else that I have read in public publications, even though we have been told that we should not refer to it. By the way, in the second reading, even the Minister referred to the fact that the public opinion that could have been read in public opinion was directed at the unemployed, that public opinion was what he considered to be the people who were looking for, how to avoid employment and that it was abuse. A well-known Slovenian sociologist and anthropologist spoke about the cultural capital we have and that development policy should be directed in the spirit of cultural capital, which we carry with us from the experience of the country in which we lived before. We should ask ourselves what these values are. I see solidarity as one of those fundamental values. These are not just the values recognized by the synodal world and that can only be linked to the values of the Catholic Church. The former company also had values to bet on and does not show neglect. In addition, there are some universal values that are not a single group domain. And if I touch on what I mentioned earlier, the attitude towards the unemployed towards the recipients of financial social assistance. I can't just think of these people as part-timers and as those who don't want to join the labour market. I can't. And I think I'd give up the good part of the values that I've been doing my teaching profession for three decades if I believed that. I have been training in a direction that has recently also been possible to find out that it is at the turn of unemployment and that it is difficult for graduates to work in this direction. Should I now just consider these graduates to be part-timers and as people who would like to take from the public mangers without investing in what this country is? That's what people say. It's unacceptable for me to look like that. In fact, I think that much more should be done to enable young people to work in the direction for which they were educated. Those of us who have ever taught know how quickly knowledge is outdated. And are we truly so rich that we will reject all that people have acquired during education? I believe that the fundamental value of knowledge is knowledge. I also believe that one of the characteristics of an educated person is that he can find himself in different situations of life. But at the same time, I don't think it's necessary to agree that what he's got is something he just throws away. And that's why I think it's so important to insist on doing the right job. I am also aware that social work is an extremely important educational factor. But from education to what also gives means to survival, it is still a step. And I would like to see those problems faced by job seekers more tolerant. And they are also tolerant of those who do the work, neither citizens nor citizens, nor people with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. I do not understand that all that the European Union brings to us is not aware of, among other things, the mobility of the labour force, whether we want it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u35	Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We may not have been clear enough, but all those who speak of the fact that the recipients of financial social assistance should be able to take on every job are merely informed that the recipients of financial social assistance will not be the only ones and only those who cannot afford their own livelihood. Are they suitable for that? The law provides for commissions to identify these matters. Everything else is just the use of this institute. The numbers I gave in my presentation speak for themselves. In 2004, 90,000 beneficiaries were used and 33 billion Slovenian tolars were used. And that's a very big increase in two years. Humanitarian work is not just a matter of the Roman Catholic Church. There are many other civil society institutions that also organise humanitarian work and not just stumble upon the Roman Catholic Church. It is true, though, that the Roman Catholic Church, even at the time of the ban on humanitarian work, helped a large number of those in need, but the country did not know or care for them. There is also much talk about the university’s specialists and that they are unfit for professional work or for professional workers. Look, the law has very clearly written down the criteria that must be provided. They must have one-year work experience in the field of social protection, have completed an appropriate specialisation from this and must have a professional examination. And it's an expert exam that determines whether a certain person is suitable for a particular job. In construction, I can't design construction instructions if I don't have a professional exam, and even though I have five degrees, five doctors don't help me. And an expert exam is the last tool you'll ever use to show up in front of society. And all the arguments put forward by some debaters can really only be ideological in nature with some little strange view of the Roman Catholic Church as one of the members of our civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u37	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u38	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! The law brought by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs this time is once again one of those who, of course, exhibits a positive figure on the scale of the trojan horse, but it is, of course, full of such matters that speak the opposite of the basic purpose. But as far as basic purposes are concerned, I would have touched on at least the first, that the purpose of the law is to rationalise budgetary expenditure in the granting of monetary social assistance. This must not be the purpose of the law. The purpose of this ministry, too, must not be that. The aim of this ministry is to improve the social conditions, to strengthen the social state, to help people not to leave them at the mercy and indignation of what the Prime Minister said last time, but now we have a market economy. Things can't be put out-of-the-way like that, of course. The other thing that really bothers me is that this is the reconciliation of all those who are receiving social assistance that they are now receiving. I come from an environment where unemployment is one of the biggest in Slovenia. I'm sure it's the largest in urban environments. These people, of course, do not have the possibility of housing, of earning income from elsewhere, but they can only live on social assistance. And of course, everyone's trying very hard to get to work. Take a look at the migration flows from Zasavje. If people didn't work themselves and look for work, all of these 90 thousand would be multiplied at least three times, four times. That's what we're talking about. If only everyone was waiting. And it is insulting to citizens and citizens to them at a time when they ask for social assistance, when they get it, to be considered half criminals. Don't joke, people. The other thing that bothers. In some parts, this law brings something absurd and paradoxical, which is forced voluntary work. If you don't take the job, you'll be on welfare, you'll be punished, you'll be on your way, and so on. Work can be anything, work can be pressure. Let us not blind ourselves that this law allows this possibility, forced labor, to allow the pressure to go back not only to capitalism of the most cruel type of the 19th century, but even further back. That is why we are opposed to this in the Liberal Democracy. At the first reading, we supported the law, however, because we calculated that with a smart agreement, with smart amendments, we could change the matter into some solid human form. Now, of course, it turned out that these were illusions, that the agreement could not have been that everything had been voted out and that such an inhumane conclusion, we would not have agreed to such inhumane conduct. It's not just about the old, it's not just about the poor, it's about the young. In all ways, they are somehow placed on the social side and the law, which is supposed to bring people into the middle, into life, into life, somehow accompanied by them on the edge, discriminated against and, of course, condemned in advance. Of course, you referred to the opinion of reading different newspapers. You shouldn't have. Mr. Minister himself may know exactly how many of these abuses are or can predict how many of these abuses are in fact, and those abuses need to be eliminated in some way, but not in a way that reduces all of them, that you are totally reducing everyone. We've been talking a lot about this money these past few days. I don't know why there was such affection for the members of the supervisory boards. There, of course, everything is possible, everything is allowed and everything is allowed because it is a market economy. Why it was a completely different idea of guaranteed income, where this will undermine the Slovenian economy, I don't know what it is. Of course, we're back to the same place. Poorer to make poorer, more hopeless, even more obedient. However, those who do not need to, especially some who have dual citizenship or work for two countries, are given everything, either individually in the form of social contributions or simply, by the allocation of works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I would like to give some answers regarding the receipt of social assistance and criteria. It's not just abuse in this system. Actually, it's a misconfigured system, with inadequate criteria. See, in Slovenia the standard is rising, but when we look at the number of recipients of social assistance, we see that they have grown very, very much in the last three years. It is very problematic, in fact, that among these recipients of financial social assistance, which are intended primarily for those who cannot work, who cannot help themselves, are 40% of young people up to 26 years of age. So this system is set up wrong. Social assistance payments increased by 100% in three years, the number of payments. So it's not just abuse, it's a system that's not well thought out and we need to fix it now. Nothing will happen to any socially disadvantaged person entitled to social assistance. We ask ourselves: "What is this solidarity if an individual does not choose to work, because it is his free decision? Apparently, he has other forms of wealth, survival, that he doesn't have to go to work. This is free in our country. However, the taxpayers remind me of why you allow people to receive help if they do not want to choose to work. In Slovenia we have over 40,000 work permits for the work of foreigners, and much for work in seasonal work. We note that recipients of social assistance do not want to respond to seasonal work. They say this status is more favourable for them. From the point of view of the taxpayers, this is a reasonable and necessary decision, and I also reacted as a minister. Social assistance is not being reduced. There's no way they're going down. No, only the criteria are placed in the right place. That's all this is about in this Slovenia. And this was also very welcomed by taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And let's make these changes that don't go towards the poorest, but those who abuse it. That's it. And it's the system that made it possible. This could not be prevented. That's why we're making these changes. So 40,000 work permits, including many who come from abroad and do the work instead of those who receive money or cash aid. We must therefore ask ourselves in Slovenia what social policy we will decide on. That's the whole answer. It is not aimed at reducing aid. However, in these two years, since the government has been active and since I have been a minister, no right has been reduced as such. We have improved the position of pensioners, improved the position of disabled persons, veterans, mothers, parents, all have received additional rights - those who are truly entitled, but none has been reduced. Except perhaps for the goodness where we have seen that it is not being used well as parental help, otherwise not. This government operates with a good sense of social policy, but also for justice. Now we have to ask ourselves, for example, that those who receive, say, 100,000, go every day to work on how he subsidizes then the one who does not choose to work receives social assistance. This is a fundamental issue. This is our question on the basis of citizenship, on the basis of a social contract, some kind of social contract, already based on which we actually live in that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u41	I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be led by the review of the amendments of 26.9.2006. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 23 and four of the amendments of the Group of Social Democrats and the two amendments of the LDS Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. The time to report is running. Here you go, Mr. Boštjan Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I myself will support the amendments to article 23 of the bill. Another - I will say - thing that encouraged me to do so was the current or current implementation of the Minister, when he referred again to analyses. You know, Mr. Minister, ever since we discussed the unemployment insurance law, when you mentioned the analysis, I don't trust your analysis anymore. Remember, in front of this whole hall, you called for them to do it quickly and you had a sample of 700 polled, 30 answered, and I believe everyone from your client. As far as proper work and humanitarian work are concerned. You know, every job, I agree that the RCC is not only a humanitarian work, but it is obvious that this government's proposal is to finance only the humanitarian work carried out by the RCC. But that's how we can understand that it's about returning the favors you owe. Tell me, "Someone who's an atheist, you're going to take his money, because -- because you who are so democratic -- won't want to go to work for the fairies? Nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u43	Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The proposals made at the time of Article 23 are directly linked to the question whether or not we have the right criteria in the law. As the Minister has said, social policy itself is putting itself in the right place, but it does not change any rights and takes nothing from anyone, so we argue that at these two points where we are putting amendments, it does not put itself in the right place. We, too, believe that it is appropriate to define that it must have appropriate criteria, only the criteria for accepting any employment for us. For a young person who is seeking employment for the first time and has an appropriate education, it is not the right criteria. Mr. Secretary, it's not the right criteria for us. You can have it, you can take it most of the time. Just don't tell me that conditions and justice won't change, too. Yes, this law will change and reduce. I'd like to tell you that some of your statements that you might consider to be non-professional or demagogic with some slight malice. I have to comment, look, you say, we have higher standards and more payouts. This has no direct connection and can even be completely logical, not illogical, as you claim. We have an average higher standard, we have more people with higher wages, we will get more when your tax reform is adopted. Only at the same time do we have a significant proportion of people who can no longer live and, of course, have the right to social benefits. Anyone who doesn't want to work can't get help. Mr. Minister, you are, except for work, also for social policy, Minister. Such a statement is not correct because it is not possible for all those receiving social assistance to say that they do not want to work. It's not possible. And I don't think it's right that this way you want to show some kind of policy as ideal. However, the specific question that is the content of this amendment and of concrete solutions is not to say anything, no argument that I would simply reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u45	Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you. The four amendments tabled under Article 23 do not, in fact, bring new demands and new solutions, but only point to the fact that our conviction as to how the recipients of social money aid should also be treated equally with the insurance of those who receive unemployment benefits is solid and that we do not intend to derogate from this. We believe that we should insist on proper employment, not on any kind of employment. I don't know how many times we've justified this, why it's right to insist on what's right, because it's defined. It is not the same, we have defined from the same or appropriate to the appropriate level, which is reduced from the level of education achieved. It is important to know that there is a very diverse range of job seekers and those who need social care within the financial aid recipients. And that's why insisting on it isn't some kind of picanteria or some kind of hairlust, but it's in the interest of people, especially young people. With regard to willingness to work or unwillingness, let me say with another experience from the environment, which has faced great unemployment, "Many of those who have been trained through the Employment Service for what kind of work they have received may again be on the list of unemployed in a very short period of time and are reintegrated into the system of education and training for new jobs." To say that everyone who is in such a situation is insensitive to work, that they do not accept work as values, does not seem appropriate to those who, by the constitution and by the position they have, are being cared for by all citizens and citizens of this country. The growth of the standard also raises the threshold of poverty, so it seems normal for the criteria to change. But I can't say that criteria always change in favour of those who live badly. A few cases, Mr Minister, may be listed, which could dement you, but what we've changed was not just for your own good. It's been a setback, either you want to admit it or you don't admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u47	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course, when we are listening to the debates that we have already discussed many times today, my conscience somehow urged me to respond to this, Mr Minister, as you said in your speech earlier. You were talking about two things. This government is effective and this government is just. Then I ask myself, "When we analyze the measures, for whom are these effective measures implemented?" Yesterday we talked not about those who are recipients of cash aid, but working. They work and are paid modestly for their work. We were talking about the minimum wage, and we were talking about that the criteria you set, Mr. Minister, and not only did you put them in place, you wrote down in your marriage that you would be the one who would be setting them up for years to come. You set the criteria for calculating the minimum wage very low. Yesterday we talked about that those who work, be and have to pay in - say - labour intensive industries, in sectors where low wages are faster to grow wages. No, no, no. Interestingly, we have not been heard with arguments in this group of people here in Parliament, but we have talked about those who work, and we have repeatedly pointed out additional or completely contradictory measures when you adopt an income law in this government, where, say, a certain group you create the possibility that they will receive substantially higher wages in net wages. Is that justice? We talked yesterday about those who work. Today we are talking about those who, for such or other reasons, are unemployed and in such a situation as to be recipients of monetary social assistance. Mr Minister, I am alone in the environment, where I often accompany both the employment agency and the social work centre, what is going on. Why? Because I come from an environment where we've lost a lot of jobs. No one in those species stands with pride, no one. And when I talk to them, they say they'd rather work materially than be there today and they have to be dependent on asking for help. I have friends and friends who are on minimum wage or unemployed. The unemployed is included in an active employment policy through public works for a reward of 5, 6 000 more than they would have received - say - through financial social assistance, but works. And when he's out of these programs, he comes to me and asks what's going on here. When I was picking apples this weekend - I don't have a problem doing things like this, in many ways - young people asked me, "Tell me how long I'm going to be in this circle to accept these temporary jobs, graduate then and then. I don't have the opportunity to get involved through my degree in such jobs as I could pursue my ambitions. I'm gonna start a family so I can save extra for my pension insurance so I can rent credits. Tell me, what are these measures?" And when I analyzed what was happening in my environment, I could see that from 33% of unemployment we really fell to 16% through active employment policy measures. But since 2004, it's been more or less constant. But when I analyze active jobs, the active population, I see that since 1996, when we had 2,500 active jobs, today we have 2,200 active. And then I ask you at the employment agency, what jobs we're offering. We offer lower levels of education, secondary levels of education and only one job with a sixth level of education. And then I wonder what is the perspective, what is the regionality or consistency of regional development if we offer such a perspective. Don't these people want to work? Thus, because of my experience, I cannot agree with this fact that I say, but these people do not want to work, because in this way, when they stand in line, in order to exercise their rights due to the minimum income from financial social assistance, they provide themselves and their loved ones with a better material situation. As we speak today that we have 40,000 permits and that we lack motorists - I have also analysed this in the last period when we discussed this issue in the second reading. What does it mean that someone took someone into a woodworking workshop and - for example - cut off three fingers in this workplace for a simple reason because they had never been involved in such work processes? Does anyone analyze this story when we say someone has to go and be a car carrier? I tell you, there are no people who would just say that, I don't want to deal with it. But there are certain limits to every individual who - for example - feels capable of a job, but not for a job. And there's no way I can accept that someone here today simply says, "Yeah, but he's gonna see on his face that something doesn't belong to someone's face." So simplify, so easy to address these issues that touch on the dignity of people who touch on the possibilities and perspectives of each such individual. On the other hand, when I ask myself when we talk about social policy, when we talk about labour market policy in the European Union and even when we have been observed by the European Parliament, we have clearly set up full employment, better jobs. Not lower jobs, not lowering the criteria so that we have to do everything on the supply side in order to motivate education, but we do not. Here the integrity of these measures, which we have said many times in this Chamber, is lacking, is a safe flexibility. So flexibility is, but in what way, complete with all the measures. And when you talk about the wrong system being set up. I now ask: "Do you give more to those who already have more, give less to those who have less, while at the same time talking about people not wanting to work? I think it is through these measures that we are setting up the wrong social system. There were no debaters in this Chamber, positions, opposition Members who did not advocate increased control, increased control and the justification for the supervision of recipients of monetary social assistance. And when I listened through the entire discussion of your arguments in 2004 so much, in 2006 so much. No one in this period has argued why this is happening, why you did the analysis. Bring us information that Slovenians are part-timers and that they are happy to go to the social work centre, that they are happy to stand in line to enforce the demand for financial social assistance. I have different experiences. At the same time, I am monitoring what is happening in our area, because we are identifying a demographically significant different image. Young people leave because of a perspective that's better elsewhere. I'm afraid when we ask ourselves why do young experts go abroad to leave because they say, "Yes, tell me, Mr. Member, or I can expect a proper job tomorrow?" And I say, "Mr. or Madam, you will have to take every job, you will be employed, unemployed, unemployed, how long it will take, I don't know." And here I think that a key message, crucial to what this Parliament, this government should do, would create the conditions for as many opportunities as possible for quality jobs. And when we talk about lowering the budget for job subsidies, of course, we are talking about building the wrong system, building it on the wrong basis. And these debates, which are deaf, are unheard of. You have to believe that we do not speak because we are opposition Members and we want something bad to someone, because we also have different views based on the experience of the environment in which we live. And to accept these amendments today, then someone loses their rights from the working relationship, even when they refuse to do what is right, I think it is the right way to solve these problems, so, of course, with little hope that the amendment will be supported, for the last time, we appeal to you, think about it and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u49	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much, again for your word. In view of the fact that a general discussion or some general assertions have been made, it is necessary to respond to the integrity of the approaches. A comprehensive approach on employment of disabled persons, a quota incentive system, an increase of 40% on the Slovenian labour market in the last 7 months. This is a good measure, then you have a proposal to improve the lowest pensions of citizens who have worked in the former republics of the SFRJ and also to introduce an aid and service allowance. There hasn't been a change in the last 10 years. The government has listened to these things. Preventing black work. It is also a bill tabled by the Government, how this will be prevented, because this undermines the safety and health of people and, in particular, those who do their work in black in order to ensure that they receive a decent payment. The minimum wage is yes, the Minister has proposed, because he is aware that it is necessary to raise, but even if only for falling behind standards, the social partners have not been able to agree. That is why, at my initiative, the government has accepted this proposal to raise the minimum wage. Reimbursement for unemployment at the time of negotiations on employment relations. That's what the government suggested. So, raising unemployment benefits, that's a comprehensive measure. Then, we have comprehensive measures to recognize their working hours, parents who have four children, two children, etc. Why is this display necessary? See, we have more and more pensioners in Slovenia who are guaranteed the standard. You see this from the data, it's not a forgery, that's clear. The share of the active population is rising and the share of the employees is rising. Look at this year's growth rate. The number of unemployed is decreasing and, on the other hand, the number of unemployment benefits and financial social assistance is increasing. According to the normal logic of every citizen, we can ask ourselves what is wrong with this system and we have looked at it wrong. Anyone who responds to the job offered, nothing will happen to him, no rights will be removed, they will not be reduced. But those who do not choose to work for humanitarian work will no longer be recipients of social assistance, and that is what people have welcomed. It's all the art of it. These measures are not so complicated, they are very well represented and they have given us a clear message. I am not saying that the previous system was completely wrong. It was, it introduced a comprehensive approach to receiving monetary social assistance in order to ensure that all benefits are taken into account and then calculated. This approach is good. We continue with a single entry point and implement these criteria. The system is being upgraded and this is a message to the public. Not who's more right. Of course, we have sharpened precisely because employers say they don't get workers to do these jobs, they don't get them. Besides, we have to ask ourselves such a fair question. The country has invested a great deal in our education, that we have a high education, a master's degree, and so on. And based on the fact that the state and other taxpayers have invested a lot, then I have the privilege of rejecting the entire spectrum of work. However, the one for whom so much State resources have been invested here has no right to refuse because any work is appropriate for him. From this point of view, we should think about it. I'm not pointing anything at those who respond to the job and will retain financial social assistance. Well, we can do it without regret. About these criteria. That is why the government has supported or supported such a law. Of course, the Members will decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u51	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I also applied because at least one who has been working in this Parliament for a long time is needed, including a word on the trip of the Minister's solo songs. Of course, I do not support this amendment because I say that these two corrections must be taken in a different way. One is compensation for the time of unemployment when someone loses his job for such and other reasons, mainly due to the termination of the employer and technological surpluses etc. Therefore, he and the employer also paid insurance for this case. [[..]] The second is the correction of monetary social support. And of course, we are now simply re-painting a commitment under work obligations, but here the state gives direct support to social money from the budget, which are completely different funds, such as perhaps funds, which have been earmarked through the Employment and Insurance Act if that happens to you. So, on this side of it, it's hard to accept. However, I have made every effort that we have put in place on the committee this harsh approach of the proposer on this issue, to put in place a security guard to the extent that it would prevent the abuse of such a hard-set correction in the opposite direction that we now claim to be abuse. They're abuse, but not so much because there's something wrong with the system. The system's not good, the real minister. Thank God, but when we once wanted to change the individual bad travels of a certain system of this law in the previous term, then the opposition MP was someone else entirely, then he was a mag. Janez Drobnic with a completely different approach to understanding certain social issues. You know. People on the question and state bodies of social policy, social sensitivity, social sustainability of an individual, we cannot act that way. We don't have the legitimacy to act like this. You know what was one of the key weaknesses in the system that we are now changing as good with this law, fixing things and supporting, personally supporting? And what are we not doing? There was no practical control and action over the income of the beneficiaries of social money aid and even now the Minister does not incorporate them into either one or any other law. We have constant recipients of social money that refuse work. But why are they rejecting him? Because they have the income from renting an apartment that is otherwise rented, from renting such or other real estate. Don't count it. And now, because even in this system, the minister does not remove it, of course, we expect much from the hard correction that we have incorporated into the law, that even those who have not now refused to work because he did not need it, but because he is often a mentally unstable person, which is a large part of these beneficiaries, those true beneficiaries of this social money aid, because the state as a social state must oppose them. It's no different. There's a lot of things we don't do. And the question of minimum wage. Mr. Minister knows and the government has been obliged to bring the marriage in time without coming with him too late, which I have warned you is that we were actually standing in a legal void. No one else can act here like the government. It is therefore entrusted to the management of the country. The issue of the law on Slovenian citizens - at the next point we will talk - is not so brilliant, you know, and ideally solved. Mr Minister, sometimes it is only good to be a little self-critical, even when the issue of authenticity and conduct is in the most sensitive social aspect. On this side, I regret, for my part, that this hard measure, which should have a lot of security when someone refuses any work, will be abused. Should not be taken into account in the second paragraph of Article 36(b) that an arbitrator such as this expert commission enters, which will remove or mitigate or disable this possibility. Otherwise, the fact is, you know, the recipients of social assistance are not young experts when we're talking about everything now that's being rejected. The recipients of social assistance are people who either have a calculation because they need time for something else to increase their income or are people who are entitled to it because they are such as themselves, part of this society that can or cannot help themselves or that fate over them. And I'm not going to list them, but they're failing. And so far, and from now on, whether we have resolved this systemicly now into a better system or not, the country, whoever it is, this minister and this government, will have to replicate these social issues as we have done so far - they need to be helped. That's why we collect taxes and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u53	Mr. Aleš Gulič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u54	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I'd only touch a few more things. Here was a lot of talk about black work, as if working on a black-and-white voluntary choice. Black work is also a forced choice and a necessity. Those who work work work in black. And that's not what people are looking for. I'm sure you'd rather get a job in white if it were, but it's not. Just go to the Slovenian road at four o'clock in the morning to see where the boys are going to build in black. 40,000 get the support, 40,000 get the rent, and then what do they live on? Foreigners who come because they are employed by our organisations because it is easier to exploit Romanians, Bulgarians who are without rights or with very few rights. That's what our parents do. Our embassies also employ "locals" to cover costs and so on. Are you going to fix this? Some young people cannot get help because they have to do volunteer work, they say, free of charge at hospitals, free of charge. But at that point, of course, he can't ask for help. So in both ways, they're "scrambled." Did you solve that? Is there anything you're saving with this?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u55	Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much again for your word. We are with the amendments of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy and SD. I am sorry that Member of the SLS has not proposed any better amendment in this sense to further improve the law that is being prepared and could help this as a coalition member. With regard to the amendments I have before me, I was disturbed by article 23 in particular by the explanation: "Faculty-educated people will have to cut grass free or peel hops, and this will indeed destroy their self-esteem and self-confidence." As the Member has already said before me, not all are college-educated. Those who receive social benefits. As well as those agronomists who have already done such work, we have no worse self-esteem, but we are proud to be able to do anything else than sit in this House and humiliate certain tasks. I think there's another job, for example, a nurse in a home that isn't so nice, but she's happy to do it. Therefore, let us take all works of equal value. I know a group of people, like 400 people are Roma in Trebnje. And they're only two employees, and those two people who are employed, and they're being bullied, and they're being bullied by their fellow Roma because they say they're stupid because they're working because they'd get more if they didn't work. And that's something wrong with this system that allows that opinion. So I will not support these amendments, and I also reject such thoughts as that of families on the verge of being socially disadvantaged and now losing benefits. It doesn't say it anywhere, and they won't lose it with this law either. Or perhaps an institution will make an effort to find some of them a job that can only be temporary and can be permanent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u57	Mr. Brenčič, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. You know, Mrs Uhanova, there is neither this nor the previous coalition of cages for a member of the Slovenian People's Party, from which one who has as much a genuine social sense would not look less. I've looked a lot less, and I'll take a look. It would also not have been necessary yesterday for us to have committed the minimum wage law so long if we had only taken this Member of the Committee into account, which has so mentioned this proposal that you did not reject it yesterday. Be dignified.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you. First, I would react to whether the criteria were appropriate or not. If not, Slovenian legislation would be in line with the European legislation if it were not for the adoption of the European legal order, including the European Social Charter, and many other things that the European Social Charter provides, and many more, then they would not have been adopted into the European Union, as far as the appropriateness or inadequacy of the legislation and the labour law are concerned, is already one of those which was crucial in this regard. All I want to do is respond to this, which is the Minister of Mag. A trifle mentioned the achievements of this ministry. I am not saying that for individual groups the population could now find some solutions that are different from previous ones, but the point of amending legislation is that there are better solutions. But what I find is that for some groups of people there is a choice, and for some groups there is no choice. If we have decided to promote parenting among young people, this is good, but we should also take good care of those who choose a different course in life, to which they have every right, and as young people, they are not equal because they fall out of the prospect of running for things. So I don't want to take the debate in a different direction, but it's only fair to be on some things. It should also be considered in such a fair manner whether it has provided sufficient security on both sides. That's what the amendment in 36b weighs. an article where we believe that it is necessary to ensure, however, that someone considers the reasonableness of the answer that the person who considers it is also appropriately put in place. It cannot be said that, without any criteria, an objection is considered unacceptable. It must be a safeguard that this must be the Commission referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. Now, whether any justification for the amendment is really best, it is left to the discretion, but in systemic solutions it is always the case that systemic solutions are left at the brink of individual cases. It is right that when we judge the appropriateness of a solution, we examine whether it covers most of it or not. We believe that those cases of recipients of free social assistance who have an education do not adequately cover them. Indeed, I agree with the Chairman of the Committee that it is poorly taken care of all those who do not even have an education that is uncompetitive in the labour market, either because of any other personal circumstances or anything else. But I'm sorry, but sometimes I think that the indifference of some debaters and debates is sometimes motivated by what is often said, but by a hidden comment that sometimes only comes into play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u61	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u62	Reply to the honourable Member concerning supervision. We have established one transaction account, so that the recipients of the family receive only one account so that it is a review. Second. All transfers in parental protection, social policy, are computer management, databases that connect. Then, we're applying E control after a new one. By November, however, the government will also be drafting the Single Investment Procedure Act for all transfers, which will also allow us to enter into the system of mutual exclusion of individual rights and in this regard also to amend legislation. Because we have found that there are about 100 transfers of different species that accumulate, and we need to ask ourselves how many of these accumulations are applied approximately. Some found that even a million tolars a month’s net. This is what every country and government must ask themselves. But we do not act with greed, but with sober thinking. Of course, as you say for sure, control - I suppose, and I suppose - could introduce some more to rule out abuse. Of course, I can thank everyone for the well-intentioned suggestions, and I will also take them into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u63	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, for your application. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. So, just on a flat-rate finding that you want to increase the activity of job seekers. Of course, there is no answer and no analysis as to whether today's search engines are really inactive. I think you're doing a lot of wrong to people. But it also looks very unconsistency from the debate, because, Mrs Uhanova, you said you expected an institution to take care of someone. I mean, if you're talking about underactivity, then you have to deal with measures in the direction of increased stimulation, not repression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u65	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which we will decide in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.25 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - First draft of the Act on the Supplementation of the Act on the provision of social security to Slovenian citizens who are entitled to the death penalty from the Republic of Slovenia once in a row. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first signed Merrani Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Please, Minister Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! With this proposal, the government follows the principled position of the Republic of Slovenia, that Slovenian citizens should not be deprived of their already acquired or expected rights under the social security system because of the independence of Slovenia. This was explicitly set for NOB fighters and military pensioners, while for others it was only assumed. The biggest differences were found in pensions. After the collapse of the former common country, our pensioners are better off than pensioners in other republics, which is good. Despite some mistakes and delays, the standard of Slovenian pensioners over the past sixteen years has been followed by wage increases. They retained all social rights, protection rights, allowances that went to them in the previous period. However, some new ones were acknowledged. At the same time, the standard of pensioners in other republics of the former SFRJ has deteriorated significantly. This was due to a general decline in living standards, as well as a relative backlog of salaries and a reduction in pension and disability benefits. In most cases they have abolished social security allowances that go alongside pensions. These are: allowance for assistance and service, allowance for recreation, invalidity and other disability benefits and so on. This raised the issue of Slovenian citizens living in the country, but they earned pensions in other parts of the former country from where they now receive their pensions. The backlog of their pensions due to poorer valorisation in other republics has been compensated by additions under the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics. This did not solve the issue of additional rights granted to pensioners under Slovenian rules, but not by the rules applicable in other countries in the former SFRJ area. These rights are based on their content of the right from the general social security system and are also financed from the state budget, not from contributions to insured persons. Therefore, the government proposes that Slovenian citizens residing in Slovenia who receive pensions from insurance holders in other countries in the former SFRJ area, in addition to the addition to a pension from abroad, be granted the right to a one-year supplement and an allowance for assistance and service with the amount to which they would go if they were entitled to a pension in the Slovenian insurance institution. The allowance for assistance and service is granted to a pensioner who cannot take care of himself because of age or illness. It is intended to pay the part of the costs incurred by the beneficiary because, in view of the permanent changes in the health situation, it urgently and consistently needs foreign care and assistance in order to meet the basic needs of life. Eligibility shall be established by the disability commission on the basis of the pension requirement. The supplement shall be determined according to the needs, i.e. for the most severely affected 61,368 tolars per month and for those who can carry out some basic life needs alone, 30,648 tolars for the most severely affected who need permanent supervision and assistance, 87,669 thousand tolars. The honourable Members, the problem we are solving with this law, is already old. The question is not difficult, it has already been discussed and promised much in previous mandates and previous governments. There's been a lot of debate. Therefore, I regret that today we will also discuss this problem, which is already clear to all, only to discuss but not to decide. This will extend the problem of our fellow citizens with pensions from other countries in the former SFRJ area by one month. So now is the time to do something. I suggest you support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear President! Well, the subject of the law that is before us today is not a new subject, as we have heard from the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs who has been preparing this law. The fact is that through the adoption of the law on pension and disability insurance, rights are extended which leave Slovenian citizens who are entitled to pensions from the republics of the former Yugoslavia in an unequal position. They have, in fact, pointed to their difficult situation in the previous term. Because it happens that some pensions from other republics are formerly or formerly Yugoslavia, even under the lowest defined pension in the Republic of Slovenia and do not actually allow for a social minimum. At the meeting of the parent working body, conclusions were adopted on the basis of which the Government was responsible for making calculations and also proposing appropriate solutions. We met again on this subject exactly a year ago. At a meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, in this mandate, where the affected citizens have once again drawn attention to the unsustainable situation and to the country's disobedience or ignorance of their problem. The contributions of pensioners who worked - for example - in the exposures of individual companies, contributed to individual Zpize or pension and disability institutions of the former republics were mostly lower than in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also one of the key reasons or the first step, or first reason, to break up in pensions. After their independence, pensions were as much the same as they were, but the differences began to escalate with faster economic growth in our country. So that difference was increasingly evident. After the break-up of Yugoslavia, Slovenian pensioners retired in other republics of the former Yugoslavia were placed in a worse position than if they had obtained the right to a pension at the Slovenian insurance institution with the same pension age and pension base at the time Slovenia was part of Yugoslavia. Among the key requirements mentioned above, although I said affected groups of pensioners, there is an allowance for assistance and service at a home which has not been eligible until now, and payment of a one-year supplement, previously called a recreational allowance. Although the right to a pension is given to any person who has been insured under Slovenian regulations at the Zpiz or the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. However, there is an exception for Slovenian citizens, by which the beneficiary is covered by Slovenian insurance periods for periods of time or time up to 31.3.1992, in which he was insured in any of the other republics of the former Yugoslavia. In short, after the independence and amendment of the basic legislation on pension insurance, Slovenian pensioners who are entitled to pensions from the republics of the former Yugoslavia were even grouped into several groups. And as was very clear at the meeting of the parent working body, the worst was drawn by the beneficiaries a year ago on the basis of an agreement with the Republic of Croatia. In short, this is also an unequal situation among the so-called groups, depending on the country paying the pension. Among the aims of the new law is to take into account, first of all, the equality of all pensioners, i.e. Slovenian citizens. However, the bill also contains a requirement that has been subject to previous discussions on working bodies, it is said that Slovenian citizens with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia who receive pensions from insurance holders in other countries in the former Yugoslavia region, in addition to the addition to a pension from abroad, are also granted the right to a one-year allowance and, of course, to an allowance for assistance and service in amounts that are paid to pensioners who have applied to the insurance institution. This part sounds very nice and neat, but a hand to the heart is a kind of beauty repair. Allow me to mention some more facts or shortcomings in this novel, which have not been addressed by the government or the competent ministry in the context of this novel. The fact is that the government should submit a law on the retirement of Slovenian citizens who worked in the former republics of the former Yugoslavia. The government should offer the possibility of re-pension to Slovenian citizens. What's really going on today? If a Slovenian citizen has only worked in Croatia for 5 years, then the dose is considered to have worked in Croatia for the whole period. That's not fair. It is not fair to all other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The government should introduce a so-called European standard that allows for a pension based on the actual period when someone worked abroad or for a foreign company. If the government wants to solve the problem, it should also introduce so-called reciprocitys. We should therefore take into account comparable pensions with the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian government should act more sharply towards the former republics. Why? We should freeze the payment of pensions or freeze the payment to pensioners — foreign citizens. I will give Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina as an example. The mistake in this case is the former government. The former government, which, without a legal basis, paid pensions, for example, to Serbian pensioners, and the Serbian authorities did not dictate to our Slovenians, despite the fact that there were no agreements. In fact, the Slovenian budget is double or double-burdened in this case. As I have already said, Slovenia pays to foreign citizens, and on the contrary in large cases it does not happen, and Slovenia is the country that must pay, last but not least, the difference for Slovenian citizens who do not receive the pension they are entitled to abroad. And allow further specific information to further underpin the double burden of the Slovenian budget. 20,000 people receive pensions from other republics. Allow me, the minister has also mentioned today that the government will specifically increase pensions through this law. I said it was basically a beauty repair that doesn't solve the problem in the core. The Minister said he would increase his pensions, I'll say that valorisation means something other than a real increase in income. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. We will support, but we still appeal to the Minister, because today it is a matter of first reading, that, of course, approaches to changes that essentially eliminate what is at stake in the law itself and not least cause inequality or discrimination in this regard. As I have already said, we will support the first reading and, of course, we also count on the participation of the Minister and the government coalition during further discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. A warm welcome to all of you. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members, and I invite the mags. Gdydarsič to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Our parliamentary group will support this law for a simple reason, which is that our citizens working in the former republics of the common country are dependent on the charity of the economic situation and the regulation of pension and disability insurance rights there. Shortly after our independence, we also had cash problems and even the pension freeze occurred at some point, but our economic power was better and the pensioners had those pensions that they were expecting under the law and that were significantly better than those in the other republics. In particular, the problem arose for those of our workers who worked for the same companies in establishments on the other side of the case is Rogaška Slatina, who had an establishment on the Croatian side, and those workers of the same factory came into pensions that were far below half ours, with all the consequences, even in the sense that the arrangement there does not provide an allowance for help and service and an annual allowance, and I do not think that a protective supplement is yet. The impact of these workers is high, the matter has been taking too long and it is right for the state to do something. I have two words to say about the agreement between the countries adopted on this subject. We in the party estimate that the agreement was very bad, that our country did not then take full advantage of the possibility of drawing up an agreement that would give more than a dry pension under the law there. Because that doesn't apply to those pensioners who worked on that side of our house. Therefore, the solution to alleviate the material situation or the excessive difference between our citizens who receive pensions from the former republics, in particular Croatia, is the most, as proposed in the law, but gradually. This is a supplement to help and service that is a necessary right for all those who cannot care for themselves anymore and whose lives are dramatically deteriorating when they need it because it is not cheap. And many times the one who is prescribed by law does not cover the actual cost of someone who has completely laid down and who is in need of full-time care, not just health care, but also social care and other care. The same applies to the annual allowance. We supported the solution to admit this in this year. However, since this year is almost over, this solution has not been reached. We talked about maybe paying this supplement in proportion, and this solution, I don't know if it's going to work. However, it is appropriate that this annual allowance, when possible, be given to all these insured persons to the same extent as those of our nationals who have worked in our country and that, in this respect, there will be no distinction, but it will make an important contribution to improving the material situation of those who have far smaller pensions and do not have other rights under the law of the former republics. In short, our parliamentary group knows and realizes that this law has not fully solved this problem, but we think that something is better now and later than nothing and that we continue to leave our citizens in this unenviable situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Veršnik to present the position of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to a pension from the republics of the former SFRJ. Retirement is the right of an employee to receive it when he fulfils the conditions laid down by law. Of course, there is a problem with Slovenian citizens who have lived and worked in the republics of the former common country and received substantially lower pensions. Therefore, a law on social security for Slovenian citizens has already been passed in the past, when these differences between pensions were slightly rectified and tried to compensate. Nevertheless, all these years this group of Slovenian citizens has been wronged because they did not have a one-year allowance, this is a so-called recreational allowance, and for the affected not the amount of aid and service. Only with this amendment of the law that we are considering today will they be equal to those who have lived and worked in the Republic of Slovenia all the time until the conditions for retirement are met. According to the Ministry, there are approximately 1,800 people who are today given the right to an annual allowance and an allowance for assistance and service. Only now will this group be aligned with other pensioners in Slovenian society. With this law, we are additionally charging the budget for approx. 140 million tolars, which is negligible compared to the satisfaction that the injustice caused to this group of citizens is being abolished. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always advocated the independence of Slovenia and kept the promises made at the time of independence, so today we are also predicting support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Germič has the following word on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u74	Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Today's amendment to the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former republics of the SFRJ means a third amendment to this law and the fact that any change has brought certain improvements to the situation of this group of people. Therefore, in the LDS, we also support these proposed changes. This amendment proposes that this group of pensioners, in addition to a foreign pension and an addition to a pension under Slovenian rules, be granted the right to a one-year supplement and to an allowance for assistance and service in amounts such as those who have established a pension in the Slovenian insurance institution. The amendment of the law partially implements the conclusions of the meeting of the parent working body of 7 September 2005. Unfortunately, that amendment came only after one year after the Committee's meeting, although we were expecting it, and this also shows the contents of today's proposal so that the law could be dealt with as early as last year and financial obligations could be included in the 2006 budget. More importantly, the fact that beneficiaries could exercise the rights of the law a year earlier, given their testimony and the consideration of the age of beneficiaries, is of paramount importance. However, the fact remains that Minister Drobnič has failed to take into account the large majority of the decisions adopted by the home working body of the National Assembly of 25.5.2004 and 7 September 2005. At the LDS, we expected Minister Drobnič to define himself until these conclusions to present us with the government's position, so he would take an even greater step forward. People who defend their rights would know what they can and cannot expect from this government. However, given the fact that the Ministry representative did not want to participate in the meeting of the mother's working body last September when these issues were addressed, we can conclude that the Ministry does not pay sufficient attention to these open issues. Of course, the answers are of great interest to Slovenian citizens who are entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics, which has been shown many times by their participation and numerous visits at the Ministry and in individual parliamentary groups. So we ask you again, Mr Minister, what is the position of the Ministry and what is the government's position on these issues? What are your answers to the conclusions of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family and Social Policy and Disabled Persons adopted at the 7th regular meeting last September? Allow me to briefly restore the contents of the joints. In the first decision, the Committee notes that the decisions addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the Committee on these issues relating to the issue of Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ, in particular from Croatia, were not implemented at its 24th regular meeting on 25.5.2004. In the second decision, the Committee notes that the existing situation is discriminatory for Slovenian citizens who are entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics and therefore reiterates its proposal to the RS Government to draw up a specific law on the recognition and assessment of the pensions of these citizens. Therefore, we are somewhat disappointed at the LDS in the conduct of the minister and his representatives, who do not wish to be defined until the conclusions of the competent working body of the national assembly. Recognizing that some Members and Members of the ruling coalition have shown understanding on this issue and the desire to resolve this issue as soon as possible, of course we are surprised that we have a half-law on our hands today, a year later, which has no explanation for why the rest is not in law. We therefore want to know during the discussion why the Ministry of Labour in drafting the law did not take into account the decisions adopted by the mother's working body as early as May 2004. Only to refresh the memory with which they agreed at that time and also actively participated in their formations by the current Minister of Economy, Mr Vizjak, and the current President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjat. If I list the unrealised decisions of the parent committee adopted on 25 May 2004, which the Government has proposed to take into account in the drafting of the law, I would like to stress only the first part of the decision, which states that the pension is a work-related right, so it must be based on working age and must reflect all the worker's active period and should therefore not be merely a social adjustment. During the debate, we therefore expect the Ministry of Labour to define itself for these proposals, and in particular to present its position on whether these beneficiaries are in favour of a social settlement of this issue, or whether this right stems from work, which results in a different calculation of pensions. As I said at the outset, in spite of only the partial solutions that this law brings to the solution of this problem, we will, of course, support the law and, once again, wish to have answers to the questions raised in this debate about the position of this ministry, this government, to the integrity of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The following shall have the word of a colleague of the Potz on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps the Minister has deliberately highlighted the Group of Social Democrats, which proposed a general debate, and even made it clear to us that we would therefore be guilty of later adoption of the law. Let me say that this is really not right, because I should have disgusted myself because, within my competence, for two years, he did nothing to ensure that the proposed amendments and additions were adopted, especially since last September, when the mother's working body once again adopted sufficiently clear conclusions. Let me start by saying this first, because I think it's a shame that we're looking for differences at points where we might find some consensus. Secondly, I am sure that the general debate on this subject and on this law, I am speaking consciously about the subject and the law required, because from what the Minister has said and what they have said or what we have said, you may say the same thing about me, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, I feel and understand that we do not see the problem in the same way. That the Minister thinks that with the proposed law, which is useful and we will also support it, and thank God that he is at least now invested and that some of the injustices will be rectified, but the Minister thinks he is solving all the problems. It solves an important part of the problems, because it certainly represents an important contribution for the affected allowance and service and the annual allowance, which can also be a large part of the relative low pension they have, but the underlying problems are not being solved. We will therefore support this proposal. However, we would like to stress, as has already been done by Mr Germić, that many of the tasks that were the contents of the conclusions adopted in the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Policy remain unrealised. Where do we see problems? Firstly, it is actually three groups of citizens who have a very different situation. However, the characteristic of all is that they have done part or all of their working hours in the old former Yugoslavia and in other republics of the previous common country and are now in different ways getting evaluated this work. The pensioners who retired until the monetary independence of Slovenia are said to be in the best position until 8 October 1991. At that time, the pension they received was equal to Slovenian tolar, and then each year they receive the coordination that Slovenian pensioners receive, in short, share with our pensioners the fate. And the differences that remain at this point remain only in the difference at the nominal level, which has been at times relative to the salary and pension between Slovenia and the other republics of the former common country, but these differences are not so unacceptable. The second group is composed of citizens who were retired from work in other republics after 8.10. And since, fortunately, it soon became apparent that there were really great problems, it was already the first time in 1992 that a law had been adopted to provide social security for Slovenian citizens who were entitled to pensions from other republics of the former SFRJ, and partly corrected this situation. When it was found that these new pensioners were not provided for, the law was corrected and their pension began to be paid up to the difference in the amount of the lowest pension in Slovenia, and this was further corrected. However, as far as I am concerned, and we have pointed out and commented on this at the time of the adoption of the law, regardless of whose government we were in or whose government we were not in, it is wrong in our belief. In fact, it helped people, but it helped by the principle of social assistance, not by the right to work. And it said, you get the lowest pension to fix your social situation, but it didn't take into account what someone actually did in another republic for 10, 20, 30, 40 years and how comparable it would be for the same work to get a pension if you got it under Slovenian rules. The third group, however, consists of citizens who have a shared working age and who receive part of their pension from another country - it is mainly Croatia and Macedonia, with which we have concluded an appropriate social protection convention - and they receive part in Slovenia. These problems are also due to the fact that pensions in Macedonia and pensions in Croatia are only much lower and the difference in the amount of pensions they receive is, for example, the same work and the same working age from Slovenia and from that other country, 20-, 30- and 50 %. And that's a question that we should be able to solve. This is how we see the problem, and we believe that we should approach all these problems fully. Regrettably adopted by the mother's working body, but not by her own fault, but also by the previous governments, which did not show sufficient understanding of this issue or was more of a social issue, whether we have money or not, or whether it will be possible to determine the comparable criteria, whether it will be possible to find the means and the like, which were all the reasons, but the fundamental reason that man, because of the breakdown of the country, must ensure the right he had before, whether he had worked in this or another part of the former country, was not, this has not been sufficiently taken into account. Thus, the conclusions were adopted, first of all, as already mentioned, in the spring of 2004 and at the request of the President of the home working body, Mr Brenčič, who put the matter on the agenda, again on the agenda on 7.9.2005. I don't want to quote the conclusions in full, but I would like to highlight the two of them. For the first time, the key feature of these conclusions is to solve the problem on the basis of the right to work and this has not been resolved so far. Even with this proposal, this government does not solve it. I would like to remain our common understanding that this is an obligation that awaits this government. Secondly, on the basis of which it could arrange this, it must draw up a specific proposal for a law to ensure this right. In short, it's not just about social remedies, it's about justice from work. That is why I expect that in the majority, including with the joy of sending a group of Social Democrats, we will support the current proposal of the law, which gives rights, for many, these rights will be important. We have also spoken with representatives of the society of Slovenian citizens retired in other republics of the former Yugoslavia, and it is their absolute desire to support and adopt these laws as soon as possible, realizing that a better sparrow is in the hands of the pigeon on the roof; because it has been very clear to them, we are now able to do so if you want to accept, of others perhaps at some time or not. But our task is that "about others maybe sometime or not" will not be accurate and that the National Assembly will be, and I believe that, because the President and the mother labour body have done so far, they have insisted that the coalition also develop proposals that will permanently resolve this issue. And if we find that together, then the general debate is more than necessary, because for years and years we've always been in a circle, we've always been in a circle, and once we think that we've agreed in principle on how the problem needs to be solved, there's someone on the sidepath and the shortcut to solve just a few useful and necessary social issues, but it doesn't completely solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolič will present the position of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u78	Well, hello, chairman! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Finally, we have before us a law that is supposed to eliminate an injustice that is more than 10 years old to pensioners, Slovenian citizens who have been employed in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. The Novela, which complements the existing law, has two or three articles pointing to solutions, and in our New Slovenia Group we ask what the general debate is about. I'm also going to snort down on the SD and ask myself if anyone has a bad conscience today that the problem is dragging on for such a long, fat decade. We are wondering whether the applicant for the general debate had the right purpose, or whether anyone is even interested in the continuation of the agony. Why the concerns and the justification? Those of you who have been in the government in previous mandates have had the opportunity to listen to these people, pensioners who mostly live along the Slovenian-Croatian border. Today we can say you had a chance. But, dear colleagues, those of you who were in power in the past period, you were obliged to solve the problem because these people also trusted you. Only those who worked in Croatia, I am talking about these people, there were more than 5,000, today there are only 1,300 more. We can ask ourselves if today's weight of the problem is any different than it was decades ago. Certainly not. It is a category of our citizens and citizens who have been deprived of life in the past in one way or another. It is the people who are fighting for the correction of material injustices that are the people who, after a decade of fighting with the country in 2003, founded the Association of Slovenian Citizens retired in other republics of the former SFRJ. The company was established for the purpose or because the actions of individuals or groups of victims did not produce fruit. We must be aware that this is not only a problem, as we have heard before, to solve social problems in terms of equalization of pensions, but we must also look at this problem in terms of ensuring rights from work. After the breakup of the former SFRJ, pensions previously applied by insured persons in different republics under the same Yugoslav law are coordinated in their own way in each of the new countries. In Slovenia, pensioners are provided with a significantly larger range of rights. The difference is felt most by Slovenian citizens, pensioners who live in Slovenia and receive pensions from neighbouring Croatia. In the New Slovenia Group, we are of the view that it is high time for these people, who have worked 35, 40 or more years, to be given the autumn of life, to a decent man. That is why, in both last year and this year, we supported all the activities carried out by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in addressing this problem. We must point out that they have been further disappointed after some kind of agreement was reached after a number of talks to resolve most of the most pressing issues by recognising flat-rate allowances, which otherwise go to Slovenian pensions. At the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, this was included in the amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance. We know how things got messy, and these people also lost their annual allowance in 2006. A bitter taste for all, including for some who are sitting in this national assembly and living with these people, we know their social situation and regression, if I may say so, they do not need to spend their summer vacation because they cannot afford it, but they would need it in particular in order to ensure their daily needs. And I am where I was at the beginning or what I initially said, why general discussion. Are we not familiar with the problem after ten years? Everything's stalling again. We have to save him today because it's too late for a lot of people tomorrow. And I'm gonna finish up with the data again. I am only talking about pensioners who were employed in Croatia. These were around 4,250 in 1992, today, say and write, only 1,300 more. At any time, we will reach the number 3,000 who have already found their eternal peace and need no more help. Let us, therefore, help those who are still in a position to be smitten today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The latter will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First, on behalf of the Group of Members, I will begin where I felt the need to start earlier. I find that in this house we can be so ghastly that it's ugly. When this matter, which we are dealing with today, wanted to be regulated where I say myself that, in the law on pension and disability insurance, I, of course, with my parliamentary group, should strongly oppose such work on behalf of the parliamentary group - that these few Slovenian citizens will be treated discriminatoryly against all others, their equal citizens. And we will first admit to them only a lower annual allowance than we have recognised to those who receive maximum pensions, and we have not been prepared to acknowledge at least proportionality for this year. And that's why the situation at the time was that it would rather have been thrown out of that law than if this discrimination on my "hard enema" had been fixed. Let us be a little more principled on this issue. The issue that we are addressing with this law seems very important to me, despite the fact that it somehow touches on a small number of our citizens, who are an insignificant element on the issue of elections, but still. We have taken this matter very seriously on the committee, even on my behalf as Chairman, to deal with the beginning of 2004. Even then, given that we have come to realize the situation, and that we have also corrected the law in question in 2001, which in the social aspect is trying to make a sustainable situation for these citizens, I have advised the people who presented the situation to me to organise themselves as a society, however, that they will be a more successful interlocutor to the public authorities, because it is clear to us that the number of a question is too small or that the question related to a small number of people is difficult to resolve. But nevertheless - we have started well and I must say, the law has been properly prepared, unfortunately the mandate has ended too quickly. We started an electoral campaign in which, interestingly, some even had the 50-50 equalization of these citizens with ours, even at the height of their pension, in their electoral programme, which is why the previous entry of the original rapporteur, or one that the billmaker is unnecessary. The minister understands that. I firmly believe that this issue could have been resolved long ago in this mandate, because it does not represent such a great financial burden that the capacity of the State would not have been able to do so, but let it stand, it is good for us to move. Who are these citizens? I like it very much because in his explanation of the objective and the principles he described who these citizens are, we as a country have a duty to its citizens, but this duty must also be reflected materially, and that is not the case, but nevertheless. These are our citizens who pay taxes like all of us, taxes that fill the state budget. Many of the rights deriving from the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, in particular which are additional rights, are financed from these taxes, not from the starting money generated from the work for pensions. This is said to mean that these people are also creating money for a security allowance, for an allowance for aid and service, and also for an annual allowance, so I did not understand that we, very quickly after the elections in the title of the same government, my government and my minister, have also proposed an annual allowance to those who have the highest pensions. And then we couldn't involve these people, we talked about the ability of the country, that's incorrect. And so to say that we are now saving this, yes, "a little bit later", is the time, we could have solved it by then, at the first novelty of pension disability insurance in this mandate, if we were genuine. That is why I welcome at least this part of public money that we all create, including these citizens, even to these citizens. But it's not discriminatoryly half the amount, or a smaller amount than it was a little back-up. This is irresponsible work and I object to it, even if there are only 1,500. I welcome that this movement has finally taken place in this special law, otherwise we have had a vision that the "lex specialis" law would be made; but well, wherever it is, the purpose and purpose of the law or the solution is important. And in the parliamentary group, we welcome this recognition, even if the situation in public finances is such that we cannot grant them a protective allowance, even though they are doing so, my people. I don't know what these citizens are different from, so that this right doesn't go to them. But the problem is that their receipts are so low that these Beneficiaries would be more of a protection allowance, of course, but we're saying what I know about 200, 300 million. We certainly welcome that. As far as I am concerned personally and our Group of Members, we have no bad conscience because we were already in the structure that had to solve this problem in the previous term. We saved his life, but we couldn't save him until the end. But we could have saved him sooner than we did today. I'm sure it's a good thing we've done this now. I think that even more acute questions need to be put under closer scrutiny and, in due course, try to do the opposite, although it is also true that pensions in Croatia are rising a little faster than we do and that this large pension gap that we would have if we were here in our Zpiz or there is a little smaller. Anyway, I'm glad it happened. Perhaps it is also right that we have discussed this in our introduction today, and it is still right that in this law, if we cannot already give a public financial picture, we should also put in a protective supplement to recognize, however, that, as far as the end of the year remains, only a proportionate part of this annual supplement. And I'll remind you of something else, but I was encouraged earlier by the minister. We have now before us already on the benches, at least a coalition, a proposal for a law on the coordination of social transfers, etc. And I wonder, the truth of today's performance. In this law, we have reached a certain limit on the addition that we have given to the pensions of these citizens under the Social Security Act to overcome the greatest disproportion. Well, this supplement, normally, like all the emerging things in the pension-disability law, we have coordinated the same as the pensions. We will now move it to coordination with rising prices of living needs. This will automatically cause this imbalance between the pensioner, our citizen who receives this allowance or pension from Croatia, for example, to increase or increase to a home comparable pension. I just want to say, let's be honest and be aware of the actions, not just the actions that are being said. We do not agree with this, alone and our Group of Members, but I hope that we will talk about this issue for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and of the 1,500 or 1,600 remaining citizens. In any case, I will insist, if nothing else, that a protective allowance will be granted to them sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Allow me, in doing so, to ask that all the Members of Parliament sign off on those Members and Members who do not wish to discuss, because, at first glance, there are these things. That's why he's got the word "magic." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, I signed my own request for a general discussion of this law at a meeting of the National Assembly, and I am not blushing at all because it seems right for me to discuss these matters. And even if we say something bitter in the opening part, but at least now that we are ready to solve this problem, we are trying to solve the problem by at least recording and contributing to it as soon as possible, not putting it off again for the next few years, I don't know how many years. The question of the general debate. Otherwise, I must say that this is a debate on the right to work, which is the pension, when I speak about it myself from the position of the President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, because the Commission often receives requests from individuals who are in one way or another dissatisfied with the calculation of what they are supposed to receive as a right from work. Among those who turned to the Commission were those who did their work in Croatia in particular. The second experience I had was the experience of the parliamentary group. I can therefore argue that in the Group of Members we have actually tried to resolve this problem in the previous term, but we have not been successful, and it is true. It is also true that we supported the conclusions proposed by the chairman of the committee on the Committee's work, family and social affairs. Let each one of you take his or her responsibilities as far as he or she is concerned. I would not like to give the impression that the requirement for a general discussion is any desire to delay the adoption of this law or anything else. It was felt for a moment as if the Social Democrats had any concerns because of this requirement. We believe that it is right to regulate what is being done, but of course we feel that too little is being done. That is why I expect the lawmakers to listen to the legitimate requirements and, of course, also to the third requirement, the protection allowance, to be incorporated into the law; if not now, just below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a word with my colleague, Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the novelty of this law is only a cosmetic correction that does not solve the issue. In fact, we can support it, but the fundamental question remains: When and how will the government solve the issue? It's a re-dosing of pensions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should offer the possibility of re-pension to Slovenian citizens, and the government should introduce a so-called European standard that allows for a pension based on the actual period when someone worked abroad or for a foreign company. I'll give you the case of the Slovenian Railways. After independence, we donated all the property of the so-called Istrian Railways, the Pole tracks to Croatian Railways. By then, of course, our workers had worked in this area and paid contributions to the so-called then railway transport company Ljubljana, the ZTPs were then, and when these same people retired, they had no right to the proportional part of the pension that was supposed to belong to workers for the time of work now in the Croatian area. The fact that the chairman of the committee is speaking, sorry, Mr Brenčič, I have to argue with you, we have told people to organize themselves, it is sad, you know; and that it is good to move, I also think that this is not a statement by the president of the labour force. As with the fighters, time works in this context for you and the pensioners will surely be diminishing in some time period. And those who are being wronged are likely to be less and less. However, look, it is insurmountable that we are so poorly concerned about our citizens and that we cannot demand reciprocity if we know the data, and I am surprised that the president of the labour force does not know that we are essentially obliged to pay pensions, which we are exemplaryly paying for the 20,000 people who have worked in Slovenia and in fact Slovenian citizens receive pensions or pensions in about 5,000 in the real crowd. The fact that we don't really know the cost of supplements is not true. Some 1,800 pensioners are from the former Yugoslavia and it would therefore be necessary to pay 90 million a year, not 300 million, as the President states. For the payment of aid and service allowances around 50 million. These are data that can be accessible and at least to those who make this policy and adopt such conclusions, which are half-hearted and perhaps now like before the elections, that in fact you are a little "sucker" this political event, and in fact a very semi-made matter, are not good. If you are already correcting injustices, correct them in such a way that you will not cause new injustices. Surely this new law will open the wound to those who have earned this money and have not received it remains. If we are talking about the rule of law, then let us be at least so receptive as to ask other countries that do not respect international standards to do so, even if we have to seek assistance from European authorities or within the EU. So much, my point is that you're looking for excuses and you're talking about what you're supposed to do, but you didn't, but you had a chance to do it. I believe that if money can be poured out and thrown through an open window, that even those who have been creating a tax level over the decades will be taken care of by giving them what is theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, it is your turn to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u86	Procedurally. Mr Friend, a minimum standard is owed to every honourable Member in this Chamber, as set out in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. But, Mr. Brenčič, you have the floor. You're giving up. Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u88	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Given the time, of course, which was available for the preparation of a comprehensive solution to this law, and since the cases had already begun in the previous term, there in May, I think that one of the important meetings which was entrusted with the responsibility to prepare and to make sure that these injustices were resolved between those who worked in other republics and those who worked in Slovenia. I think that this solution is not the best at this point, nor the optimal or not good, but it is certainly better than nothing. In fact, it is almost the most difficult thing for me to say when we are talking about these things, because I know that the issue could be resolved entirely also because it was already highlighted in May 2004 what this is all about. I think that Mr Andrej Vizjak, the current Minister of Economy, discussed this for quite some time and time. But anyway, I am sure that we will support this novel in our group, because it saves at least one part of the social distress of people who, not by their own fault, not by their own fault, not by their own decision, alone, have come into this situation. It should be noted that, however, the beneficiaries of these pensions are people who lived on the edge of Slovenian ethnic territory and sought work in any of the neighbouring republics or were sent by decrees to other republics. It is important to know that it has sometimes been employed in this way and that in fact there was no specific choice and that, of course, there was no talk of the free movement of labour and such matters. Generally speaking, these people have already created a basis in the common country for what we have today and certainly have, of course, we have a duty to exercise their rights from work and that is no mercy. For this reason, I think and I hope that the conclusions of May 2004 as well as of 2005, which impose exactly the same on the current Minister, still apply that this amendment of the law will not put them out, move them away, or move them into some imaginary future. So, at this point, I also call on the Minister to prepare, in accordance with all the decisions of the home committee, a law that will solve these matters comprehensively, not so in half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. And he's already got the word "magic." Capuder. Please. He's quitting. Then Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thanks again for saying that. I will certainly be one of the most joyful or satisfied Members of this National Assembly if this problem is resolved, given that the number of these pensioners is the largest in the congregation I come from. That is why, in presenting our position, I have mentioned the urgent need to resolve the problem as soon as possible. From this very point of view, I had doubts about the general debate. The people who are affected by these problems - in fact, I must say - are aware of the solutions proposed and will certainly be happy to accept them. Unfortunately, these solutions are not solutions for this year. I also wanted to stress this earlier, and I would be very pleased if this had been achieved this year. I am disturbed by the debate when some of you emphasise pre-election time. I think these people have already given me no idea how many and how many pre-election times are going through and the rest are where they are today. But I must also point out that I am pleased alone that I can be mayor and that as a congregation, we were able to help them. It seems to me little if I can say unevenly from the point of view of those or state institutions, when we share money, say, socially endangered, when we have certain funds for single cash aid in our budget, it was now entirely right in our congregation that we have allocated most of these funds to these people. I would be very happy if, in the future, the remaining citizens, who also feel the need for this money, will come into line. From this point of view, too, it would be right to settle this problem, so that we are also equal in local communities in Slovenia. That is why I would also appeal to all you Members and Members to adopt this proposal of the new law as soon as possible, and I will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Germich to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! Of course, I do not know how to assess the fact that Mr Minister Mikolić, at the outset and then colleague Mikolić, has disgusted the Group of Social Democrats with the need for a general debate. If I were well-intentioned, I'd say it's a nuisance. Of course, I can't believe it was said. For one simple reason, which I have already presented in the position of the Group of Members. In September last year, we proposed conclusions on the committee, and in September this year we have a marriage on our hands. Sir, I'll try to answer that if I'm allowed. That means nothing has been done in a year. When we get to the table, however, we see that it partially solves what we Members have already done in the previous term. It would be correct if you produce a wish to explain that then the Members will also remain so that we can do it properly. Of course, provocation may be a way of working, which I do not think is right. If I may continue. That means we've had our conclusions for a year. Now, however, the Group of Members, which called for a general debate, which was logical for me in the sense that we are only saving part of what we have adopted on the Committee, for this content of the law that is on the table today. On behalf of the Group of Members, I have made it clear how this Government feels about these decisions. I also made it clear that this could not be observed on the Committee because there were no government representatives on this committee. I think it makes sense that in this broader context we can discuss in the context of the first reading, because at the second reading we can only talk about the amendments tabled, the content of the law. Of course, I want and expect us to come up with these answers, so it seems perfectly justified to me, why general debate and certainly not in the sense that you want to prejudge that some agony should continue. I can--I'm sorry he's a mag. Capuder went away and said it wasn't much done or not enough in the previous period. I myself have been a member of the previous term and we must say that we have also held these discussions on the committee.But in the previous term, we succeeded in supporting the members of the coalition and the opposition at the time in adopting certain decisions that we have imposed - if I may say so - on the government that we have formed in the desire that these things be resolved. Today, Mr Mikolič, when you are calling on us to support this law, we have said that we will support this law, but what I expect from you is why it has not appealed to the Minister to fully resolve this matter. For two years, this government has, as it were called, been in the office and regulating the things it's responsible for regulating. I have here your colleagues' statements on the committee, which were at the time we discussed this, so last September, appalled at these situations that have taken place in this area. After one year you appeal to us to support this, what we knew we would support, because we supported the conclusions two years ago as we did last year. But do you think that we should not open the story to see if in this government we will be able to resolve these matters or, as has been said two years ago, that we would try to draw up such a law if our so-called government is not able to do so? Today we have heard a lot about what the Ministry has done, done, done. And for that, the Minister said correctly today, in one year we have not done more than not to say in two, not to say this, but to "screw" the parliamentary group, as she imagines that we will be one month late, so that we will open up all these questions, which would not be possible in the second reading, because we would say that we are in breach of the rules of procedure, that we cannot open them for a simple reason, because this is not the content of the law. From this point of view, I think it's important, Comrade Mikolitch. I agree with the appeal that this National Assembly should adopt arrangements for these people by providing them with social security, not from a social address, but from the right to work. Of course, I am even more surprised by this - as I said in my presentation on the position of the Group of Members - today Mr Vizjak is the Minister of this Government. Read the magnetograms of his statements, which he advocated at the time when he was a member of the opposition. So, he's got all the levers in his hands to sort this stuff out. In two years, unfortunately, we have failed, along with this new government, which today is telling us how much more effective it is, how fairer it is. Then let's actually show these things. In two years, at least this segment was made significantly less. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u93	Please, only Mr. Germich has the floor, and then the minister gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for your intervention. Of course, this betting, who, what, why, will not lead to a significant improvement in the problem we are talking about today. I am just trying to justify the content of the requirement for a general debate that seems logical to me. However, illogically and improperly, I think that they are evident to those who today have requested this general debate, because only in this way can we open up a substantial number of the breadth of this problem that actually exists. We don't want to close it again without talking about it. Of course, I expect that in his speech, Mr Minister will clearly define the content of the answers that I have put forward at the time of the presentation of the Group's position and now that this is a general debate. For in this way it will be clear to all of us that we will not have to address each other's appeals as to the conduct of this government. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of decisions have been adopted by the Committee in the previous term. Governments have changed, and today we expect clear answers to these questions after two years of this government. And we want the will to help these people as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you. And my colleague Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Because I can't believe it's true. Fifteen years ago, on our own, we promised the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that because of Slovenia's independence, their social security rights would not deteriorate. They are a group of citizens living in Slovenia who are retired, and before retirement they were employed in other republics of the former common country because of a better standard than we have already established, and higher pensions in Slovenia have been eliminated or, rather, reduced slightly by additions recognised by the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the republics of the SFRJ. Everything's fine and fine up here. From here on out, things have been happening in the past that, as an MP with less than two years of experience, are no longer understandable. In order to fully implement the self-sustaining promise, this group of citizens had to wait for the full 15 years, and they would probably have to wait another year to finally be granted what was theirs from the beginning. It seems shameful to me that those who always boast with a sense of social justice and had all the levers of power in their hands in the 15th years were not able to gather enough will or courage to guarantee them these rights, which we find today, that they were not granted. Today, we are ahead of this or in this process before a great step is taken. This has been admitted to them will be an aid and service allowance and a so-called recreation allowance. Since their pensions are likely to be significantly lower than our beneficiaries, this will mean a lot to them. And that's not a small step. It's a big step for them. Unfortunately, there are also many who will probably not be witnesses to correct the painful injustices that have happened to our citizens - I stress - to our citizens, who have probably sometimes not lived and worked in other republics of our common country by their own initiative and will. Only on the day of the entry into force of this law will they be able to say that they are a step closer to equality for their peers who have lived and worked all the time in Slovenia. When it comes to whether the request for a general debate has been justified or unjustifiable, I will just say that I am by nature a more practical person. I think that this request is, despite the fact that I have listened very closely to it, I am interpreting such respectable Mr Potrč as respectable Mr Germić, and I cannot imagine that we are delaying this procedure, that the people, who are actually difficult to wait for these supplements, will probably get these supplements a month or two later. Of course, that doesn't mean much to us. For those who are struggling to survive, each month would be fine, especially if we know that they are old people and that they are precious to them every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the Minister of Mags. A little thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the law is aimed at a social political dimension. All of these supplements, which are additional rights, stem from the assumption that better social security needs to be ensured. However, they do not come from the basis of the contributions paid. On the basis of the contributions paid, this was ensured in the social agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Slovenian State. However, because of differences in standards, the difference in pensions results in such differences. Similar differences also occur with pensioners, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who worked in any other country where there are lower pensions. From this point of view you can get a clear answer: no. It's not the title of the job that makes this right. They are, of course, social security. In particular, the pensioners warned us in cases where they get older when they need help and service to significantly increase the cost of living, either by introducing help at home, or by setting up a home for the elderly. That's when the costs go up a lot. Therefore, this right to aid and service is the right one, the right one that is most appropriate. There's no need to say that these are fragments, maybe for some. 87,000 a month, I don't think it's a trifle, it's a need for help for someone who has a low pension and is set up in a nursing home to be able to do it. Of course, those who increase their cost of living are given because their health is deteriorating. That's a fact, or they have a pension. With this one-year supplement, they will increase their pension by about 10%. It's a motorized fact. What is the point of accepting this law earlier? He was in the proposal for a law on disability insurance. However, the government has decided to withdraw all additional provisions from that law on pension disability insurance due to the threat of the European Court of Justice. Also in relation to changes necessary for insurance organisations, as regards the real estate fund, the management of the pension and disability insurance institution and with regard to this provision. We withdrew everything in order to be able to meet the condition of a reduced procedure, for we had to introduce it. Of course, the process of drafting the law is somewhat more difficult at the Ministry of Labour, because it is necessary to first agree with non-governmental groups, then inter-departmental coordination, coordination with the social partners, the development partnership, coalition coordination and a number of others. Everyone takes their time. Just like you took some time. However, the law is ready, and the government has also provided it with the best possible means, in good faith, to the State Assembly for Admission. It is therefore a notorious fact that the government has reacted to the fact that it has responded appropriately, on the basis of social security, social protection. On the basis of work, all conditions have been met already, as this is also a bilateral agreement. We're just suggesting that you accept it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since the time for discussion has not yet passed, what is left of it, I ask whether, pursuant to Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Of course, we will apply in accordance with more modern technology. So I invite you to press the button as far as you can discuss. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. We only have Mr. Germich. Of course, that doesn't mean you'll be discussing for an hour and 12 minutes, but only for five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The purpose of my debate was merely to explain what the law brings, so that there would be no doubt in the sense of what it brings for a month. Because if we were to read the law, we'd know. And what numbers are there, because I think this has to be repeated so that it doesn't stay in the air. Once again, I read the articles on this subject: "The right to an allowance for aid and service provided for in Article 4b of the Act is justified by the application of this Act if it submits a request within 6 months of the application of this Act, or from the first day following the submission of the request." The second right goes: "The right to the annual allowance referred to in Article 4b of the Act goes justifiably from the beginning of the first calendar year following the entry into force of this Act." So we wouldn't be fooling people about how this month changes things now. Because if we wanted to do so from September 2005 to December 2005, we could do so and all of 2006 would fall as a right to add to these people. Just so it doesn't turn out that we're talking and we don't want to solve some things, that we're being hypocritical when we're talking. And then you say that this month brings significant delays in the exercise of these rights. That seems incorrect to me. I think, colleagues and fellow Members, that many times, at least on the basis of my experience, in the parliamentary groups, it is possible to see some different points of view than, say, at some point, the government has. But let us be right when we talk about these questions. Of course, when we talk about what this month brings, look at what we have written in marriage, for this way we will be right for the people. For now it will look as if one month is essential for what is happening to rights, but when we read the content of the law, we see that the right that bears 90 million financial obligations per year will be exercised by 1.1. whereas the right that takes 50 million will be exercised from the day that this law is put into effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Minister, would you like another word? But, Minister, we should check in first, at least manually, it's a custom.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u102	Either I need to do it manually or I don't know. How do I apply?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u103	Manual.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u104	I didn't know that. Besides, I don't think there's anything I need to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u105	But since it is beneficial for all of us to hear an additional opinion, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u106	You've changed these devices and procedures a little lately, so I wasn't aware. I'm sorry, but you know, in advance, I can't know because the government hasn't been informed that you've changed the regime. If you'll excuse me, I can only answer that there's an allowance for help and service right now. However, since everyone pays once a year in June, it is a provision such as that of all pensioners in the coming year and month. There's nothing out of the ordinary. It was well-intentioned. I think we've covered everything up with this, so there's no need.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. That's a different explanation. Here's the thing about reporting. Members can now apply electronically and the government still manually, for a simple reason, because they are not always the same government representatives in the same seats and cannot register. And when we share the rest of the time, it's only then that we have to raise our hand to say it in five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I'd just like to ask why you haven't done one more round since I checked in earlier and I just didn't make it. I don't know what the system is like here. When do you end up with something else to discuss on the basis of the predecessor? Once again, it is because of this subject that my predecessor has chosen, and there is still an option or should then be given an opportunity to speak or discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. That's an explanation, too. It's a practice to only do one lap when we share the remaining time. As far as possible, each Member may receive 5 minutes if the time is less than we agreed to calculate the remaining time, so even for seconds, if necessary. Usually this does not happen and clearly more modern technology or electronic reporting has not changed this. I hope I answered your question. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. It is now clear that it will be before 21.25 p.m., so it was originally thought out. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister, the Secretary of State for Cooperation. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - First draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Nationality of Slovenia - EPA 979 /IV. We have two hours and 35 minutes to discuss. The proposal for a law was submitted by the RS Government for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Dara Lovtizar Bebler, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u110	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have before you a proposal for a new law on the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia which regulates the areas of acquisition, termination and registration of citizenship. The aim of the amendment is to simplify and rationalise the process of work, which is now causing difficulties in naturalisation procedures. On the other hand, the introduction of institutions that ensure greater efficiency in the average of abuses of the law. In this introductory address, I would like to present to you the major changes that the proposal for the amendment of this law brings. In particular, the transfer of real powers on acquisition and termination procedures is transferred to administrative units. Next. The Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in the procedures for obtaining citizenship, act as the supervisory authority which carries out an audit in the procedures for obtaining citizenship except in the procedures for obtaining citizenship under Article 13 of the Act. In this way, central control over the acquisition of citizenship will be maintained. It is worth mentioning, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reduced backlogs from 7,886 outstanding cases at the end of 2004 to 1,594 outstanding cases on the last August of this year at the annual fall of approximately 2,000 applications. It also reduced the waiting period for the acquisition of citizenship from two years, which was the practice of the past, to only three to four months if the application is, of course, complete. And with the novel, somehow the proposer wants to shorten this time. Furthermore, the oath of respect for the free democratic constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia replaces the previous declaration that the person obtaining Slovenian citizenship agrees with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. With an oath, the importance of acquiring the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is further emphasized, as it is also reflected in the respect of the individual for the constitutional democratic order of our country. Exemption from the condition of termination of current citizenship for nationals of those EU Member States who, subject to the condition of reciprocity for nationals of the Republic of Slovenia applying for foreign citizenship, do not require proof of the cessation of citizenship, as I said, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. Next, an overview of the conditions of residence in the Republic of Slovenia for spouses of Slovenian citizens, for example, if the employment of the applicant or his spouse in the EU institutions is justified abroad. To avoid that, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will have to give its consent to any specific matter. The descendants of Slovenian emigrants who have moved to the Republic of Slovenia will be able to acquire citizenship regardless of their distance from their relatives. So far, it's been kind of limited by the third knee. Next, for those who have visited and successfully completed the least higher education programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the novel allows them to facilitate the conditions for obtaining citizenship, which reduces the period of continuous residence. The following are facilitated conditions for obtaining citizenship for persons of Slovenian nationality who live abroad and ask for citizenship after extraordinary naturalization. Well, the source of survival is no longer a condition. The following, more detailed and more precisely define the concepts of certain conditions for obtaining citizenship, such as actual life in the Republic of Slovenia and material and social security guaranteed. The new law also clearly specifies when a person has an established status as a foreigner and when a full-year-old person can make a declaration of notification in citizenship. Finally, it lays the basis for the establishment of a register of citizens which will keep records of persons who have acquired or ceased their citizenship while, in conjunction with other registers, reducing the response time for the possession of data to other eligible databases. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for further explanation. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite Mr. Rezman. He's not here. Mr. Ljubljejska then. On behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law deals with the area of acquisition of termination and registration of citizenship. On this basis, it could be said that this law belongs to the laws of the Republic of Slovenia and is important in terms of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, since it highlighted the initial civil body of the Republic of Slovenia at that time, and also laid the legal basis for obtaining citizenship for those permanent residents of the country who did not have the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the dissolution of the former State. The need to amend the law dictates, on the one hand, the need to amend certain provisions which create difficulties in the implementation of naturalisation procedures, i.e. to simplify and streamline procedures. At the same time, the incorporation of provisions that ensure greater effectiveness in the case of abuses of the law. If we look at the statistical data of the average annual application for Slovenian citizenship, with naturalisation there are as many as 2500 and requests for termination, which is an average of 170 per year, we also see the need to change the transfer of competence in the acquisition and termination of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal for a novelty to transfer the competence to decide on the procedures for obtaining and ceasing the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia to administrative units. The abolition of local competences itself follows a basic concept, a user of more friendly and accessible public administration services. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia do not deviate from the objectives and principles of the legislation in force and constitute a continuation of the practice so far. The following seems essential to us. The current practice of implementing the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia shows that, due to the greater legal certainty of users and consequently preventing different interpretations and uses in practice, the latter and in particular the fact that the proposed amendment gives the power to decide on actions in the procedures for obtaining and terminating the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia to administrative units. It is necessary to specify at least the indicative content of the vague legal concepts defined by the law, such as the concept of "actual life in the Republic of Slovenia" or "sustaining material and social security" and to re-establish certain solutions in the law that allowed a different interpretation. It is therefore a condition for a person between 18 and 36 years of age to be notified. The proposed amendment also eliminates non-compliance within the same age limit rule as regards notification or in relation to other rules, such as compliance with the registration regime in the home registry, compliance with migration legislation. It also seems important to us that there is also an oath of respect for the free democratic constitutional order established in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Lovtišar Bebler to present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the LDS of this law, as proposed, we cannot support it, although it contains some improvements in the simplification and rationalisation of procedures, the elimination of certain inconsistencies within the same regulation, such as the age limit for notification and the elimination of non-compliance with other rules. However, other proposed solutions are unnecessary or even unacceptable. However, the reasons for them are unconvincing. For instance. Nationality will be decided after the administrative unit in which the person has permanent or temporary residence. It used to be the Ministry of the Interior. The transfer of powers is intended to defend the concept of territorial deconcentration of the state administration. However, the new arrangement will allow officials in administrative units to face entirely new responsibilities. The law, however, gives administrative units 9 months to prepare for these new duties. But does not the transfer of powers to administrative units also mean the possibility that citizens should play an important role in their decision-making, such as in relationships and acquaintances? However, any positive decision of the administrative unit should be submitted to the Ministry of the Interior for audit in the light of the solutions proposed. The person shall become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia on the date on which the decision of the administrative unit is given the consent of the Ministry. So, will the Ministry of the Interior still, in fact, still decide on all the nationals granted as an audit or as an appeal body? What, then, is the point of transferring real powers to administrative units in the process of acquiring and ceasing the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia? The proposer advocates such arrangements if they are to control and control the legality of the proceedings carried out and refuses to interfere with the independence of administrative units. A citizenship certificate will be issued by any administrative unit in Slovenia, formerly the local administrative unit of permanent residence. The proposal provides a more precise definition of terms, such as ten-year stay in Slovenia and the necessary means of survival, which are exacerbated. The conditions regarding punishment are also tightened, and the applicant for citizenship is rejected if he has been sentenced to imprisonment for more than three months before one year if he has been convicted in the country of which he is a citizen or in Slovenia. The applicant shall also be rejected if he has been sentenced to a probationary prison term of one year. Previously, there has been no such condition. It is not clear whether the act must be a crime under the rules of the Republic of Slovenia, under the rules of the State of which it is a national, under the rules of both countries or not at all. For example, anyone who publicly disgraces the flag of a foreign country shall be punished with a fine or imprisonment of up to one year. It is not clear in which country the applicant had to be convicted, or in the Republic of Slovenia, in the country of which he is a citizen, in a third country or it is not important at all. The bill does not recognise the possibility of resocialisation of former convicts who have already been sentenced to prison or who are exacerbated by conditions. The category where a prison sentence of more than three months may be imposed includes, for example, the offences of minor injury, participation in a beating, infringement of copyright, regret, slander, offences against road safety and so on. The conditions regarding the duration of the marriage are tightened. The marriage must last at least three years, two years ago. This is supposed to be a fictitious marriage. However, the Ministry of the Interior does not have data on how many such links have indeed been concluded. The proposal, however, facilitates conditions for exceptional naturalization for Slovenians around the world. It is about foreigners, natives and emigrants of Slovenian descent. They do not have to meet the conditions of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the status of foreign nationals. They do not need to have a sustained source of survival at a level that ensures material and social security. They do not need to have a tax settlement if they are not liable to pay taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal shall bring an extension of the deadlines for the applicant if the country of origin is delaying the issue of citizenship leave. So far, it has been sufficient for the applicant to renounce foreign citizenship if he acquires the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, the news is also that new citizens will have to swear to the state. As far as we have heard from the press conference of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Matei did not wish to read this statement or an oath to you at a press request, but I should read it to you: "I hereby declare allegiance to my new home country," must probably be "his" new homeland, "the Republic of Slovenia and I pledge to respect the free, democratic constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia," I do not know what this democratic constitutional order could be as free, "the values and principles of freedom and democracy, and that I will fulfil my duties and obligations as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. I swear that I will not act and support actions against the free and democratic constitutional order or the existence of the Republic of Slovenia and that I will not unlawfully endanger the organs of the Republic of Slovenia or the representatives of those bodies. I swear I will not support actions against the interests of the Republic of Slovenia by using violence or preparatory acts to use violence." We believe that this is an unnecessary form that is completely inappropriate and unmodern for a modern European country if you want to. In addition, it is bad text, for weeds, because if you swear to constitutional order, it is clear that you cannot support any action against the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, let alone support the use of violence. In short, the author of this text, from this author of this text, would not promise even the simplest verses of the Alpine jumper. So the LDS can't support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Potč has the following word on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! The Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia has recently been amended and supplemented, partly because of the necessary, and sometimes because of the less necessary and necessary corrections. This time, too, it would be difficult to say that all the proposals prepared are appropriate and those that we or we think are not, we will try to amend them in a second reading. In principle, however, we do not oppose the law because it brings some novelties that are probably useful and necessary, this is a relief in obtaining Slovenian citizenship for EU citizens. This should probably be arranged for persons who have completed at least higher education studies in Slovenia. This is probably useful and also useful to Slovenians, natives and emigrants of Slovenian descent, which is therefore the result of the adopted law and would be difficult after we have practically unanimously accepted it, but we have not regulated it now. However, it is good to say that the law also has some exacerbation of conditions which I do not know whether they are absolutely necessary or not, as regards the provision of material conditions, the right conditions for survival, are comments or changes are more formulational than anything else and I do not know why there are needs. Indeed, there are greater exacerbations regarding punishment and the extension of the duration of the marriage as a condition for obtaining citizenship, which we do not think is necessary and necessary. And the last. We, too, have been paying attention to the proposal for an oath, for two reasons, for the first time, whether a change of the oath's loyalty is absolutely necessary, and for the second time what this content is. With regard to the need for change, we believe that this is not an issue that should be fully broken by spears, although it would be interesting for the government to tell us how these things are regulated in the countries of the European Union. Since she didn't tell us this, we went to see for ourselves and we can inform the government that 13 of the 25 countries of the European Union do not have any oaths. Since the 15th, to say the previous members, before the last reception, there has been no oath of 10 of them. This means that it is not exactly a perfect custom for all the countries of the European Union to have an oath. But it is true that he has these 12 oaths, and we went to look at the contents of these oaths. I hope that this went to the Ministry's representatives and that they will find that, indeed, with the ornaments decorated, I would say, with a positive request and a negative ban on the same content defined, you could say that there is no "naked" oath by any means any state. I would be very serious to ask that we do not make unnecessary debates in this way, because the majority of the countries in the oath only require loyalty and loyalty to their constitutional and legal arrangements to the State or Republic, and where this is also a monarchy, Spain and Great Britain also to the King and Queen. Generally speaking, the oath here ceases, perhaps even in the United Kingdom, Greece and the Czech Republic, about the fulfilment of civil duties, loyalty and whatnot, but here again is the end. Just as the oath in the proposal is prepared for us, where there is indeed a decorative, free, democratic constitutional order that we must respect our constitutional order. Thank God he's free and democratic, I guess I don't know who we should stress that for. The values and principles of freedom of democracy, I believe, are an integral part of our constitutional order and if we promise to respect constitutional order, then we will certainly respect the values and principles of freedom and democracy. Then I swear later that I will not act and support actions against a free, democratic constitutional order. Now, I would understand that if he promised and swore that he would respect him, that he would not act against the Republic of Slovenia or against the Republic of Slovenia, that he would not unlawfully threaten the Republic of Slovenia or its representatives and authorities. That's what I'd say, things that require serious thought. We are also pleased to draw our conclusions if the Ministry does not make them available, but I suppose they have also examined how this is regulated in the EU Member States and will find that they have only slightly exaggerated with their proposal and that if we together decide to swear it will be the one who is normal and who demands respect and loyalty to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and perhaps to the serious fulfilment of our duties and obligations, which is no longer necessary to swear. If we look at the oaths made under the Constitution by ministers and the President of the State, then we would see that there is much less to which they swear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of colleague Kucler Dolinar on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members. In New Slovenia, when we examined the law, we gave him an initial assessment that the changes that are being updated before us today in this first reading of the law remove the vague notions and facilitate the conditions for obtaining citizenship for some groups of people. In the context of more accessible and more friendly administrative services, real competence is transferred from the Ministry to administrative units, which certainly brings people closer to it. This means that applications will be accepted and decided by administrative units and the Ministry of the Interior will carry out a review of decisions. In accordance with the electronic management of the home registry and the register of the population, an electronic register of citizenship is also established. On the one hand, this will relieve persons working in this area when entering data. On the other hand, what is even more important is the establishment of the necessary requirements for the transfer of powers to administrative units. From the point of view of demographic issues, however, unlike our LDS colleagues, it seems extremely important that we also have a sensitive relationship on this issue in relation to all Slovenians living outside the borders of Slovenia, i.e. outside the matrix. And from the point of view of the acquisition of citizenship of Slovenians living in neighbouring countries, it seems important to us that the condition of knowledge of Slovenian language is met if a person has completed primary or secondary school with Slovenian learning language in areas where members of the indigenous Slovenian national community live in neighbouring countries. We also support the proposal that one of the conditions for obtaining citizenship is the physical presence of a person and that there is a permanent and close link between the Republic of Slovenia. An exception to the condition of continuous stay is laid down for Slovenians, natives and expatriates of Slovenian descent who claim the benefit of the country for national reasons. Above all, in all the interviews we have with Slovenians living outside the borders of Slovenia, it is most difficult to hear those who say that because of individual bureaucratic obstacles when they applied for citizenship they could not come to this. And that's extremely sensitive and they were really hurt. Therefore, we welcome these novelties of removing indeed some banal obstacles to the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship to those mentioned, namely to the Romanian Slovenes, the natives and the emigrants of the Slovenian race. Under facilitated conditions, they will now be able to apply for Slovenian citizenship, regardless of the distance of kinship. The amendment shall be introduced on the basis of a proposal by the Commission of the Slovenian National Assembly in place and throughout the world. Although national applicants must meet the condition of a permanent source of survival, these conditions for national applicants have been abolished for reasons of unequal income from certain specific countries. In order to avoid playing with regard to the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship, as demonstrated by practice, we somehow agree with the proposal contained in the law concerning the tightening of the time-limit for marriage from two years to three years so that a spouse who is not a Slovenian citizen can apply for acquisition. These are the reasons, in addition to the other gains that the law brings, high enough to support the law in the first reading and, of course, to formulate individual proposals for possible improvement during the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Preseknik next to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia is intended to improve certain provisions of the law and the corrections required by experience in the application of this law to date. The acquisition of citizenship also means the acquisition of the rights and duties that an individual has as a national of an individual country. The new law, which regulates this important area, follows the current guidelines of the law and does not, in our opinion, bring about any substantive changes that might affect the conditions of acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. The new law preserves legal certainty so far, with a more substantive explanation of the conditions for obtaining citizenship. The regulation thus far allows for certain doubts about the interpretation of individual criteria, which is not good, especially when it comes to deciding on such an important issue as obtaining or not acquiring citizenship. A more precise definition of these criteria is so important taking into account the fact that the administrative units will decide on citizenship after a new one. We also support the deconcentration of the state administration in this area in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The clear criteria are the only guarantee to ensure uniform practice in the acquisition or termination of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. The positive novelty of the proposed changes is also the abolition of local competences, which, in the example of many other areas, represents a more accessible service for the user. In addition, the law also eliminates some inconsistencies with other laws. The process of obtaining citizenship is very formal and requires proof of a variety of different facts that are a condition for obtaining it. For this reason, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the introduction of the so-called oath of respect for the free democratic constitutional order, which replaces the statement so far that the individual agrees with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. This statement, in our view, plays an important role as it gives the acquisition of citizenship some symbolism and makes it more solemn. With this oath, an individual expresses his loyalty to the Republic of Slovenia in a Slovenian way. At the time of reading this oath, another question arises, which is not the substance of this law, but it is certainly necessary to mention it. The civic awareness or membership of our citizens in Slovenia is not too high, so it will certainly be necessary, in particular through the school system, to pay more attention to civic education. Any oath or similar solemn declaration would certainly be welcome in any other case. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the proposed law on the basis of everything that is said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. And now I invite my colleague Zagorec to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. It may surprise some of my implementation, especially colleagues from the government coalition, but in the Slovenian National Party we will support the law. It seems to us that he brings more Mr Kokalj, because if you have hearing problems, I will repeat - we will support the law. [[...]] In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the law has more positive solutions than negative ones. It also has its negative ones that I will mention during my implementation and, of course, I expect answers from government representatives. It seems right for us to introduce stricter conditions for obtaining citizenship for applicants who have been legally convicted of crimes. We also feel that the duration of the marriage for applicants married to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is increasing, which we believe will help prevent the abuse of the conclusion of fictitious marriages. As regards the facilitation of conditions for the acquisition of citizenship by the Hungarians, it is a matter that this government has been predicting and promising for some time to people living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that in the Slovenian National Party we are in favour of making this easier for the Slovaks and the natives. As for those evictees who fled because of their false beliefs, this matter could also be different. In transferring the actual competence of decision-making in the process of acquiring and ceasing the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia from the Ministry of the Interior to administrative units, the question arises to us whether this does not mean that officials will now voluntarily share citizenship, either to neighbors or to friends from the street, and the ministry will only jump in when a complaint is made; or maybe the system dictates something else. In our belief, citizenship is a genuine link between an individual and a country, it is said, the country of the one who acquires that nationality. And the proposed amendment, which introduces the solemn oath, seems to us certainly welcome and some kind of patriotism or individual declaration that it belongs to a particular country, because here we Slovenians have been pushed somehow into our own consciousness and as far as anyone has felt patriotic, there has been so much Slovenian. And now even with the law, we tell someone that he must be a Slovenian if he decides to be a Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Once again, I ask that Members' groups ensure that those who do not wish to discuss are cancelled because it would be easier to hold a meeting, as well as others, to know when they are being prepared. Now it's almost magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! I will touch only one point of the proposed law, which is not even announced in the introduction, so of course you must understand it from the law. It helped me to see what was already mentioned at the press conference - an oath. And I was wondering if this text was still under the embargo because it was supposed to be so mysterious or something that the minister didn't want to read it. But when I got the text in my hands, it became completely clear to me why he didn't do it. If I read this text as a teacher of the Slovenian language, and if I take into account that it should be incorporated into the law at the request of the Ministry of Justice, if this is supposed to contribute to a greater ceremony, I solemnly declare that this text is almost impossible if you did not first learn it, the first time you get it in your hands, a beautiful, well-interpretative reading. The second question that comes to me is, what is the purpose of this text, and it would be good for the text preparers to consult a textual expert who is familiar with the text, in order, of course, to harmonise what the text promises, what its purpose is and to whom it should be read. This must be taken into account because I do not know under what circumstances the oath will be pronounced. Whether the person who appoints the citizen will give this text to the administrative unit or it will be before any other authorised officials or high officials, it is necessary to know everything when I express my opinion on the oath, if it is indeed a solemn act. I wouldn't want to comment on the oath I took in the National Assembly. This is not such a simple thing, so the text must be very thoughtful if we are to make a decision about it and, above all, it must be short. However, the text that we have before us is needlessly long, because what a new citizen asks to say is said in the first half in hard form and in the second half denies what he will not do. Now I don't know, sometimes I've been warned how important it is to swear by what you do, what you commit to. You must do so, and you are committed to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and forgive whether the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia is not democratic, is not free, it has already been said; but once we have done so, it must once again support the principles of freedom and democracy. So I really don't understand. Look, once he swears loyalty, the second time he swears, the third time and the fourth time he swears. I think we can do this in a much more concise and efficient way. We have indeed received a review of some of the oaths of our fellow Members and a little less of the neighbouring countries, but I must say that our text is farthest from here. Now, why must it also be sworn not to endanger the organs of the Republic of Slovenia or the representatives of those bodies? It is true that we do not have an English queen, but now we have written in law, please "to swear respect for a free democratic constitutional order which is justified in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia". What's written in this marriage is pleonasm! In one public opinion, most of the respondents are asked, but I do not remember how much more than 50% of those questioned really decided to do so and supported the oath, but we do not have any other relevant information on why the oath is really necessary, except that the Ministry of Justice believes that a solemn act must be carried out when you become a citizen, but we must think about all the circumstances and then write down carefully both in the law and in the text of the oath something that can be said with joy and should be given to those who make such an oath, including the appropriate festive mood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kokal to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u126	As already said by a fellow Member who presented the position of our parliamentary group, I support the bill because it significantly improves the opportunities for citizenship, which we know is a pretty big problem for many at this time. It has been a problem, although I know that the relevant authorities are now working in accordance with the current law to ensure that procedures are carried out as quickly as possible. I am not as Slovenianistic as my predecessor, but I do have a few questions in mind, so that I may have cleared up some of the links myself, because I have not fully studied the current law as well. And maybe I'd start from the beginning, and then I'd ask for some answers. This limit is 36 years. Does this limit mean an absolute limit for each case, or is it only a limit under the conditions set out then in the new Article 6?I believe, given that now the new Article 6 or Article 6 of this Law is very positive to the Slovenians, natives and emigrants of the Slovenian family, that if this limit is 36 years absolute, in general, it would be wise for these cases, which are written in the present Article 6 of this proposal, to increase in any way. Then I ask. It is said whether, in Article 2 of the Act amending Article 6 of the current law, paragraph 3 refers to point 2 or refers to the applicant for citizenship - with regard to termination on the basis of dismissal, waiver or withdrawal. Then I ask if the local office is meant under the administrative unit. I formally know that the local office belongs to the administrative unit. Is it possible to make a concrete contribution to the local office? Local offices are more scattered on the ground. Then I did not see or understand, according to my most important work, the time frame in which the administrative unit must solve the role. Article 27a itself clearly explains how the procedure has been followed since the case has been brought before the administrative unit, the time limit within which the authority must collect the data and then the time limit within which it is required to submit the matter to the audit. I apologize, but I ask if there is a time limit, perhaps already in the existing text of the law in which the administrative unit has to solve the role. If there is no deadline, then I think that no matter how long it takes for the internal ministry to carry out the audit, then we cannot really expect or not know how much more explodive this process will take place. And perhaps in the present 27.c. I ask why it is necessary to extend the deadline if the decision of the administrative unit is to be repealed. Since the Ministry may decide to examine the matter within two months, as it says here, give its consent or if it is unable to give its consent, it is likely that the decision of the administrative unit could be overturned within the same period. I speak in terms of reducing these time delays. These are my questions, but of course I support the general law, and I will also personally try to contribute to the best possible final version of this law in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I propose, Secretary of State, that you may finally answer all the questions, we have some debaters to make it more rational and economical if that is better. That's why I invite Dr. Gantar to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is likely that some of these amendments, which the Government proposes in the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Citizenship Act, are meaningful and useful and need to be adopted. The practice of granting citizenship dictates certain better simplifications, including perhaps any additions that would prevent any abuse or similar, there is no doubt about that. But, as usual, this government always, when proposing some urgent, reasonable and meaningful changes, always brings some other changes under the cover of these changes, which in many ways change the image of this law and after it is adopted, even if it is adopted, the image of this country, the attitude of citizens and the state in general and put us in another orbit, into another sphere. That's what's going on. The first is as far as simplification is concerned in the sense that this nationality can in fact be granted by an administrative unit or on the basis of a procedure. I personally agree with this more personally than not in this sense, because I think it makes sense to deconcentrate certain state functions, and because I think there are certain risks that are present here - science and so on - are a problem, but they can also be limited. From this point of view, I have no problem, but if it is then necessary to authorize it, to give consent to this decision to the Ministry of the Interior, then I see no real meaning and effect of these changes, to make decisions at two levels without need. Therefore, this change, which I would like to say to myself in person, seems to me to be completely pointless, meaningless in the light of the fact that the Ministry of the Interior then gives its consent to these changes, which is why I object. In fact, there are very vague articles in the provisions that define what should not happen or what this individual or individual who would apply for citizenship should not do - must not be punished. It is no longer clear by which laws of which country this crime should not occur and so on. It may be that someone has committed a crime in the country and this crime is not at all recognized by us as a crime, such as in the area of freedoms, politics or the like. So here I think the ministry gets too much discretion in hand, too much to actually decide on the basis of pure discretion. But what goes beyond that is, of course, this oath. Firstly, I do not understand why those who receive citizenship would swear at all, because once they have applied for citizenship, they have demonstrated the intention and willingness to respect, clearly, the constitutional order of this country. Secondly, this is the law of citizenship, while the oath says "I declare allegiance to my new country". Those who do not know the difference between the country and the country and the constitutional order can confuse all things between themselves. Home is not a legal category, country is an easy concept of patriotism, patriotism, it can be a political, sociological concept, it can be a concept from our everyday life. We are all in the same country, we all respect, as far as we can, this legal order and we strive to make it as much or as possible, but we may have very different views on what our country is and what our country looks like. It is therefore completely unreasonable to mix the country into such an act and, in fact, refers to the fact that the constituents of this proposal are patriots from the 19th century - patriotism, which has long gone beyond its time and space. If we were still fighting like we did in the 19th century, then I'd still understand that, so that we can even write, we're saying that we can have anything at all, then I'd understand. A self-sustaining state, which has its place in European and wider, global space, does not need the patriotism of the 19th century, and in fact it bothers me that some still live in this century. I'm just asking you not to let everyone else get in the way of this. And I must say that I imagined what it would be like if the person Pavel Gantar had somehow miraculously lost his citizenship with all that I represent, because I couldn't even sign those oaths - after what you told me yesterday, after what the Prime Minister told me! I, in the opinion of the Prime Minister, am in violation of the Slovenian interests. Yesterday you told me that the LDS are violating such freedom, the country, constitutional order and such. And we wouldn't even be able to sign this statement, or, I'll say, would they write us out on the basis of that statement? We cannot say that someone does not defend national interests or national interests, I do not know what if he disagrees with the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or with the leader of the opposition - to understand the same story. This declaration is a disgrace to a civilized, modern society based on the separation between civil society and a country based on the rule of law, political pluralism, economic freedom, etc. This statement is actually something that will put us in a circle in which I think that Slovenia no longer belongs. I don't think we need to go back to the 19th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u130	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think that the law is actually written from different times, in different ways, that it has so different desires that it is not suitable for further consideration. What's this all about? It's about a lot of categories getting mixed up here. What is actually most controversial is what I have already told about the law that we have discussed this morning, namely that it is again a Trojan horse. So the form, which seems to have a very nice and pleasant effect, talks about simplifying, rationalizing procedures, which is of course very good and we always support because we know how much trouble people have when they face administration, bureaucracy and these jobs, but at the same time or at the same time, there are different time bombs that of course only show up later. One of such matters, as already mentioned by counterpart Gantar, is certainly this romantic approach to expressing loyalty to the Republic of Slovenia as a country. I must say that even in the more despicable systems in which we lived, the oaths were made when we entered the various organisations and, of course, into the military, otherwise the citizens did not make any special oaths, and I see no reason here. Another matter that bothers me in some way is not clear what it is like to facilitate conditions of extreme naturalization for Slovenians around the world. Of course, we have spoken long and wide about this, what they do not need, what they actually have is easier than other citizens who are just here. I think that these matters should be more precisely and clearly defined, that there will be no overuse, of course, of abuse, which, of course, in some other cases we fear, of marriage and of punishment, where, of course, all the so-called political delinquents who have ever been convicted are certainly equal. For example, there can be also, of course, someone who has been convicted of the former country under Article 133, and is, for example, leaving now would like to return - of course, by this logic he will not be able to return and become a citizen, etc. Of course, the matter is worth more serious consideration and rewriting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Earlier, I had somehow realized that there had been some misunderstanding about the presentation of our position by the LDS Club as regards foreigners or Slovenians around the world. We have also supported that law, so that we do not oppose it or we approve of it by facilitating the acquisition of citizenship for Slovenians living outside our borders, but we cannot understand why they do not, for example, need to have a guaranteed permanent source of livelihood at a level that ensures material and social security, and why they do not need to have settled tax obligations if they are not liable to pay taxes in the Republic of Slovenia. This is something that is normal for our citizens as well; and as a result, we go to such laxity in marriage on the one hand, and, of course, we sharpen all possible conditions for obtaining citizenship. From this point of view, I have also opposed and objected to the introduction of this oath at all, because I think this is completely unmodern and inappropriate today. Some countries of the European Union may have this oath in force, but the question is when it was introduced and for what purpose. I am sure that the fetishisation of citizenship today is completely inappropriate, because having citizenship is something completely normal and normal, but it has already been mentioned, sometimes we had, say, our boys swore to the Yugoslav People's Army, and we know what happened then. Even when you make a marriage, I think it's still valid for you to swear loyalty, promise loyalty, and we know what's going on in your normal life. So, you may need an oath, it's probably, it makes some special sense in the Maltese Knight's Order, but for today I really don't see any need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like a word? [[No, no, ……]] You want a word? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I'm a little edgy with this system, obviously. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. Look, we are aware that this is both a provision and a rather complicated solution to the individual provisions of this law. Somehow, we agree that it may be possible to just write or call it something else. The government is aware that this is a sensitive text, but when it has included it in one of the provisions of this novel, it has said that it is extremely important, however, that it is also an extremely important moment for the foreigner, the nationalist of Slovenia. Of course, we have not touched on some form or form in the marriage, how this seal will be presented. I'm sure this will be arranged. But I think there's still enough time for this part, perhaps as controversial as some of you here present, to coordinate, because that's why it's the first, second and third reading. Look, the decision-making passed on to the administrative units, some of you commented as extremely negative. We believe that the applicants find it somehow more convenient, more accessible to the parties. Administrative units are, in fact, running procedures now, somehow, but they don't make decisions. That's the only difference. The powers fall from decision-making to administrative units. Of course, the ministry, as I said in the introduction, has reserved itself with the supervisory right to decide as well as audit as you know. The question was how low is it to let the matter go? Certainly not at the local offices, honourable Member, as he asked. However, as long as the local authority comes to accept such a role, it is incumbent upon it to decommit the administrative unit to a further resolution. The law is supposed to be amended several times. Actually, that's the way it is with all the regulations. This specific law was last amended in 2002, which is said to have not been amended in four years, and since then we have only amended Article 19 of the Law. As far as the upper limit is concerned, the Member asked why we fixed 36 years, i.e. 18-36. Look, this is a provision that has been in force since 2002 in the old law, and we haven't changed it, but it's kind of in one fit, it seems to us, in proportion to the regulation of many other countries. Article 27a - you asked about the deadlines. I must say that Article 27a does not specifically talk about deadlines, but it does mention the general deadline after the ZUP. As far as Article 6 is concerned, these conditions listed therein relate to the parents of the applicants. Is a true foundation [[...]] [[You got it.]] Furthermore, I believe that paragraph 27c has been mentioned. It's a two-month extension period for the Ministry. Look, it's basically such a fuse, if I say so, if the customer itself avoids and is not attainable, in such a different way, then it's the period that is as much after our assessment optimal and within two months, of course, the matter is decided. Transparency of taxes as a condition for admission to citizenship for foreigners. In Slovenia, if they are already here and are committed, of course they are checked. As far as there are cases of an obligation abroad, Slovenia is not actually able to obtain this information or would be extremely difficult to obtain. I think that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. However, we still have a considerable amount of time available, so I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. According to our new technology, I will still make this application if anyone wants to, they can press the tip. Thank you very much. I find two, Dimitri Kovacic, Pavel Gantar and then a representative of the government. Mr. Kovacich, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Well, even this time, as ever, I was chewed out on this lot as the first, I don't know, it looks like the computer likes me. However, as I listened to today's debate, I would say the following. In fact, I was very disturbed by the fact that some members of the opposition groups had to swear that new citizens or those who were admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia should say. In fact, I have always imagined this entry into citizenship, and I still think of it as some very important action, a very important event, this is some kind of ceremony, a festivities event, where in this procedure there is some sort of oath, some kind of solemn declaration. For significantly less important things, such as obtaining citizenship, there are festive events, celebrations at which an official declaration is made, some vows, anything. This oath is some added value to this event, to this entry into new citizenship, this is something positive, and I do not consider it burdensome or some mistreatment of the one who must make this statement. I am sure that something good, something like that, which is certainly worth saying, will happen to him at this event. The content itself, which has also been obvious, can be a matter of debate and there is no problem if we find a better formulation to do so, as we are still ahead of this legislative process. But now, just because of that, to mark it as a fundamental reservation to the support of the law, I find it very unusual. Or that this oath is supposed to be something unmodern, something completely beyond the context of today’s society. Now, man is a cultural and social being, and in this capacity important events are also to be carried out in a special form, and these events should be similar. Marriage is also a formal event, and there is also an oath, and we cannot say that this is something out of the ordinary. It was said that this oath was to be deleted or that it was not to be, but also in the conclusion of a marriage - should we end what is there? The next question is, why is it the conclusion of a marriage, why is this event, why should it even be done? And let there be promiscuity - maybe, but maybe that's what people who say they're liberal want. Then also why we have citizenship at all, and then we don't need citizenship. Why? I don't know if this is the right way to think. I also think it has been said that this statement is a disgrace to our society, I think I do not know if we are so anarchistically oriented that such a declaration can be a shame to us. So, I think we can talk about the content of this statement, about the formulation, but just so, with our left hand, with a light heart, we say that this statement is unworthy of this law and that this is an essential element of our opposition, and I find it very unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just say that according to that electronic device, Mr Kovacic, the first will be the last, the last will be the first. The electronic device already knew why I should be talking after you and not in front of you. They'll always be first and always be last. I don't know if she loves you, but whatever. The first thing is that, in fact, although the Secretary of State was kind of indeterminate, I am happy about this statement or oath to think that they are ready to study the text. I would also say that it would be good if this oath were to be renamed a declaration - it is now, I think. I do not mind that in this act - obtaining citizenship is of course not a daily matter - the one who gets it, or the one who gets it, or the one who signs a statement, some acknowledgment of what it is that will only respect the constitutional order and all these things which it is. I don't see the problem here, it's been around this form so far, I think, and this is actually some act of will finally expressed and I don't see the problem here. My problem is that this statement is an oath, and I have a problem swearing to my country. And I'm not going to repeat the difference between the country, the country, the constitutional order, the legal order, and I don't know what. I am pleased that you will be able to do so much courage that, first, and then in cooperation with others, you will consider what kind of text this statement could have, and I think it is not at all difficult to draw it up if we want to do this matter normally. I hope things go this way. I would also like to say that around Article 2 the Secretary of State simply mentioned that this condition was 36 years ago, that is true. However, since earlier these three additional conditions have not been provided for under numbers 1, 2 and 3, with a particular interest to the other because it indicates that this condition binds nationality to the family. Nationality can be attached to a generation, I agree, although everyone would have, if they were going to DNA analysis, evidence problems and so on, and would be like many others, not just us who are Slovenians. But citizenship doesn't bind to birth, that's what you need to know. And it's good to know for all of us, not just for those who think they're Slovenian all the time or that we're Slovenians. So that's a very questionable story. The other thing I'd like to mention is this. Clearly, the globalisation that is taking place is approaching cultures and civilizations, accelerating migration and raising a number of questions before the relatively dilemma of how many people let into the country, how many people who want to enable citizenship and so on. This discussion is too burdened with ideological connotations in Slovenia, as in some other countries. If we are able to bring this discussion into a real relationship and think about what we can gain by what it would mean to have a good engineer, mathematician or someone else become a citizen quickly and after a reduced process. What would it mean to us? What did the United States mean by the fact that the entire segment of the European population, from the Jewish community to others, was forced to move to the United States? What would this mean for economic, cultural and technical progress in the country? Let's ask ourselves once outside of other contexts, let's ask ourselves how we're going to pair these global issues, what this means to us, what it means to be a citizen of Slovenia, and what we can do here for others, not just ourselves. Of course we are small, of course we have to be sensitive, of course we can't accept or know what and how, but at least let's discuss what we can do. This marriage does not go completely this way, but it does try to sharpen. It enables Slovenians to acquire citizenship by birth and otherwise faster. I don't have a problem with this myself, but once again, I'm warning you, it seems to me that there's an invisible new element of claustrophobia. Let us consider if this is really good for Slovenia as a whole and for its citizens and citizens, for who we are, and for those who do not have to become. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. And the Secretary of State, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry, two Members have asked about the aggravation of the conditions and I owe the answers. And secondly, Mr Gantar spoke about the limits, namely 36, 18 and Article 6 and explained that we have introduced the novelties. I must say that the existing law essentially makes the same provisions, with the difference that they are somehow divided between two and three articles, and this novel merely unites these conditions in Article 3. That's the whole difference. As for tightening the conditions - sharpening may only be important in two segments. So the first is the limit that goes up, which is for marriage from two to three years. This is this novelty, which may also be, you could say, what kind of fuse and therefore the exclusion factor - criminal offenses. At the same time, I must explain that we mean positive legislation, not those crimes that may be committed in a country, but that our legal order of these crimes does not know. These, of course, are out of the question. The former SFRJ Kazio, paragraph 133, was also mentioned, you probably had in mind a verbal delinquency. No, that one was removed in our legislation at the time, and that's not an initial factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. As it is said, the interpretation of Article 71 and the practice is that time is divided only once in five minutes, then there are no other circles. This has been the case so far, and so be it in the future, unless we make a different decision. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. Thank you very much. I thank the representatives of the Government for their participation in this item. And we're already at 20. Agenda items - Last items of the agenda - First draft of the Civil Procedure Act, EPA 1013-IV. We have four hours and 10 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the group of 12 Members with the first-signed magi is a group of 12 Members. Milan M. Szviklom requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I welcome the representatives of the government in our midst and ask Minister Zhagar to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you a proposal for a law on municipal registrarship regulating the manner in which the duties of the municipal registrar are performed. The issue of providing local security concerns is becoming more and more topical at local level, as can be seen from official statistics, warnings from experts and NGOs working in this area. There is an increasing awareness of the need to increase the role of the local community in ensuring human security and property, and local communities want to become partners in this area. The tasks in this area and the organisational forms under the responsibility of the local community are mainly focused on traffic control and the provision of public order; otherwise, the performance of these tasks is subject to other sectoral legislation, namely the Road Safety Act, including the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which you have recently adopted in the National Assembly, and, of course, adopted acts of the municipalities themselves. The news presented by the proposal for a law on municipal government is therefore not new tasks for the municipal authorities, but it is for the first time entirely regulated by the exercise of the competence of the congregation to set up and organise and to define the work area and tasks of the municipal government. The law also lays down the conditions for the performance of the duties of authorised officials of the municipal registrar, the powers of the municipal editor, the uniform, the designation and equipment of the municipal editors, and the content and manner in which records are kept. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In particular, I would like to stress the most important solutions brought by the proposal for a law. From now on, the municipalities will be able to organize the red tape in three ways. They will be able to set up a municipal office, two or more municipalities will be able to establish an inter-ministerial office as a joint body of the municipal administration, with the state providing them with 50% of the funds for the operation of such a joint administration. However, if the municipality does not set up a municipal office or a municipal office, it shall determine by decree on the organisation and work in the field of municipal administration that the tasks of the municipal registrar shall be performed by the municipal editor as an authorised official. What is very important to me is that the proposal for a law requires that municipalities adopt a so-called municipal programme security plan that covers the safety tasks laid down by laws and municipal regulations, as well as other tasks set by the municipal council with regard to the assessment of the safety of the municipality. The implementation of the municipal security programme must be coordinated with the police programmes. Until the security programme is harmonised, the police shall exercise the authority of the municipal authorities. Through the uniform training of the editors, the state will ensure the same standard of qualification of the editors throughout the country, and a specific training programme to be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior will have to be carried out according to the law. The tasks of the municipal editors, as set out in the three sectoral laws, require, of course, appropriate powers. The importance of the Ombudsman's powers, in particular his direct relationship with the individual, requires that the persons exercising those powers fulfil the conditions which, as far as possible, ensure the legality and proportionality of the exercise of their powers and, in this context, the protection of human rights and freedoms. The proposal for a law therefore accurately assesses the way in which these powers are exercised. Dear Members and Members! I am confident that the adoption and implementation of the Law on the Municipal Government will contribute positively to greater security of the local environment, so I suggest that you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite the first to the word of Mr Pojbič on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u144	Your Honor! The main content of the proposal for a municipal law is the regulation of legal powers for the organisation of municipal offices and the basis for the formation of various types of authorised municipal officials by the name and authority or by the name and content of the various municipal administrations and criminal authorities. The Law on Road Traffic Safety and the Law on Local Self-Government also imposes on municipalities to carry out their duties. On their basis, we have regulated municipal offices as organisational units of municipal administrations organised in 23 municipalities, while in 11 there are systematic posts of municipal editors, but the municipalities find that the registries are not properly regulated, mainly because the directors do not have so-called security powers, although they are practically the same measures and means as the legislator has granted to private protection years ago. These powers are now provided for in the text of the draft law on the protection of public order and peace. The proposal foresees that they will enter into force in accordance with the Law on Municipal Government, which is an additional reason for its adoption. At the same time, the Slovenian local communities point out that the very presence of a uniformed security guard with the appropriate powers will often be preventive and in this way would significantly complement the work of the police. On the basis of a preliminary assessment of the state of public security and public order and peace at local level, the reasons for drafting the text of the proposal of the Law on Civil Society can be added to three basic categories. The first relates to a lack of adequate system-wide regulation that would allow for a coordinated assessment, management and control of security problems and processes for their regulation at horizontal and vertical level. Existing legislation, in particular the rules on the state administration system and local self-government, do not provide all the necessary conditions for public security management at both national and local levels to be coordinated and as successful as possible, which is essential for the strategic and crisis performance of public security at both levels. The second category is official estimates of the rise in violence and vandalism that threaten the safety of human life, property, public order and peace in the local community. Individual local communities have high costs at the expense of vandalism, even though statistics show the level of these costs, which may be one of the important indicators of measuring the needs for a different approach to addressing security problems, are not at local level. The third category contains all other reasons for the drafting of the text of the law, which means the deficit and non-economic governance of public security at local level, in particular the burden of the state police and the inadequate powers of municipal officials to ensure the safety of people's lives, public order and peace. The proposed law is based on the conclusion that the provision of public order and peace and in this regard the protection of the life and health and property of the inhabitants and the local community constitute the necessary and interest of both the municipalities and the countries as a whole. These are tasks which they may carry out on their own, but are inseparably linked to measures which may constitute an intervention in human rights and fundamental freedoms, which means that it is necessary to ensure that both the organisation of the services and the competence of the operators of the tasks or of the authorised persons is provided for in order to ensure the legitimate and proportionate work of the authorised officials of the municipal departments. The bill is based on the principles of the rule of law and the principle of equality before the law. At the same time, both principles allow for intervention in the principle of the independence of the municipalities by law, which establishes a legal framework for the organisation of relevant services, the competence of authorised workers and their powers in the service. The proposal for a municipal law governs the work of the governors by virtue of the principle of equality before the law, which excludes the will of the municipal editor and exceeds his authority, since, in principle, he does not allow for doubts as to the correctness of the work of the municipal editor. At the same time, the text is based on the principle of sharing responsibilities between individual holders of security tasks in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we therefore believe that the proposed law needs to be adopted and put into practice as soon as possible, so we will support the proposal for a law on municipal governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u145	My friend Pojbich, thank you for the introduction. We continue to present the views of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First, with regard to the time and time limit for the adoption of the Law on Community registrarship. The proposal for a law on municipal registrarship was sent to the procedure in July. This was also the time when the congregations could comment on it, at an extremely inappropriate time during summer vacations. Second. We are dealing with the law just before the local elections, which means that, in fact, those who know the most about the problem do not have time to engage actively in content. There was a great deal of talk about the tasks and competences of the municipal editors, and it was already said when the law on public order and peace was discussed, among other things, when the fact was strongly exposed and several times stressed the criticism that Slovenia, with certain laws, is, of course, the very proposed law on public order, creates and establishes a so-called local police, for which it is characteristic that it will have many powers in the field of police powers. Police are expected to withdraw from the immediate living environment at local level. They say that due to the increasing need to ensure security against worse forms of crime and violations of public order at national level. Of course, this withdrawal from the local level from the municipalities of citizens and citizens as well as those working in local communities has been observed for a long time and, of course, without law, the local police have not been present for quite some time. It is also true that Slovenia, we have already stressed this in the Police Act, that the largest number of officers employed per 1,000 inhabitants is, however, trying to transfer some of the police powers and tasks to the municipalities and that tasks are delegated to them, which are certainly not and will not be a match at this time. Perhaps it is a question of course whether the police are properly organised, given that there are so many police officers that we do not actually notice them at local level, something is certainly wrong with the police. Of course, there is also much to talk about in the last days of this study and analysis. However, it is certainly an inappropriate structural redeployment of police officers and, of course, a drop in this will also be the fact that the police, of course, believe that part of these powers will be placed at the local level, will only take more time to deal with so-called country-specific stories. In the LDS, we do not agree with this and we will also oppose the bill because ensuring public order and peace is an important function of the state, which must be provided by the police. At this point, the municipalities are charged with tasks they will not be able to perform. Many congregations have also provided very serious warnings regarding these new assignments. In doing so, it must be said that the municipalities do not have adequate personnel or adequate financial resources at this time, as all these services will need to be provided with equipment, premises, vehicles, clothing, in short, these costs will be extremely high for the municipalities. The law does not explicitly state whether the municipalities will be reimbursed by the State. Finally, given that there are 210 municipalities in Slovenia, it will certainly be necessary to work at the level of local communities, according to my assessment of at least 100 new people. Nor does this bill explicitly represent this cost. Of course, because the police have problems and because they are very closely monitored at national level for the increase in employment, this issue will be hidden through the municipalities, with particular emphasis being placed on the lack of adequate means for the municipalities to exercise the powers of this law. And, Minister Žagar, this will be the first law so far - I must say that you have earned all the praise, because you have really defended the congregations against the new powers and powers they are supposed to be entrusted with - this will be the first law where you, as a service for local self-government after my assessment, went to the cans of the Ministry of Home Affairs. And it is sad that today you and your ministry are advocating a totally inappropriate solution that will also bring great financial obligations to the congregations. The law is clear, once again I stress that if national powers are transferred to the municipalities - and public order and peace is State jurisdiction, in the role of police - then the state must transfer and provide municipalities with adequate additional financial resources. Do not tell me that this will be provided in a package, for it will be very difficult to determine what is within that package of appropriate spending exactly the percentage that the congregations are supposed to receive for it. And there's no explicit reference to that. Similarly, the congregations should be independent in the performance of their duties, so the law speaks, and so does the Constitution. The law, however, introduces and has a whole range of traps, in my opinion, and vaguely divided tasks and roles, and to say very harshly and most critically, even more so, the congregations directly subjugate the authorities. The individual articles of the law show this because the municipalities will become subordinated to the police and the Ministry of Home Affairs, as the security programme will have to be aligned with the police or the ministry in accordance with the law. Thus, each municipality will coordinate the municipal security programme with the Ministry, and municipal officials, in accordance with one of the articles of law, are obliged to act in their work according to the instructions of the police. This is an explicit violation of the law on local self-government, which speaks of the fact that the congregation is independent in its work and I speak and stress this because this law has a key weakness in its vague and vague determination of why someone is in charge, what is the responsibility of the congregation, and what is the responsibility of the police. And when specific situations arise in the style of Lipa, where today the mayor goes to ask what the mayor is guilty of in the case of Lipa, where it is not written that the municipality actually has no jurisdiction in this area, but still prays in front of the mayor of Žagar, there will be on this segment, on the segment of public order and peace, and on the security segment that this law brings with all authority, when the editors actually receive a number of very dangerous powers that are dangerous in narration, there will be extreme situations where citizens and citizens are just taking and expecting action, the police will withdraw and, of course, I am convinced that many mayors and mayors will be in extremely unpleasant situations, as they will have to, because they are significantly closer to the criticism of the people on the ground, but not the police, when they are also responsible for many things that are not responsible and will have to do so. With regard to the law, I also point to the following dilemmas. As soon as the mandate is given, as well as jurisdiction in the field of public order and security for the congregations, they will insist that the congregations also begin to do so. This will be the time immediately after the elections, and people will expect these things to begin to be regulated now. The municipalities have no personnel, they have inadequate staff and for the third time, these personnel in Slovenia are lacking. Everyone's gonna have to go new to education. Before we establish all these options, spaces, equipment, clothing, coercive resources and all the more, I think it will be quite a good time, especially given how long it has been, let's say that small congregations have been able to establish, say, some common municipal authorities and prepare everything appropriate so that these authorities can operate. In our immediate vicinity, you have also been on a visit to the municipality of Trzin, where several municipalities together have made a municipal inspectorate, encounter incredible problems in common accounts, in jurisdiction, in who performs and performs functions in the field of labour relations and so on. Criticism will be directed at the municipalities, and in this case I believe that the police are missing here today, and it is sad that only you will defend this law, which has already elegantly withdrawn and is no longer in this segment. Of course, without it, it has become alienated from local levels, inactive and ineffective. We are faced with this in fact every day at the local level, when the mayors and the mayors with the police need to be negotiated, asked and begged to be more on the ground. It's not their fault, it's not the police unit's fault at individual stations, they don't have people, they don't have people, they don't have real will, as they showed in the poll, and it's not the right will to do these things that are in the function of the congregations. Municipal officials will be given new and extensive powers that will extend to extremely sensitive areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but they have at work by law, if you look at the law, only physical force is available as a means of enforcement, I quote the law and the gas dispenser and the means of locking and tying. Personally, I must say that I am pleased that in November I will no longer be the mayor, because I do not know with what responsibility the mayors, who will be responsible for this matter, will send municipal officials to the field with a disperser to the extremely critical situations that the law will allow them, and what can happen in this area. Last but not least, I have been taught by experts, today there are no police types, that the police have a whole system of how it works, I will say, in terms of defence, when something starts to happen, it may become dangerous for police officers, in fact, there are specific rules and organisations for how to act in these cases. Most municipalities have 5,000 people, which means they will have one editor. Whom will this ruler turn to, who will come to his aid, who will help him if he happens to be in an awkward situation, who may even point a gun at him, and he will have little sprayer and cuffs behind the belt? We have given the authority enormously, I will say, and on the other hand, we will put a completely unprotected editor in totally inappropriate situations. Even the municipal security program. That's a lot of story. What program of congregation security will congregations be able to operate? Who even remembered that? You know what a security program is in some territory? This includes even a variety of cases, from crime, traffic, public security, intervention of major events. These are all the areas I have now listed, where the congregation has nothing. Municipalities and councillors and citizens and citizens will require and expect the congregation to prepare a municipal security programme. So, perfect mixing of functions. We will certainly deal with crime in our field, and I do not know what we are going to do with saints and saints and mayors when we are going to debate these matters and things where we do not have any powers so far and beyond. Bigger events. See if the congregation has anything to do with any major gathering in the congregation? Nothing. The administrative unit issues the decision, the administrative unit meets the organiser, the police and others involved. The municipality is not invited nor to this hearing where the decision is issued. But the municipalities are obliged under this law, to adopt municipal security programmes within one year and to bring them into line with the Ministry of the Interior. I have to say that this case is worth, I'll say, one lawyer to look at where there's tails and heads. When a decree is taken in the congregation, in which we write a matter that is expected of a government authority, that body will immediately respond. Let it be another inspector, not a congregational one who is no longer a congregational one, and so he says, no, but here the congregation has nothing to do with it. Here we even have the task of interfering with our municipal security program with fields that actually have nothing to do with the congregation. And, of course, it would be enough if some of these perceptions, which the municipalities, despite the time of the summer, did not provide in relation to this law, were to prevail today, as we suggest in the LDS House of Members, and this law would not be declared suitable for further consideration, in particular because of the many harmful consequences, the blurring of jurisdiction, the complete conflict in this area, which would cause a great deal of discomfort in the field, in such a sensitive area as public order and security. The congregation's visions, I have gathered them, are as follows: the powers of the police are transferred to the municipality without the provision of sufficient resources and personnel to the municipalities; the municipal authorities are not adequately qualified to act in cases of violations of public order and peace; only police officers, editors, are qualified for the conduct or use of coercive funds. And one more thing. But the police have done a great deal of doing it, and they have done a great deal with it, because all municipal officials will have to go to training, all of them, and what is explicitly written, the cost of training is the cost of the municipalities. This means that the high police school and its staff will still make a great deal of money and in the next two years the coffin of some 300, 400 Slovenian editors will go through this training. At this point, no one is properly qualified. And no analysis of the law and the content of the law has been made so far in the present state: where are the municipalities, what have they, how many ranks, how equipped and trained? I believe that the editorial services in the municipalities at present are entirely appropriate, but are adapted to those powers that they have had so far and which have been strictly linked to matters related to the local community, not to the assumption of functions that should be fully carried out by the police. And one more comment. The law places the responsibility for security on the municipalities or mayors. I have to say this because some of you mayors, futures, are sitting in here too, and the mayors will be the appellate body on all this matter that you will accept today. So think carefully about what you will vote, because the appellate body is the mayor, which means that it will then decide on all these stacks at the second stage of the appellate body. I think it's gonna be [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Bajc, I represent the position of the Member's Club, and I would ask if you would then speak when you present this matter. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Comrade Bajc, I ask you to allow the speakers to speak for the speaker, and you will have this opportunity. I would like to take the floor by inviting Mr Bojan Kontic to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction of the law, it is certainly held that the security issue, particularly in urban centres, is exacerbated, but of course the rural area is not immune to crimes with elements of violence. Security is highly ranked in the hierarchy of values among people. Hence, they also point to all the deviations they see in their surroundings. Most of the comments or warnings are directed to vandalism, which is increasingly being initiated by individuals or groups following the example of negative movie heroes. There's definitely a drug sale in another infamous place. Retailers are getting better organized, better equipped and, unfortunately, more and more brazen, and violence is not foreign to them. The next nuisance that is most disturbing to citizens and citizens is the ban on driving on non-proprietary surfaces, whether it is motorists or drivers of personal vehicles. So the findings that something needs to be changed are certainly in place. The only question is how to change it and who to do it. The work of the police should certainly bring people closer to where problems arise. I'm thinking mainly of preventive action. Just walking a uniformed police officer across non-transport areas for a while will dissuade possible violators of traffic regulations. The presence of police officers in the vicinity of schools is also very quickly resulting in the movement of drug dealers outside the school area. Many times people find that police officers are present where this is not very necessary, but they are missing in areas that they call after their presence. The right solution would certainly be to provide additional police officers, i.e. staff completion of police stations, better technical equipment and better quality driving fleet, rather than for drug dealers to use high-class cars in their work, and for police officers to use old, worn-out and therefore dangerous vehicles. We agree that the area of municipal registries needs to be properly regulated systematically, but we fear that the proposal for a law means transferring the implementation of measures in the event of police violations to municipal registries and thereby transferring the State's responsibility in a particular part of the security issue to the mayors without having the necessary resources and appropriate staff available for the implementation of this law. The Road Safety Act and the Law on Public Order and Peace provide for new, additional powers for municipal officials. It should be pointed out that municipal registries are not adequately qualified for all actions in cases of breaches of public order and peace. Police are trained to act, police are trained to handle or use coercive means, and municipal officials are certainly not. Municipal editors already have difficulties in ensuring supervision of peaceful traffic, where they also receive physical bills and would often need the assistance or cooperation of the police. Municipal officials will not be able to implement certain measures envisaged by the proposal for a law - the detention of the perpetrator of the offence and the crime, the use of coercive means, the physical force, the means to round up and bind the gas dispenser. How will it be implemented in practice for the police to intervene when it comes from the very nature of the matter or if it so decides? We believe that the draft law should further define the relationship between the police and the municipal authorities. With regard to training of municipal editors, assistance from the Ministry of the Interior is envisaged. Of course, this aid will be paid from municipal budgets. We believe that such training will not be effective after the adjusted programme, nor is there a clear time frame for such training, nor is its content itself. We believe that the debate on the content of the proposed law without making a thorough analysis of the existing system of registries in the municipality, their equipment and skills, for the conduct of the procedures so far, the editors are professionally qualified to assess the amount of resources necessary to enable the municipalities to do what this law requires them to do. Until then, the adoption of this law in its form and content as we have it today makes no sense. An immediate visible improvement in the security problem could be achieved by the State by increasing the number of police officers and equipping them appropriately. Gradually, for what it will take a decade, as well as in the municipalities, it will establish a municipal registrar who will be properly trained and equipped to be accepted or respected by citizens in the same way or at least as the state police. Therefore, all necessary funds are also provided to municipalities that will have municipal registrarship, not just part of the funds. The proposed law merely places the responsibility for part of the security issue on the municipalities or on the mayors. The competent ministry's response to the requests of municipalities to improve security issues in certain areas and increase the presence of the police may be that the state police are burdened and that the municipalities themselves can resolve the security deficit, since they have all the legal basis in this law to ensure the improvement of security in their area. And there's one more thing. The current provision will mean that municipalities will be forced to look for ways to lure current police officers who are the only ones qualified to exercise the envisaged powers under this law. So, as a result, the police will be additionally fed. The proposal cannot therefore be supported as proposed today. The additional argument for opposition is, of course, that individual local communities will have a different order. Of course, it is not important to note that the cost of the congregations will be unevenly low. While I appreciate the personal efforts made by Minister Zhagar to try to do more in the area of security in local communities, it is likely that the Minister of the Interior will have to take part in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thanks, buddy Contic. I invite Member Martin Mikolić to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thanks, buddy Contic. I invite Member Martin Mikolić to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Well, hello to the Minister with his coworkers. The proposal for a law on municipal law concludes a multi-annual dilemma, whether or not we need a law. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we are convinced that the law of the municipality is needed. The Law on Local Self-Government by defining the original tasks and the law on road traffic protection for municipalities already imposes responsibility on both municipalities for the safe and smooth traffic of municipal roads and the adoption of appropriate rules on road safety. In addition, the Law on the Protection of Public Order and the Peace of the Congregation commissioned him to take responsibility for the security of his environment. It is also among the grounds for the adoption of the law on municipal law on offences under which municipal authorities have acquired the status of a criminal authority. The bill therefore establishes a legal framework for the organisation and performance of the tasks of the municipal authorities, for which the municipalities are already in charge of the aforementioned laws. The municipalities will decide whether to organize the editorial board as an independent service or to hire the editors in the municipal administration. According to the 2005 law on the financing of municipalities, those municipalities that will form a joint administration body will receive 50% of the co-financing of the costs of the operation of this joint body from the state budget. In carrying out the tasks, there may be an infringement of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and operators or authorised persons should also be adequately trained to carry out the duties of the municipal authorities. Single, professional training will ensure the same standard of qualification of editors throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Appropriate training, knowledge testing and periodic replenishment shall be provided. In addition to the professional examination to be carried out by any public official and the examination from criminal law, the municipal editor will also have to conduct special training in the organisation of the Slovenian police. Such training is necessary for the exercise of powers and is necessary because a self-defense officer can also use coercive means. It is interesting that the draft law does not provide for the provision of additional resources from the State budget for these purposes, as training will be provided by the police. The purpose of the law to organise for the first time in its entirety the organisation of the operation and the work area and tasks of the municipal administration will be achieved, depending on the quality of the security programme. This is where the expertise and capacity of individual municipalities, including mayors and police representatives, who are responsible for carrying out the duties of the police in each municipality, will be demonstrated, in order to establish, on the basis of an assessment of the safety of the municipality, the necessary security tasks and thus to identify the operators of these tasks. This will solve the problem of police or municipal authority. How this will work for the municipalities depends also on the proposer of the law and the departmental ministry to what extent they will advise the municipalities in the implementation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by its fellow Member, Jakob Presečnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, communities or local communities face crime and, in particular, violations of public order and peace at a micro level. Citizens of municipalities expect mayors and municipal administrations to make order and ensure the safety of citizens in this area. Of course, what does not need to be emphasized is that the jurisdiction of the congregations in these matters is limited to the level of municipal councils. Municipal officials have very limited powers in particular in the security field and cannot implement any measures granted by law to private protection. There are, therefore, several reasons for the drafting of the Law on Civil Society. In Slovenia we need an adequate system of legal regulation in this area. In addition, there has been an increase in the incidence of vandalism in recent years which threatens local people. Of course, the police are responsible for this area, but this, taking into account the increasing number of additional tasks, cannot guarantee effective protection of the lives of people and public order and peace. The law provides a legal framework for the organisation of municipal registries, lays down the basis for the adoption of municipal security programmes, which, in view of the increasing violations of public order and peace and other violations, are necessary for the effective work of the editors. They will also determine the type and scope of the tasks of the municipal editors, which is necessary in view of the different specificities and needs of individual local communities. The clearly defined powers of the editors ensure a sufficiently high level of legal certainty and prevent managers from using powers in contravention of the law. In doing so, it is particularly important to highlight the use of coercive means which are likely to be devoted to a large number of discussions. The law, however, is clear in the use of coercive means and binds them to the prevention of simultaneous unlawful attack. It is therefore a force that an individual who is not a magistrate can use in a force of force based on a criminal code. Of course, it is an authorized official, and the emphasis on simultaneous illegal assault is entirely appropriate. The law also lays down the conditions that directors must fulfil in order to be able to carry out their duties. Appropriate professional training is a prerequisite for the successful and legal work of the editors. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that a system law on municipal regulation is needed. We believe that we have a good proposal to confirm. Finally, it is a law that will make life safer in local communities and help to reduce violations of public order and peace and other areas for which municipal officials will be responsible. The authorities in the local community have the most direct contact with the field and are most aware of the problems that plague each congregation. It is our duty to enable the congregations to meet people’s expectations in the area of security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you, Member President. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Not to be heard, but this time, according to practice in the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the bill proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is our belief that the government wants to somehow impose a belief of danger on this country and introduce some kind of local police. Local police under the fact that crimes are increasing in individual local communities in the Republic of Slovenia. To date or until the adoption of this law, at least in Slovenia, we were convinced that criminal offences or the reduction in the number of criminal offences were the responsibility of the police. So someone is not doing his job, and I am very sorry, Mr Jagar, if your government colleague from the Ministry of the Interior has entrusted you with this difficult task and you will solve the problems that arise with him. It's not our fault that he's not fulfilling his orders. As far as we're concerned, you've given them 166 hours of education with gas dispensers and handcuffs in Slovenia. 166 hours, that's just enough to learn how to use this gas dispenser. If you ask me, the only weapon that I believe a city editor who is supposed to provide for well-being in his congregation, not only citizens, but also those who come to this congregation either as guests or as tourists, is a mobile card that could, if there is a serious crime and he is the first on the scene, call the number responsible for it 112. At that time, those who were to commit and solve crimes could come. As already stated by a fellow Member, the law before us is somehow subordinate to the local communities or congregations of the state. Last but not least, according to the proposal of the law, the police should also be trained by the police, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. those who are guilty of the increase in criminal offences in the Republic of Slovenia. We are confident, alone or in the Slovenian National Party, that if these police officers and our Ministry of the Interior were to carry out their tasks and not succeed, I will say, business, because we know that about 40,000 tolars will cost the education of an individual director, then the municipal editors in the form you are proposing today, as a repressive body, would simply not be necessary in an individual municipality. Finally, the municipal budgets, not the state budget, are being charged. We all come from certain municipalities, and we will contribute to these municipal budgets as we contribute to the state. Although the State is promising to reimburse or prepare a new law on the financing of municipalities in order to repay these funds to the municipalities, in the context of the proposal. Given the experience we have with this government, at least in the Slovenian National Party, I find this very difficult to believe. I believe that when we deal with this, there will be a thousand and one excuse why this money is not intended for the purposes for which you promise today, and it will be very interesting to hear the solutions that the government has drawn up today. I am also interested, and in the bill itself says that the very presence, and this is also mentioned by one of my predecessors, the very presence of a uniformed security guard works preventively. I am not quite sure that the city officials in their very beautiful red purple uniforms are acting preventively or fearfully, but I am also asking myself what will happen if these officials do not achieve a reduction in the crimes and what we will then introduce. Once there was one tendency after the introduction of the troikas, perhaps the new government, not to copy, but to perform the four. I am not sure that editors are the right address to reduce criminal offences, that this is a very flimsy excuse for not doing the work of a particular ministry in that country, so, at least in the Slovenian National Party, such a claim does not hold back. The fact is that the comments we received in the parliamentary groups by the municipalities, which do not support the bill mainly due to the burden of the municipal budget, do not believe in you how to believe then. And for me, the most pressing problem mentioned by the representatives of individual municipalities is employment. In municipalities, even according to our experiences in the Slovenian National Party, there is simply no staff to apply for city guard invitations. Then you will have to offer to make the work more attractive, more than 166 hours of education, a gas dispenser and higher powers. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group. Ambassador Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! It is the duty of the State to ensure the exercise of the right of persons to security and dignity by protecting them from acts which affect the physical and mental integrity of the individual who impedes the exercise of the rights and duties of persons, state authorities, authorities of self-government local communities and holders of public powers. Unacceptable social actions must be clearly and clearly defined and properly sanctioned. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the provision of public order and peace and security is not only an interest of state authorities but also an interest of local communities, which can respond more sensitivly to the security issue of local communities through their organisation and direction of the editorial service. The bill introduces a municipal red tape as an organisational form of ensuring public order and peace in local communities, namely that the municipalities are obliged to establish this institution and all other municipalities have, on the basis of the proposal, an optional right to assess and decide whether they need such services for the safety of people, property and for the safety of order and peace at all. Given that the proposed funding of this institution from the municipal budget, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that municipalities that do not have the statutory responsibility to establish the institution will not establish it, but we must know that we have 11 municipalities before that, so they will be obliged to set up a municipal office, and a third of the municipalities that do not have an orderly service organised to date. Following the dictates of the proposed law, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] In central congregations, police officers had to carry out all the tasks of public order and peace control to be carried out by officials. This raises the question of the usefulness of this proposed law or whether the purpose it pursues will be achieved at all. We believe that the proposal fundamentally interferes with the organisation of the municipal administration and thus further imposes financial burden on the municipal budgets. The municipality is expected to provide staff, material and other conditions to ensure the functioning of the municipality. The proposer did not provide for additional funds to the congregations that are or may establish a municipal office. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 140 that the State may delegate to the municipality individual tasks under State jurisdiction, which is certainly an area of security, order and peace, only with the prior consent of the municipality on the basis of law and which is important in relation to this proposal of law if it provides adequate financial resources for the performance of the tasks. Members of the DeSUS point out that the proposal for the law under consideration does not imply that the State would provide adequate funds for the introduction of the municipal editorial service. The Law on Community Financing also does not address such issues satisfactorily, and we hope that additional financial resources will be provided through the adoption of the new law in preparation in the DeSUS Group. The new proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities at this stage for the larger municipalities, for example Ljubljana, takes away financial resources. We believe that it is the duty of the State, in accordance with the constitutional principle, to provide the necessary financial resources to both urban and other municipalities that would choose to lead and perform editorial services. In the DeSUS Group on the delimitation of the power to manage and rule in criminal proceedings between the police and the authorities, we believe that this is unclear, insufficiently defined, which may lead to major misunderstandings, to disputes in jurisdiction, to the transfer of responsibility or even to the duplication of the conduct of proceedings. In this part, the proposal should be radically refined in terms of eliminating this impreciseness. According to our assessment, the municipal editor for the performance of the tasks entrusted to him by the proposed law, as well as the adoption of the Road Traffic Safety Act and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, must be adequately trained. Under this term, however, in our Group of Members we understand the theoretical and psychophysical competence of dealing with the devices and technical means used in our work. However, their knowledge should also be refined after certain periods of time. We therefore propose that the proposal for a law be amended accordingly. Let me also touch on the provisions on the supervision of the implementation of the law. In view of the fact that the tasks to be performed by the officers so far have been carried out and that the State is now transferring these tasks to the authorities, the State must, in addition to providing financial resources, exercise control over both the legality and the competence of the work performed. The field of municipal registrar should certainly be adequately regulated systematically. The bill before us today no doubt seeks a greater degree of security in our municipalities and thus in the country of Slovenia. While we support the proposal of the law in the DeSUS Group, we hope that, with joint strengths and with appropriate dialogue, we will only eventually adopt a law that will be consistent with the Constitution and more precisely and more specifically regulate the treatment of the security issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Order based on past applications. The first one has the word "Messenger Lucky Friend." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian National Party, as we heard at the presentation of the Group's position, we have already expressed the view that this law is essentially unnecessary and I would also like to say why it is unnecessary. Most municipalities do not support the bill, and this is essentially unacceptable because of the burden of municipal budgets. The congregations themselves are aware of this problem, and we again impose it on the congregations from a higher instance. See why it is also unacceptable for us to actually enforce this decision. In many municipalities, we have not provided functional land arrangements. In many municipalities we also do not have adequate parking spaces, which has also proved to be true in Ljubljana, when we introduce an additional repressive body, this is the city’s department, and in fact we cannot guarantee the accuracy of transport or provide sufficient public parking. They also point out that, in fact, employment is already a problem, that there are no applications for job vacancies, that it is, in some ways, a degrading job, as it used to be, an arms dealer or, I don't know, a gendarme. On the other hand, those who follow European trends can quickly find out that, by means of a technique that is essentially also available for satellite control today, I myself was present in Brussels at a panel discussion discussing satellite traffic control capabilities, the so-called Galileo programme, which will allow for both traffic control and sanctioning offenders, restricting essentially control of traffic control and toll collection of tolls, and, of course, will create a large number of policemen in our country within a decade. Today, we are introducing a new job, which we call a reddish job in the congregations, and we will find that this is irrelevant to the day after tomorrow. If we find that, in essence, the municipality does not want this and that this is essentially a repression for citizens and citizens, an additional repression, then we can quickly find that this is again an enforced solution, which we impose on the principle of voting, and that is why we oppose it in the Slovenian National Party. Just a short "schenkelkurs" as you might call it, 166-hour education and then quite a few powers that you would have, and which would essentially coincide with the powers that the police have today, so after this proposal the directors would also have a lot of powers. Let me mention just a few: the use of coercive means, the detention of the perpetrator at the crime scene and, of course, as we have already heard, we would be armed in some way. This is, of course, unacceptable and I do not believe that this will be welcomed by citizens and citizens with applause. That is why we will oppose and vote against this proposal of the Law on Municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Dushan Kumr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, two, three remarks on the edge of the debate that I listened to. Some of you will recall the debate on the law on public order and peace, where some of you have pointed out the provisions that gave the officers of police jurisdiction in that law. And today, of course, we reap the consequences of this law. So those of you who have been so vehemently supportive of this law, as it is now written, are either not consistent or at the time have not been paying attention to these things and have not taken it seriously or are thinking otherwise today. My personal opinion remains, and even now, the content of this law, as it is written, in particular this substantive, police, repressive part, points me to the fact that this law should be part of the law on police, a particular chapter which I can also call the local police because of me. Third thing. The whole approach and the consequences remind me of ten years ago when we disbanded in the country, I think three, four institutions dealing with personal property protection, and then we got two hundred and some of these over time. Today you have examples of the effectiveness of these services - robbery of the SKB, organised crime, theft and so on, not to mention these things. These are consequences that we cannot deal with today with today’s organisation. And finally a fourth, which, I admit, is a little political. The security programme, as defined now, will be remembered by some or a lot of you in here, sometimes a security political assessment and a plan based on this security political assessment. And unfortunately, I don't know if times repeat themselves or nostalgia, but mostly some things do happen through marriage texts. I would like to point out two, three things that I cannot agree with in this law. One is that, despite the fact that this is another area that we are transferring from the state level to the municipality, because we are not able at the state level to address the problems of public order and peace, I have to attract those of you who have already mentioned today to add to the burden of the municipal budget. We are transferring the powers, obligations and tasks to be performed at the state level and, of course, we are burdening the municipalities again without funds. I'm not the mayor, I'm not even a mayor, and I'm not a saint, but I'm still attracted to you. For as defined in the law itself and also in the explanation, the congregation is the one who has to provide the personnel, material and other conditions for the work of the municipal or municipal authorities. And that's why there's going to be some kind of unequal situation between cities and municipalities. Those who have money in the budget will do so, some already have it, and others, of course, do not. It has therefore ensured that where there will be no such order, the police will continue to take care of public order and peace, slightly misleading in this explanation. For the basic reason or the basis that the applicant himself wrote in the explanation of the law, why these police powers are transferred to law enforcement, is, I quote, "that the state police, due to the increasing need to ensure security against the worst forms of crime and violations of public order at national and supranational level, are objectively less present in the immediate living environment at local level", the end of the quote. Therefore, the fundamental reason for the transfer of these powers and powers of government is that the police are unable to do so. However, if there is a guarantee in those congregations where they do not have a branch office, they will be able to appeal to those congregations who will give money for editorial work and, of course, other congregations will not need it, but this is another problem that this ministry will be dealing with. I am more concerned about this problem, which I am putting forward, when it comes to the transfer of police powers and powers that can be very subtle and sensitive in specific situations in terms of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, of course, only a course or some ten-hour education of a learning nature cannot, in my opinion, suffice to allow a future editor to carry out, as stated, I think that there, I do not know in which article, the security review, when it stops me, the seizure of items, if it finds it necessary, will detain me for crimes. If all of this does not go smoothly, he will use physical coercive means to lock, tie, and so on. There are also timelines for how long he can do this to me. He can hold me for 30 minutes until the police get here. If a cop doesn't come, he'll leave me. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That's 60 minutes when you're locked in. And if a police officer doesn't get there in 60 minutes, he's got to uncuff me and let me go. But my reaction back then, me being a Styrian, can be very cruel if there's not a police officer in 60 minutes at this place. It would, of course, be useful if we were already going to this point to legislate the education programme and legally define the obligation to carry out this programme in the field of police powers. This is not a course, it can not only be 160-hour training, it must be a specially designed programme that everyone must do. Otherwise, these conditions will only be met by former or current police officers. It can even happen if the conditions are better on the line, that we will have a huge migration of the peoples from the police to the police. If, of course, the working environment, the conditions, the better wages, the police will be cut off, even more so now that they are unable to do theirs. The second problem, which I also think is not negligible, is this hierarchical relationship, which is defined in section 9 of the law, when a police officer and a police officer act together, is, of course, subordinate to a police officer. This reminds me of the current situation we have today regarding the police and the prosecution. It is also legally defined, but in conflict situations, when problems arise, when things are not solved as they should be, it is looking for the culprit who is the one for whom some procedure has not been carried out as it should be, and if he is looking for the culprit once on the police side, in other cases on the prosecution's side. This is an ongoing problem which, of course, will also have to be resolved by law. I think this is exactly where we're going in these waters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. He's not here. I give my word to Ambassador Branko Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, Mr Secretary-General, with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. However I would have assessed the debate so far, I could have found that both Members and Members of Parliament and the Minister themselves have different views on the system law, but it is still necessary to ask when, in fact, we consider the period when it was necessary and when it was necessary to do something in this area. It is certainly not the post-2004 period, but it is the period before 2004, when police officers withdrew from police stations to most municipal centres due to rationalisation and changes in the way they worked. Thus, after the police were reorganized, we received only so-called police offices in some municipalities, when police officers were stationed at certain times of the week, at certain times, in the localities of the municipalities or in the locations of previous police stations. The security situation itself in the local environment has begun to dictate the need for increasing vandalism in order for local communities to be organised in a way and in cooperation with police officers to ensure a basic order and peace, which, as has already been said, can also be combined with the law on public order and peace and the law on local self-government, but this area has also been insufficient. On the basis of an analysis of what was actually going on in our local communities, especially during the nighttime of weekends, holidays, holidays, we could find that vandals were set up to demolish sacral buildings and many other public goods, which, of course, is the local community that must know how to do that. And it seems very important to me that the competent ministry of local self-government and regional control has embarked on the composition of this system law, which I personally believe is necessary. In fact, what brings what is new is what Minister Žagar originally said. So it seems to me that today it would be premature to determine whether the system law will have 100% effects, or whether it will be necessary to find out over time that some things are not good; and it is usually that then, in time, these individual articles will also be amended. However, of course, this is not a practice to change the system law into a shorter period, but some concrete analyses and developments in this area will need to be followed. It seems a little excessive to me when we find that we do not have adequate personnel and that it will only be necessary to obtain adequate personnel on the market or through the process of additional training. However, things are not so simple and not so principled that we can say that we cannot get this staff through some systematic way of additional education, so that those who will perform this congregation service will know exactly what their duties are and what their duties are, as well as what procedures are in particular cases. Of course, these are not police officers in this sense, as we know them today, who have completely different and different powers from congregation officials. I am convinced that even here it is possible to compare this area of municipal government with the work of the community administration, and perhaps with a directorial establishment, in short, I think it is an area that is provided in some way by larger congregations themselves, but also by two or more congregations together to establish this congregationary service. The Municipal Programme Security Council, which will be able to be adopted by the municipal council under this law, is also one emphasis on the need for the municipality as a local community to take more professional care of the vandal work that occurs in certain municipalities, in some more, in others less. The training programme for all editors will go hand in hand, I believe, with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which will be able to tell candidates who will want to be further trained and also to work as municipal directors, who and what their competences are, both professionally and solely by specific task. I believe that the system law is good, that it is necessary to adopt it as soon as possible and thus to ensure and in some way to prevent vandal work in our municipalities, which are very pronounced on weekends, holidays and perhaps other days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about the first reading of the bill on municipal registrarship, which is ahead of us, a matter that I think is well prepared. It's really some new assignment of local communities, that's true, it's true that we're also going to educate people to do something new. But it is true that those who may know better the local life and the powers of the police, the current ones, and the law on the police, and what they do, and what we as municipalities would like to do in the local space, are some kind of partnership, the current police, the government in local communities. I am convinced that this law, which is now proposed to deal with one matter, is one move in a positive sense, where we could combine local forces with the current police and try those cases that are emerging today, either by peaceful traffic, so today it is not the competent current police. What about that rule of public order and peace, how about more traffic security? Certain things are not carried out or carried out by the current police. We in the local community want our citizens and our citizens to live as securely as possible, but what every mayor wants is regulated, peaceful traffic that no one is protecting today, and this seems to me to be just one of the complementarys to one common issue that we all want. The success of all this story will depend on the individual municipality, the individual mayor and, last but not least, on the individual team of people of the editors he will hire, whether they will be suitable, whether they will be exemplary or not, or whether they will be compatible not least with the current police and so on. It is true, however, that this is also likely to be an additional obligation of the local budget, probably those violations and fines will not be enough for all the material and salaries of those people in this area; they are, and this is probably a little bigger problem for small municipalities. But here's the common sense connection, integration. After all, even a clerk from another congregation may be more successful in your congregation, for the locals are more or less familiar with these things, for even a local policeman is sometimes a little embarrassed by his fellow citizens or his roommate in the bloc to punish. The options are open here. Nowhere does it say that this must be in each congregation. Those municipalities that may be larger will certainly have one advantage, one option given to them, that will benefit, where not, the police will continue under the given powers of the law, which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , led these activities that they are. [[...]] I don't have problems with the local police or the official police, things are good, successful, but I want more as mayor myself and this is the opportunity, this is the opportunity that we are given, and we say: take it or leave it. And I am sure that many congregations will take advantage of this, take advantage of it, and will also take a step further, what they want in the local space. Let's prevent, I'm sure the police leave empty cars by the road, that's some kind of prevention. We "bring" when we get past an empty car by the side of the road. If a clerk is to be placed somewhere in a public place, in a parking lot, believe that driver or driver will not park where the wheelchair is. I think there's gonna be an automatic Bremza, there's a waiter here, there's a desk here, I'm not parking. And so on, on the vegetables and so on. It works psychologically on us, drivers, on us, who sometimes break something in our own way. And if the editors are active, working, and expertly qualified, and believe me, we will find something in each congregation that we can do, and I am sure that this is a big step forward. Of course, but everything's not perfect, for sure. As mayor, I normally expect the municipality to provide resources for the implementation of this order in the municipality. Normally, that's what I think. There are options, there are realities and there are possibilities. But I do know that would be the most ideal thing. And it happens to us a lot, and in the past it was that she didn't have a family assistant. [[?]] I'll do it again, bring it to the local community, and you finance it. Of course it's not fair, it's not right. And it would be good to see that there is some synergy here between state resources and those congregations that will either connect or establish these services for the benefit of the common good, both the official police and the local government, for the common good. We have many cases that are not covered today, which are black foxes, and it is right to make it possible for the congregations to do so by means of this law. However, I am in favour of the fact that, during the first hearing, there is likely to be a second and so forth, we will find something even better to perhaps make things right through the debate. That's why it's a state-level procedure after all. Perhaps the government is not the wisest, perhaps there are some other Members here. Last but not least from the local environment, as we have heard the case today, I don't know, colleague Orazmova, who probably has a story of her own, we have our own, but in Prekmurje they probably have their own story about this marriage again. And I am sure that if this law is well prepared to be acceptable, it will certainly have positive effects in the local communities of Slovenian municipalities. But true, 210 congregations, 210 stories in this area, each has something of its own and each has its own view. However, it is perfectly clear that we are the mayors responsible for everything that is going on in the municipality. If someone doesn't get a building permit in the municipality, who's to blame, the mayor. If someone was driving too fast, he was punished for the crime, who's to blame - the mayor. If someone on the geodetic board didn't get a successful resolution procedure, it's the mayor's fault. For there are many citizens who do not separate what is local jurisdiction, what is state jurisdiction, and what is an administrative unit. And believe me, even those who went to school don't know if it's in the municipal building because it's the same building for the administrative unit and the local community, most people don't know what's in the mayor's jurisdiction, what's in charge of the chief and the state. We're going to spend a little more time separating these things and making people get used to it. Therefore, it is good for both authorities to cooperate well, then there is no problem for the mayor. But where it's not, it must be a lot harder. Last but not least, in my deep conviction, this law is a well-prepared basis for first reading, to go through to add a good, positive experience from this debate. This is what the three responsible in this ministry will listen to, and I am sure that the law will be a good basis for further consideration and that we will be able to accept it as soon as possible, in the interests of those congregations that want more order and peace and, above all, order in their local space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. At the outset, I would like to say that I am in favour of the proposal for a law on municipal registrarship, as we have before us. I think it opens up quite an opportunity for mayors and municipal councils to manage certain things in their environment. But it is as always when we talk about legislation concerning local self-government; a problem that arises because the municipalities are very different in scope, by population number, by problem, and I think this is a key problem. From the experience I have with law enforcement, I can say that, through this law, certain things can be substantially better handled than they have been so far. In fact, until now, the congregation editor was only responsible for the tranquillity of traffic, since he was given these powers by the road traffic law. This bill also allows the editor we have appointed to implement municipal decrees in all other areas, both in a preventive sense and in a Kurat. The powers afforded by this law in the sense of more police determination of matters are, however, a matter of the individual community, how, in its internal act, the jurisdiction of the municipal authorities, the competence of its inspectorate, and how it achieves cooperation with, last but not least, police structures in its area. This is permitted by law, but it is not necessary for this to be presented in the manner previously presented by major colleagues. The only thing we talk about all the time is this kind of police action by the editor, and the whole other palette that this law allows is the supervision of the decrees that the congregations make. Those who are more in tourist areas know what this means for implementation. Problems arose when the police segment abandoned the implementation of municipal decrees or municipal regulations and essentially created an empty space. In fact, the editors we have appointed so far were able to carry out certain things without authorization. And the experience of the municipalities that have introduced, again, I speak more about tourist areas, can confirm that only through this way certain things have been regulated, even though none of the legislation so far has been legally covered. I would definitely support this marriage. I think there are certain things in the fabric itself that are not properly arranged. I think it's the first time he's being treated right now to draw attention to individual problems and to get rid of them. However, I absolutely support that, through this law, it is possible for local communities to actually monitor and implement part of their decisions and regulations in life.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you. We continue on the basis of the system of reporting. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. The law that we are considering today, I think, is very necessary, because the situation as it appears in our environment, in our congregations, dictates that we adopt such a law. At the time of the adoption of the law on the protection of public order and peace, there was a lot of talk about our situation. And I see precisely this reason that this law must be adopted. What the introduction of the law already says is: the rise in vandalism, crime, youth violence, and so on. We know the powers of the police at the moment, but we know how the local communities are working and fighting to reach a police station in their place or in their community. I think that I have also heard from a number of Members of this National Assembly about such urgent needs to bring a police station to their place. I don't think we can solve these things just by repressing them. However, it is right for everyone and for themselves to ask what else we can do in other areas in order to avoid the need for such municipal editorial services as well as police services. Everyone in their own environment, I'll say, as a father in their own family, can help to make it less. It is true, however, that it is necessary to completely eliminate and suppress this, but we simply cannot. But if we all do such a crime, parking when there are no parking places, and we are in a hurry to leave the car in inappropriate places, I must also personally say that I am angry with the director many times if it happens that he leaves me a notice of the offence and also deepens me. With regard to the concerns that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Too repressive and to give the law too much power to these municipal officials, I must personally say that I do not look at the matter this way, but I do take this red tape as an extended hand of our police. [[...]] However, I must say that, personally, I also agree that it is actually a matter of transferring powers from country to local community, saying that the country is going somewhere and is leaving it to local communities. However, it is good that in the law of the local community they have the opportunity, more opportunities, to establish their civil service, or to connect with other congregations, with the inter-ministerial service, and in this way the state will also cover half of their costs. I will say that, where things have been very critical, the congregations have set up such a red tape service. In the case of Velenje, which is closest to my duty station, I must say that things have improved significantly since this editorial service worked, rather than before. However, I am sure that time will also show what shortcomings of this law and that a change of law will also be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you. Dr. Pavlich's Member of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you, Comrade Vice President, for your word. God forbid he should compete with fellow mayors and mayors and other candidates in local elections and waste valuable time. So I'm going to be brief and scurvy, and I'm going to be reddish to talk about the legal and ethical dilemmas that occur in this present law, especially in terms of where it's some way of introducing local police or washing the hands of the police before serious problems. I myself would have dealt with the problem by trying to find a solution within the police and reintroduce such policemen or sometimes we called militias who have existed for days, who people knew, who have been with them for decades in a small place, not only in Butala, even elsewhere, and have had significantly more success than now when the first - cops are too small, the second - they are too quickly replaced and do not play the role they should play. No, no, no. Today I would like to speak on behalf of the Piran Congregation, which has specific comments on the proposal for a law, in particular from the point of view mentioned today. First, with regard to excessive and so-called non-transferable financial burdens; and secondly, with regard to human resources problems. And let me say a few words about each of these two things. The municipalities will be difficult or some will not be able to bear this additional financial burden at all, since the law does not provide additional funds or is a financial burden, as our congregation states, the establishment of redundancies or the transformation of existing ones limited to the first year alone. The municipality of Piran is similar to Bovec and some others, Izola, we will hear, the tourist municipality and the tourist season on our part of Slovenia lasts so nearly half a year, six months. On the basis of a proposal for a law, the municipality of Piran must increase the number of editors from the existing four to at least 12. This, of course, may not even be such a problem if people were interested in such a profession. Recently, the congregation has called for a job as a director, to which no one has yet applied for a long time, but we will need more tomorrow than or at least 12. That's a problem we can't keep our eyes closed. Second problem. The law does not provide special detention facilities, but on the other hand it says that the perpetrators should be held back if I can caricature at the crime scene. The municipality of Piran as a tourist municipality cannot do this again. It means we should have special premises based on the law, and we should have a specialized vehicle. This is totally unrealistic, and if the law is adopted in such a form, I hope that some articles can still be amended or can be changed, and that the applicant will listen to local communities. After all, this law is designed for them to remedy these shortcomings. And last but not least, training the editors. Part of the training burden is also on the shoulders of local communities, in the congregation and, of course, I do not need to stress in particular that this additional financial burden, which at least our congregation, where I live, Piran, will not be able to. Here are some other comments to mention only one to which I personally have concerns, for example, in the congregation, they say that it would make sense as a means to retain, quote, "also a stick that would have an external psychological effect", the end of the quote. As it is said, this is a comment you will or will not take into account. Personally, I have a generally negative opinion about coercive means, and in this case I do not think it is necessary. In short, on behalf of the municipality of Piran, I ask that these comments be taken into account and that if the law is already adopted, such as to at least partially correct and improve the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you, colleague Pavlich. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mag. John Kramberger. He's not in the hall. There's a MEP with a word. Tomaž Strabe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We've been wanting to have a local police force for quite some time following the American example, where there's no other police, but there's only local police. In this law on municipal law, we get some kind of municipal officials, who also take over some of the police functions or at least security guards, if not police officers. It is true and I fully understand that, due to other tasks and priorities, the police are not able to exercise and prevent violations at the local level, on local roads, on greenery, on public surfaces, etc. The solution in this law, if it were made in a way to transform municipal registrarism into some kind of security guard or even police officer and to replace existing municipal officials who are in no way qualified for some of the actions envisaged by this law, would in fact be fully acceptable and possibly even achieve this effect. I now do not know the details of the circumstances of this law, but in order to be able to realize the idea of this law, it would be necessary to leave some powers to better qualified companies if you want to. In this context, the Constitution will change that it is possible to transfer certain administrative or public functions with the power to perform these services as private enterprises, and in this way I see one way to solve the problem. Having municipal officials as envisioned by the concept of law, or how to solve the financial problem of providing or training such persons who are supposed to carry out physical measures in certain cases in order to achieve what they are empowered to do. We certainly know that the culture of both drivers and certain municipalities, when they use public areas, especially in transport, is such that we are forced by physical measures and by the great cost and non-voluntaryness of all those who respect it, to ensure at least minimum public safety, I mean here primarily on transport, public transport, when we try to reach speed limits with our humps, because we know that with other measures and with the presence of police, this is not easy or we all avoid it in some way. I wouldn't be talking about steady traffic right now. In fact, this law requires quite a change in skills and even the types of people who would be municipal officials if they really wanted to be able to act almost at the border of trained police officers. But we do know that this is what we want in the congregations, and in some ways we should achieve it, perhaps a little late. For here the very education of all of us is not yet so that we respect the rules, and in fact it will be necessary in some way for the current situation to cut us down drastically in the way that we are capable of criminal policy and detection of offenders and their punishment to achieve public order and peace. Personally, I have been desiring for quite some time that certain more difficult tasks could be passed on to better qualified companies, businesses, security agencies and so on, which, because of the nature of the work they are doing for other partners, may also be carried out at the same time by some of these functions. And perhaps the solution is that what is envisaged in this law and is difficult to achieve without major financial and human resources changes is one of the solutions. In fact, I welcome such a way that we may come slowly to the municipal police, but I am not thinking now of this grave importance of a policeman, but of establishing with the municipal police some relationship between people and public affairs that are taking place. We know there's been a massive violation here. Many things where police are difficult to deal with, and even after this concept, municipal officials will be difficult, even unable or should not, are all left in fact almost or crimes that are criminal, or acts that limit crime, and these municipal officials, if they do not do so already, are not real cops, municipal cops, but should have a very close link with the police, otherwise only informing the police that is fully monitoring and controlling certain or possible or actually criminal acts already committed. However, in order for this marriage or congregation officials, the cops, I prefer to call them cops, under the current circumstances, to guarantee even under this law, but of course it is not possible. The ultimate goal should be to have the municipal police in the true sense of the word, of course without municipal prisons as well as in America, but to achieve such a level of compliance with regulations, municipal regulations and others, in order to be effective. I think that the difficulty could be that we really leave more difficult tasks or at least leave actions to either the police or trained specialised firms, so that such a mandate can be given through a transparent procedure to external contractors if you wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u175	The bill is a logical continuation of the law on the protection of public order and peace that we have adopted and, on the other hand, an expression of the need for the lives of local communities. We know that the legal basis for organising municipal registrarship is already in the existing legislation, which has already been mentioned today, but of course several issues have been raised, which have already been raised. Most importantly, however, it seems to me that it is important that the law is on the table, that the proposal is on the table and that the matter has started to be systematically dealt with. However, I think that the municipal order, if I put it simply, is also one of the forms of the exercise of the autonomy of local communities in accordance with both the Constitution and the international treaties. I think that the matter must be taken seriously, with a view to paying attention to where the border between the State and the congregation is, if I simply say so. But because we are running into a very specific question, where is the border between the police and the municipal authorities? This too has been said today, especially when it comes to the participation of the congregations in the preparation of this law. I do not know history, but I think that such a law should be as much coordinated as possible with the congregations, since some congregations have experience in the implementation of the congregation’s order, since some or all of the congregations have problems in providing primarily order and peace for the end of the week. This is a particular issue which, in my opinion, is not yet resolved in this proposal, because we know that even police units are the biggest, most numerous weak problem, and even in the case of the establishment of municipal departments under this law, it will probably be the same problem from a cost perspective that, just at that time, is said to be the afternoon, night and time when wage tariffs are slightly higher, it will be difficult to ensure red tape. Here, it seems to me that one of the questions that will have to be addressed during the debate is whether or not to determine in what formal way this matter could be resolved, with what kind of decision, of course, and, on the other hand, it does relate to municipal finances. And I think we need to find one solution, as I said before, with the congregations in this area. I am also being asked the question of the use of coercive resources. I am not sure that the equipment referred to is sufficient and ensures the exercise of these coercive resources or that it ensures the exercise of all the powers it has. I have already discussed this on a second occasion to consider whether this gas dispenser is actually capable of carrying out all the measures or all the powers it has in accordance with Article 10. Article 6 has been repeatedly exposed today, I feel very general in the performance of duties and powers, and municipal officials are working with police officers. If municipal radars carry out tasks with police officers, they are obliged to follow the direction of a police officer or a police officer. The case sounds logical, but it needs to be legally well justified at this level, as I said earlier, where the autonomy of local authorities ends and where the power of state authority begins. I certainly think that cooperation with the police is necessary, but it must be addressed as precisely as possible before implementation. I was myself years ago when I was still mayor, witnessing an interesting event when I told the former Minister of the Interior if the police did not act - at that time there were a lot of break-ins in the field of our congregation - that we would set up a local police force. A little joke, a little for real. But the minister got mad because he thought I was serious. Yeah, what are you gonna do if that cop of yours is gonna have to shoot, and then what are you gonna do? But I just wanted to encourage thinking, as already mentioned today, that the police may have really gone too far off the field, especially for the end of the week. I think that this also falls within the context of the reflection of this law, which is not the main substance of the law, but if we fail to ensure better order and peace, then these costs, which will be relatively high, will not justify their purpose. Otherwise, as I have already said, I think the main thing is that it started with a systematic approach, and one of the famous old Slovenian politicians said, "The only art is, it has to be started".
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mitja Slavinc. He's not in the hall. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would go to the most banal thing that usually occurs in the handling of new laws, and this is an assessment of the financial implications, where the Second Public Finance chapter states that the annual salary of the municipal director without an allowance at work is approximately 2.8 million tolars. I checked the salaries of our editors in Isola today, we have two levels, one is 2.4 coefficient and one is 2.5 coefficient. This 2.5 coefficient has a gross salary of more than 2.8 million tolars, so to say that given the fact that a supplement to the exercise of powers under Article 10 of the Act will also have to be provided, it does not have to be calculated that this salary will be at least 10% higher, I think it must be that much. In addition, since the municipal editorial service that I would tell her in relation to the contents of this law, however, the municipal police should be aware that this municipal police will in fact carry out a large part of the tasks and powers that are now being exercised by police officers involved in the management of police environments. Indeed, as it all appears, what several colleagues have already said before is in this law for the transfer of police powers to local communities, is said to be State police powers in the local community - without any coverage of these costs. It is clear that this law was prepared and dealt with within the Government before a proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities was drawn up and that the law on the financing of municipalities did not provide that a specific number of red tape officers or municipal police officers would be required to enforce this law. We have an inspection chief, as we call him, who is also the chairman or chief of directors at the same time, and five editors. Hardly, in fact, during the period when we have a slightly larger event dealing with other matters, for example, do not control the peaceful traffic, do not deal with the unsuspecting owners of dogs and their behaviour in the environment, do not deal with wild waste disposal because they have to deal with all other things during the tourist season, in particular with peaceful transport. When they are given basic authority, I will say here, that which is why my colleagues are, I have never been particularly excited about having a municipal police force, but some of my colleagues have been very passionate about the position that the municipalities should have their own police, especially the city council, but I think they have never thought about covering the area of public order and peace with their city police. For the field of public order and peace is an area in which the rulers of public order and peace bear the head for sale. I must say that it is already that the law states what happens if one of the perpetrators concerned is injured during a trial or dead, to think about what might happen to the warden on the other hand. The coaching, skill, equipment of the director for such nature of work means that we must get to the municipality for municipal editors in the equation of municipal police officers, trained, trained police officers who also have time constraints of use, because at a certain age they are no longer able to receive such receptions as some of our directors, not with me, but I know that they exist in Slovenia for editors who are 50 years from now. You can imagine how those with professional arrests will incapacitate and imprison a perpetrator or perpetrator of a crime, let alone if it is a crime. And because of this, I think that the first thing I can say is that if we insist that the municipality pay only grossly - be careful because everything else is simply silent - only the gross salary is specifically for our congregation of at least 15 million tolars, at least, it's actually about 20 million tolars, because it's gross-grosss, because there's also the employer's contributions and also pension insurance and I don't know what else is involved, the wage tax as long as it is, and so on. The calculation is very loose, and above all down. And second of all, when we're talking about equipment, I have to say that such errors, or "robocopes," I don't think the uniform of a municipal editor can cost 700,000 dollars, unless it's about armor, helmet, mask, for, I don't know what. For God's sake, don't scare me. I have to say, if I hear the mayor's dress costs 700 thousand dollars, then it's got to be something terrible. It's got to be someone who fights protestors or something. I don't know what the prices are, but I do know that the uniform costs 50, 60 grand because I know how much we pay for it. And no offense, gentlemen, they have a nicer fabric than the gentlemen who are now listening to the debate. Furthermore, there are other provisions that are set out in this law. I explicitly object, as do my fellow Members in the parliamentary group, to the control of public order and peace by municipal officials under such conditions as we have. I have to say that in particular in Isola, for other municipalities, I do not know, but as far as I know, the situation is very similar everywhere, we have 36 police officers in 36 jobs, we should have 36 police officers and police officers, we have, I think, 23; there were 26 of them, now 23 of them, despite the fact that the Isola municipality provides permanent and continuous accommodations for police officers working at the Isol police station. We now have seven office apartments that we've dedicated to the police. Why? Because the police don't provide housing for their employees. And because, of course, of course, the boys and girls who were assigned and were assigned after schooling in Isolo, they are home from Styria, of course they go where they can live but not that they are in a single home, and they are in the same single house where they have beds on the floor. I think it shows here that what has now been happening in the newspapers about the feelings of police within the Slovenian police shows that no one thinks about how these people feel about their daily work at all. They don't feel necessary or desirable, they feel superfluous. And I tell you something, if the law is passed, which I regret not to doubt, because I know how this national assembly works anyway, then Izola will certainly have enough editors in the congregation, but the police will run out, so much so that we're clear. Because this is probably going to happen somewhere else, because the police at the isolation police station will know, as well as at the cop station, the piranha, and anywhere else in the vicinity that I know, that they will have greater social security, that they will have conditions for life, and that they will have their civilian work life, more human life, and that someone will think about them. Here is the basic problem of being used, using and making laws in which because we are unable to provide our police officers in Slovenia with the feeling that we need them and that we love them. It's a household thing to say. This is why we go and tolerate a large part of the jurisdiction, this is about time and human resources jurisdiction, the human resources occupation of the people who exercise these powers, who are written here. This is not about how much we cost or cost or how much they receive, or how much more order there will be. No, no, no. This is about completely human issues that you did not know how to resolve in the Slovenian police. And as usual, I don't look at politics in such things, here I look at purely practical work, employment relationships, nothing else. Then I would say something about the very superiority and subordination of the congregations. I must say that I think absolutely beyond any criticism that the municipal pre-admission security programme should be in line with the regulations, the programme documents of the Ministry of the Interior and the police in the field of public security and the needs of community security. It is said that the needs of security in the congregation are only in the end, but not the basis of all the security in the congregation that we find out what we know about it, and only then can the police, who in any case, have been told that the police have withdrawn in the exercise of control over the implementation of the law on road transport, the law on road safety. I have to say, this is very different. In Isolah, Koper and Piran, where I know him, I've never been punished by a police officer for parking. It's been in Ljubljana twice. A cop, not a county clerk. In Koper, Piran, and in Isolah, I am being punished by municipal officials because police officers simply do not have time, and they probably do not want to punish a traffic offence called parking. Even the wrong parking because I don't do that, which endangers road safety because, say, it closes the door for intervention vehicles. Cops don't even show up there. I'm alone, so you don't have to worry about my time. I've got ten minutes left. So I think we should wait first for the consent of the Ministry of the Interior to assess our own security and needs. I think that the Ministry of the Interior is the one who is involved in the establishment of a security programme in the congregation, but it is not the one that will say "I, you are good, you have done." I don't think the Ministry of the Interior can have such powers. And I'm just going to repeat that very briefly, as my colleague Kumer has already said, it's funny to talk about the fact that the detention can only last until the arrival of the police or for a maximum of an hour. The first thing is, what kind of cops are going to take more than an hour to get to the scene and take over the perpetrator of the crime is the first thing that I find strange to even think about. And the other thing is, what if the police car accidentally breaks down on the way and they couldn't get there in one hour, and then what's he gonna let go of it and he's gonna be able to "haral" on people's side and I don't know what else, the one who caused the crime? And the same goes for the very superiority and subordination itself, and I cannot agree with this that a police officer in a joint action on the ground would somehow be in charge of the director. This is about this officer who, along with the warden, is going to have some kind of control that he's going to have some sort of traffic and he's going to have an identical qualification as a police officer, it's not going to be a lower qualification, even with the special powers that the warden has, except that the police officer can carry a gun, while the warden won't carry it, and I hope he'll never wear it. That's all there is to it. Otherwise, their knowledge, their physical competence, and also their knowledge of human behavior, and so on, all these things are identical. For God's sake, who remembered saying that one editor who has all the exams and all the extra training done to make him not only subordinate but also less paid as a police officer. For what reason? He's not that criminal cop. That officer is exactly the same, I will say, a supervisory and repressive body, as in this case a municipal editor, if he is qualified under this law. I think there's a whole range of reasons, because I don't doubt that you'll be able to assess the law in the first reading, that it's suitable for further consideration, that you'll be at least as reasonable, that I can't say correctly, because here it's no longer about correctness, that it's about reason and understanding the consequences that this law will bring. It is not only financial consequences, it is also the hierarchy of control within this country, co-ordination, the structure of police and municipal authorities. Only the name "municipal rule" in the case of a civil order editor working in the field of public order and peace is the underestimation of these men and women who will work in this area. The municipal editor is a term that we have associated with the control of public order and peace and material order in the congregation, which means that cleanliness, waste disposal, animal treatment and so on, while everything else that is in here, in this law, is certainly meant to be raised to the level of a municipal policeman. And that is why I think that we should then speak very clearly about the municipal police and the municipal police when and when they will carry out the tasks of police control and repression. The fact is that the powers of the police under this law are transferred to the level of the municipality, supervision is exercised over the implementation of national rules. This is a matter of overseeing the law on public order and peace, not the municipal decree and public order and peace; and it is a matter of overseeing the implementation of the road traffic law on local roads, but of road transport in its entirety, from steady to mobile traffic. So we can no longer talk about the function of municipal editor, this is the municipal police officer. That is why it is also important to make sure that we are clear enough and recognize those people who will work in this area or who will play their part in this area and are very important. I hope to state that in all municipalities where the councils and mayors have decided to establish a red tape service, order and willingness to maintain order are far more important than where there are no such editors. I would also say that the editors are, as a rule, a very measured part of humanity, we all know that, because they are often everything but people. But people, after "scramble", eventually admit, if there were no such editors, there would be such chaos in Slovenia that it would no longer be possible to live. And that is why I must say what I have to say directly, if I am elected and if this law is passed, we will implement it in the way I said. Then let Mr Mate make sure he keeps his officers in his posts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u178	Mrs Breda Pecan and everyone else, if you're going to use your performances for electoral propaganda, I'm going to take anyone's word without warning. And one of these is when you promise what you'll do as mayor. Minister Ivan Žagar has applied for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In view of the debate, I would like once again to try to clarify some things about the preparation and proposal of this law. With regard to the imposition of tasks on the congregations referred to in this title, i.e. from security, in short, in the field of public order and peace, I must remind you that you are the ones who are the congregations, this esteemed assembly has already entrusted this task to the congregations at the time of its adoption this year. You have actually assigned these assignments to the congregations, and this law does not impose anything new on the congregations. Read paragraph 27, because this law cannot be implemented at all. This law is, in a way, a law governing the way these tasks are carried out, not those tasks entrusted to the congregations. And the scope of these tasks that were [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[..]] [[Who took him?]] It was probably accepted by this national council. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, we did not propose it, the local self-government service did not propose it, the government proposed it probably, of course I agree, but it was accepted by this national assembly, if I may. [[It's an ad from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u180	Mr. Secretary, you're the only one who has the floor. Talk, don't get confused.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you. That's why I waited. The scope of tasks may, as regards delegated tasks, be the largest as set out in this Act. The actual scope of the tasks will be determined by a security programme where a distinction will be made between the work to be carried out by the police and the work to be carried out by the municipal authorities in this area. Not from the area where, in fact, the registries are already performing their duties, because, already in the vast majority of municipalities, they are established to carry out the tasks of the statutory or sub-legislative regulation of the municipal title. Well, I have to say that I've been doing a lot of work with this marriage, not least because I have gained some experience in my ten-year job as mayor of the congregation where we had and still have a red tape job. As regards some of the issues raised here, including the issue of public order and peace, these questions are usually on the agenda of the municipal councils, at least to the extent that I have personal experience, although the municipalities are not responsible. That is why we are trying, by this law and, above all, through this security programme, to divide this part that will be carried out by the police in the future and that part that will actually be carried out by the authorities and to make it very clear what is whose. This is not clear now because this is a fundamental definition in this Article of this Law. As regards the area of financing, where there were also quite a number of issues. As regards the financing of this task, the matter is somewhat more complex because it is not a classic transfer of the task from country to municipality. In fact, there are more resources to finance this, if we are completely honest. Last but not least, this government has already provided additional funds to raise adequate spending. The new law will also further increase this volume of funds; this is one part of the source. In the case of joint municipal administrations, this part is linked, essentially co-financed through 50% in the event of the formation of a joint municipal administration. And I must say this, too, that some of the issues surrounding the formation of common municipal administrations will also help to clarify our ministry. In some cases, however, such joint municipal administrations have even been extremely successful and have no problems. So I don't know where these administrative obstacles are, but if they are, they really need to be found and removed. As far as municipal government is concerned, there are two other financial effects under this heading. Although it is not the intention of the red tape in a repressive sense, it is certainly carrying out certain tasks and some of the resources are, of course, penalties, although, once again, I emphasise, this is not the basic purpose. A preventive purpose is of greater importance. I read somewhere that the municipality of Ljubljana, in the vandalism area, has between 500 and a billion tolars per year. I expect by increasing the effects on the functioning of the public editorial service that this cost will be substantially reduced, and this indirectly has a positive impact on the funding provided for under this heading. As far as the operation of the directorship is concerned. The fact is, we have foreseen various forms for a simple reason, because we have very different congregations. And these congregations were also established by this national assembly. We are aware that it is not possible in that smallest congregation to carry out red tape in the same way as in the largest - Ljubljana, as well as the specifics and needs of this congregation are likely to be significantly different. And that is also why a program of security is envisaged, where each congregation will coordinate these matters in particular. In the case, and with this law, we now write this very clearly that there is no security programme, and then the police are obliged to implement the legal provisions that you have written in the Law on Public Order and Peace and Road Traffic. This is clearly written in this law, but it was not in the previous one. Of course, I am sure that in those municipalities where they want to improve the security situation, they will, of course, be able to reach such an agreement and actually to demarcate these things. Now, with regard to the human resources issue and some of the questions raised by this title, I cannot say at this point that it would be necessary to just "ad hoc" an increase. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Of course, these things need to be thoroughly examined, but everything depends on implementation through the security programme, how much police will do and how much will be done in the field of red tape. [[...]] However, as regards some additional premises and there is no talk in this law and we do not see any special need, because in cases of such violations, police intervention is needed, of course, the police are called upon and we have been assured that the police come within these frameworks, which are in some way recorded in the law. However, it is true that it would also be necessary to write down a fuse so that, in some exceptional case, an impossible detention could occur, and therefore this fuse is also written, and only in this case is the person who was temporarily detained there actually known. As far as the use of coercive means is concerned - they are primarily intended, as the law also states, personal protection, which has not been the case so far. So far, the clerks have actually been exposed, without any personal protection. It is not intended to interfere with the scope of police action. I can't talk about the police either, and I don't want to talk about it because only one part of the tasks in this law are supposed to be transferred to law enforcement, it's impossible to talk about some form of police, and the police probably have a number of other tasks from other areas covered by the legislation. And, of course, this is why the training programme itself is so short. With regard to the costs of the training programme, the State will cover the part brought by this law which is related to the training to be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, and in the second part already must be covered by the municipalities where they already carry out the tasks of the directorate; these are essentially the tasks that the municipalities are actually carrying out at the moment. As regards equipment assessments, it is clear that it is necessary to carry out contracts in accordance with the Public Procurement Act in one way or another. Then the result of these calls is costs, but the assessment was related to the entire equipment, which is supposed to cover not only the uniform but also all the computer equipment covering the registration and everything else. It was sent to me that this equipment is linked to the computer monitoring of these penalties sheets and these cases. Maybe I'd say that right now. I agree that in some points the law is likely to be improved, of course we are open to this and we expect specific comments. While some have already been presented in this debate, I believe that the adoption of this law through the fact that other legislation has already been adopted and is already imposing these tasks will certainly contribute to the fact that we will also have a real situation in the future a little bit or perhaps significantly better than they are now. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u182	Minister, thank you. Member Villa Trofenik has the floor. He's not here. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. You're giving up. Member Milan Jerič has the floor. He's not here. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. She's not in the hall. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u183	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I am grateful to Minister Žagar for reminding him of the fraud that took place when this law was passed or both laws were passed, that in some way the resulting law was passed and now we must adopt a causal law. It can also be called something different, but you know that first there are some things, then there are others and then there are thirds; and that usually in life there must not be such that it is the result first and only then we adapt all the other elements that make up it to the same. That's one of the things. The other thing that really bothers me about this is the fact that the police are moving away from local communities, getting off the roads. Where's he going, he's throwing up, that police! Does he have any room? We have one policeman per 250 people in Slovenia. This is a very high number, in a global situation, even in so-called police countries, they do not reach such a number, and these people are not. And of course, all the logic is then that this control segment of the country has been very busy, that it is a "swiss", that it cannot get itself involved. If we also look at the results of their internal surveys on how or how we would not remain in the police, then it is very clear that something is very wrong there. And I'm so sorry, Mr. Secretary, that you've been overwhelmed by all these things that are happening there. That they've moved from internal affairs to somewhere else. I don't think it's "fair" to you and it's not "fair" to citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Now the municipal police are supposed to be in charge, and I'm just going to say that the thing will be clearer, which is supposed to be doing the duties of those officers who have done it so far, and they're slowly retreating. I don't know if that's gonna be good. I don't know if they're competent enough, and I don't even know if they'll be so educated and equipped to be competent enough. I don't think handcuffs and pips or whatever they're carrying around is enough. And it is also a problem that it will still be the people of the environment who will be placed in different situations when they will have to confront their fellow citizens in some way or physically corrupt, in any way. None of this is good, and many times the police have been warned that it is not good that people are too close, etc., for many reasons. It's only about vandalism and mostly about what the law says about public order and peace. And I'm asking you what's going to happen if there's someone in this environment who's supposed to be under the supervision of the real police who's gone somewhere. What if the terrible bandit Cefisel comes over the municipal police officer? How will this story end? Will the mayor be responsible for his employee if he hurts him if he kills him? That's what it says in one of the articles of the law. Did you predict everything that could happen? Was there some sort of simulation? She wasn't. It was just a story that was written, and then, after the paragraphs, it fell apart and became a marriage. Because of all this, it seems to me that the law is not suitable for further consideration, although it is very clear to me that those Members, who are also mayors and have experience with this, can also speak in addition to and in favour of this law, because, of course, they are in trouble - because they do not have police officers because their municipal officials are under-qualified. That's understandable, but you don't have to agree to such a marriage. Let us think carefully about who we give more authority to, and who we especially burden with it. I'm sure not all the mayors have read what awaits them because of this marriage. It's not just the clerks or the municipal police waiting for everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you, Comrade Gulic. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! Allow me once again, Mr. Minister, I am truly sorry that you must defend such a law, which is not within your jurisdiction, alone or with the support of other types of government forces. [[...]] But when you said, as my predecessor said, "the resulting law you've adopted before," the government coalition adopted it earlier, we have a causal law before us today. You mentioned, Mr. Minister, if I may say a few words to your performance first, a preventive purpose. I believe it's not your department that doesn't belong to you, but I would really like to read you article 10 of the law. [[I don't know, maybe you know him.]] : "The municipal editor shall have the following powers: warning, oral order, identification, security review of the person, seizure of the objects, detention of the perpetrator of the offence or of the offence, use of physical force, means of locking and tying and gas dispenser." [[The end of paragraph 1 of Article 10.]] Tell me the prevention you see in this. Give me a warning! You said the law didn't interfere with the police. And I'm going to read again the sixth indent: "Detaining the perpetrator of a crime and a crime." A criminal act is dealt with by another law, a law that gives powers to the police. By doing so, we give the directors the authority to fall into the police field. Do not tell me that these powers given to them in Article 10 do not affect the police field. Of course, if you give them jurisdiction to act in the event of a criminal offence. Of course they do, let's be realistic! The so - called second type of government army also spoke of failing to study the law properly. Yes, then it is better not to get up at all, given that they have talked about whether some individuals or s.p.-is, or whether d.o.o. already engaged, should be given at the municipal level the authority to carry out the service of the municipal authorities. But just because you haven't read this marriage, I'll read it to you, Comrade Steba, if you stop your conversation, you've done it, I'll read the first paragraph of Article 2, when you've talked about the S.P.s to give them that. "The municipal municipality shall establish the city registrar and the municipality may establish a municipal registrar with a decree to be adopted by the municipal council on a proposal from the mayor or mayor." So far, it has been a practice to do so within the congregation. It's always been like this. We're talking about municipal government, not G7, not security, not anyone else. It's nice, in the beginning, you admit that you haven't read the marriage, so sometimes silence can also be gold. Since jurisdiction is also extended to criminal offences, 166 hours of training have been given to city editors who are statistically educated in the Republic of Slovenia: 9 have secondary vocational education, 82 have secondary general school, where they belong to high school, and 7 have higher vocational education. You added 166 hours of special education to them to mediate in the event of a crime, so it's like playing some little Sherlock Holmes or detectives after 166 hours. You don't think you're interfering here again with the police field, the area of those who are studying four years of secondary education and the addition to becoming detectives. I think so, or I'm sure it is. And when someone said that municipal police are an expression of need, they're not an expression of necessity. The need has proved to be because the police simply do not carry out their duties. And while we are already dealing with crimes because you are extending jurisdiction over crimes, I would expect that municipal officials will also be in the national security strategy presented by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you. The word has been delivered by the Member of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I, too, would like to respond first to the words and explanations of Minister Žagar, especially the part where you in Parliament have prepared this story yourself. I must say that in both the LDS and the LDS, personally, I think that those who today oppose the law on municipal government have all spoken very much and opposed the changes of the law on police or the law on public order and peace with the same arguments. I can even say that part of my introductory thinking today is exactly the same as it was then presented or read to the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition did not listen to these arguments, did not want to hear them, and at that time we announced that this law was waiting for us, which, I think and I hope, will end its path today, because I think it is so inconvenient that it cannot continue and cannot be completed. And I must say that, in this sense, it seems to me that, and I repeat, you did, however, go to the local law department of the Ministry of the Interior and that this time you will really do bear service to the municipalities, because the way in which this law is based, the content of this law is such that it will cause conflicts, problems and enormous financial obligations. I have to say, maybe first around the finances. He mentioned something to his colleagues. Once again, I must say that my assessment is that 143 existing editors, mostly in the larger municipalities where they also have more, 15, 20, larger municipalities, will not be enough for these 143 editors, and I expect that at least 100 new jobs will be needed, I repeat. However, this does not only mean new jobs, it also means compulsory education, which is provided for in the law, equipment, premises, vehicles and means of enforcement, which means a minimum cost, according to my assessment, of 5 million per director; and you charged the Slovenian municipalities with at least 500 million for 2007. Why 2007? Dear colleagues, it is not true that there will be no need to establish municipal registries and that the congregation will decide for itself whether or not it would. Three articles are related and no one talks about a third. One article speaks of the congregation’s setting up a congregation office, unless it is a duty alone, and it must have at least one congregation editor, along with others. Then there's the article that talks about this famous security plan. This security plan or programme submitted by the mayor to the municipal council must be adopted by the municipal council and, until such time as the plan is not adopted, by the police, it is true. But Article 35 of the Law obliges the municipalities to adopt these security plans within one year, which means - within one year, the security plan, the definition of the municipal registrar and the competences of the tasks to be carried out by each municipality, and within one year, the police will finally withdraw from the local communities for those powers imposed primarily by the law on public order and peace and which appear to be extremely controversial. A few more articles, because I see that most, including candidates for mayors, have unfortunately failed to read this law, I have already protested that the law went into procedure, and that the municipalities have had the opportunity to study and supplement it in August, officially, from the National Assembly we received it on 31 July and "comments to send to the National Assembly by 31 August, signed by Mr Tsukati". This was the time when the congregations made comments on it, and most were already thinking about the elections, as most of them also repeated mandates and so very few people were involved. I would read a few articles again, however, which I think are absolutely controversial because you said you wanted specific comments. "If municipal officials carry out tasks together with police officers, according to Article 9, they are obliged to act on the orders of the police officer." This is, in my opinion, an interference with the autonomy of the congregations, which must be ensured. Come in. In Article 10, something I've never talked about before seems very interesting to me. "Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the provisions of the Police Act and the regulations governing the principles and the manner in which similar powers are exercised for police officers shall apply mutatis mutandis to the exercise of the powers of the alert, the security review, the seizure of the subject - in short, these coercive means." What, though, is a meaningful application of the provisions? Who will determine what makes sense, and what is not the point of using police laws in the editorial segment? I think that such provisions have all fallen in line in the Constitutional Court so far, and I remind you that there is no meaningful application of laws. Come in. Article 14 - "The municipal director may use a physical force, a gas dispenser", Pips, of which we have talked a lot about today, "only if he cannot turn away from himself or anyone else at the same time." Once again, in extremely dangerous situations, municipal officials will be placed in charge and their employer will be responsible for all of this, and these will be the congregations. Article 16, we haven't spoken yet, and perhaps some of you haven't noticed. The third paragraph states: "In the event that a person is injured or killed during the proceedings, "God Vari" is obliged to notify the mayor in writing at the latest or immediately, within 24 hours, with the initiative to set up an independent commission to assess the legality, competence of the conduct of the municipal editor." Are we going to the mayors now, or are future mayors going on duty? If it happens on Saturday's birthday in some cases or at a similar event to a physical injury, the mayor must respond within 24 hours, be informed in writing and must set up an immediate commission to examine the matter. I do not know if Slovenian mayors in all the smallest municipalities, which you have established in the coalition, are also capable of doing so happily under a thousand people. I also think that most mayors in smaller municipalities perform the function unprofessionally. It's hard to imagine how mayors can [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In fact, you give them continuous accessibility and continuous engagement as those who are also paid for it and have the whole system that the police have. [[...]] This commission must be composed, etc., and, of course, once again, the appeal body for all these matters, for example, for the meaningful application of police laws, and the mayor will be the mayor. The mayor must examine the complaint referred to in the preceding paragraph and inform the complainant in writing of his findings and actions within 30 days. According to my opinion, the police have a whole system of complaints bodies and people who take care of these matters. And we're going to be the unfortunate mayor, there under 2 000 people - such as the municipalities - it seems to me that around 90 - will lead to the situation that within 30 days he will have to react to his lawyers, if he has such sensitive matters as human rights, interference with these rights, intervention, you know what these powers are. I think it's an absolute excess of jurisdiction, and the poor mayors and mayors who get this on their heads. I am afraid of what situations we will fall into in Slovenia, microphones will be in front of their mouths from all the TVs who will want to do what they do, how they act, how they decide, why they decide. I think that there is an absolute need to reconsider much more about this law, and of course also, above all, whether the congregations will be able to meet the 500 million new costs in 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Matjaž Švagan has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. He's not in the hall. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will, like the speakers before me, but I will begin by pointing out exactly what the Minister of Local Self-Government has warned and instilled this sin in the National Assembly that we are at least in opposition to this fact, that the law on public order and peace determines the order and then, by means of special law, the order that we strongly, decisively oppose it in plenary. I myself recall that we had a special conversation before the second hearing on the working body, a conversation with Minister Matthew that he even understood the core of these matters, but somehow he showed that he could no longer withdraw. This rolling of blame on the National Assembly is entirely unjustifiable, is the fact that the government then proposed this law and the fact that the coalition, such as it is, adopted it. I would start with the fact that we have clearly very diverse municipalities, from very large for the Slovenian situation, to extremely small ones, and that the single regulation of local self-government in many ways shows a number of shortcomings, especially in this law. The fact is, in my opinion, the great cities will be numbered: Ljubljana, Maribor, perhaps the coastal conglomerate, need much more than this law and police regulation and so on. They might even need something called the Metropolitan Police because the nature of urban problems and conflicts is very different from other problems. But I'm not gonna talk about this right now. What I'm most afraid of is that it comes down to the fact that editors will also perform certain tasks on the basis of the law on public order and peace, that it will happen, not that they will react too much, but that situations in which neither one nor the other will react, that the police will say, will be done by the editors, and that the officials will say, that is a police task. That's exactly the biggest problem that's gonna come up here. Don't talk to me about security plans, don't tell me stories about how they're going to coordinate with each other, etc., don't tell me about how security plans will be a chance for people who will cycle and reproduce, like they used to apply entrepreneurship legislation, the united labour law, some will remember. In short, I think this will be a serious problem. That's another thing. I would understand, if you said, "okay", the municipal government carries out and executes tasks and matters relating to the implementation and control of municipal decrees, but the police do so through state and law. That would be a clean solution. This solution would be necessary because when the public administration was divided into state administration and local self-government, some things like some colleagues in front of me, including my neighbor, pointed out that the police had withdrawn from some of the things. You'd understand that. But there is no solution, at least not as it should be. Above all, I reiterate what some have already pointed out - what the editors will do also means to intervene in human rights, freedoms and so on. We have a four-year police school, a whole range of educations and things like that, and they will not be able to replace all these skills, behaviours and technical and physical abilities so that they can do their job for you. Therefore, in this respect, I do not think that this law, such as it is, as it introduces additional confusion, is appropriate for further consideration. I think that the proposaler should make a thorough change if we want him not to cause additional confusion and problems in our local environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Well, I am also of the opinion that the matter under consideration today is quite sensitive, especially when we come to the segment or the area of how to divide powers, if I may say so, between the congregation or directly the police and on the other hand. I am not surprised that today there are so many different opinions in the National Assembly to the proposed law, precisely because of the fact that there are so many different municipalities in Slovenia. I must say that, for example, the municipalities of the border certainly have a completely different share per capita in terms of the number of police officers than in some municipalities in the middle of Slovenia. And I will tell myself what I have done several times, which bothers me a lot, that it is actually hard to imagine that in a border congregation where there are 100 police officers, in fact, these police officers do nothing but what border protection legislation requires them to do; or a small congregation like ours has two border crossings that are their primary task and then stop drivers. I am of the opinion that in the last period we have been quite well, I will now say under the slogans, that we have evaluated the police. I'm not surprised today if some citizens don't have any, like we used to say, "respekt" to these people. And these are the facts that, on the other hand, indicate the situation, as it is, in terms of public order and peace, of individual local communities. But I have to say that the police, as far as I know the matter, are very happy with this, because this other segment, which I as a mayor somehow look at may be different from some others, could be carried out. I told you that the last time I heard the case, when my colleague told me, in the area of Obstetrics and Koziansk, you needed 40 kilometers along a road that is no longer a road, you're going through six railway crossings, and in between the police stop you three times. When are you gonna get to the highway? These are the facts that hold. I would also be somewhat more pleased if, above all, police officers were to carry out more tasks in these municipalities, especially in this segment that we are considering today, in the future. I'll support the marriage. Frames are set. But I have some concerns myself, and I think we're going to make a difference until the second treatment. But all I would add is that, I hope, the law does say that the appellate body is the mayor. Whether it's good or not, I hope there's no one who's determined by that to deter him from running for mayor, but it's not a pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you. Milan Petek is next on the list of registered Members. [[He's not here.]] The last of the MEPs on the list so far is Ambassador Marijan Pojbič. [[He's not here.]] I then call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to answer the questions raised during the debate so far. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thanks again for saying that. I'd still repeat what I've done more than once today, or at least twice, I'll say it. I am convinced that the adoption of legislation in this area in the National Assembly has a good purpose both of those already adopted and of these. And that's to improve the security situation. With regard to the transfer of these powers, I must, of course, point out that this does not come from this mandate alone, but from the legislation adopted earlier, the road transport law, which has already been adopted, and also from my own experience I am speaking because I have dealt with this, transferred certain tasks concerning the regulation of peaceful transport to the municipalities. And that is now regulated by this law. As far as time and coordination with the congregation are concerned. I must say, we have introduced this law to the congregations of both associations. That we also exchanged our views there and that some of the amendments to the law were also made on the basis of this discussion, so that it is unlikely that the congregations had any insight into this law, on the contrary. I must also say that, even from the experience I have from my previous work, this law has emerged, and probably also some solutions in the law on public order and peace, precisely from the needs and requirements of the individual municipalities, which wanted to have such a way of regulating this area, because they have certain specifics. And then with one law we need to follow the wishes, the needs for the future, now 210th municipalities, that is a fact and we have different municipalities in Slovenia. Now, as far as costs are concerned, I repeat that through the increased funding of municipalities through systemic funding, I am sure that one part of the costs is involved in this. As regards education costs, they are covered by the costs of the competent ministry. I absolutely expect that the so-called indirect return of funds to the preventive work budget, preventive work in the sense that the scale of vandalism is reduced from this title and, consequently, costs, if we talk about it. And finally, there are also penalties, which are probably, in a cost-effective sense, symbolic and are not the purpose of this punishment. These powers must, however, be given if we are to have the authority to carry out their duties. Once again, as regards the question or comment by Mr Ganttar. Don't talk to me about the security program. The security programme is the fundamental point in this law and the security programme is the one that will divide and must demarcate when the law is adopted, the part of the powers of the police and the part that will then be carried out by the authorities. And I'm sure the competent ministry, along with the services that cover this area, is being taken seriously. And I'm sure time will tell [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That they're going in the right direction. [[..]] And in conclusion, I would say that I think the solutions are going in the right direction. We are open to improvement, and, last but not least, this debate here in the National Assembly is intended to do so, of course, in terms of improving the security situation also in this segment of operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u194	Minister, thank you. Since we still have time for the 20th item, one minute and thirteen, I ask, does anyone else want a word under Rule 171(1) of the Rules of Procedure? Every debater will have a maximum of five minutes. And I'm gonna use our computer technique to find out who wants the word. Check-ins. For once, we have three Members of Parliament who have been declared. I give the first word to the Lady of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. You're giving up. Then Member Boyan Starman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. I will probably support the bill, but it is not said that I will support the final version of the law if it is not substantially amended. First of all, I'd like to say one of the things no one has said. We will have to take care of public spending in our country, not to increase. This matter can work in such a way that, given that certain powers are being reduced to the police, the scale of work is being reduced, of course this burden, these additional costs are being borne by this Ministry of Home Affairs, I see no reason here and there must be at least one "one" in the calculation itself. A further thing that, when the impact on the state budget is estimated at zero, will have to be written there that the minus and, of course, in other public funds is so much plus to equalise. Another thing that is, it is a matter of responsibility and authority in this matter. I think people should do these tasks in advance. Those who lose their job in the police department are now probably working as a municipal director, but for the area of safety and transport safety, this should be fundamental competences, including the drawing up of plans for all of this, I would say to the police, who specializes in this. I don't think the mayors are going to create each and every one of us, and we're not going to know how to create these things. In short, certain things will have to be fundamentally corrected, many things have been proposed here, but I think that the transfer of powers still needs to be substantially complemented and more precise rules of the game, the funding system and everything. Otherwise, of course, this thing doesn't make sense, and unfortunately, I thought earlier that maybe if we didn't accept this plan in the congregation, then my colleague reminded me that in one year it was necessary, I would be using it on a particular occasion, so that I wouldn't even accept this plan and leave it to the police to continue doing my job. One more thing. We have problems with the municipal registries, with inspections, we mix it left, right, we establish it with the municipalities together, of course these powers are important to us. This is about the implementation of the decisions from which we recover certain penalties, etc., but here we will work for the benefit of the state budget on these matters. I would ask that this actually materially complements the correction so that we don't shoot at nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you, Comrade Starman. For the time being, Member Dusan Kumer is the last to be reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. I'm not gonna spend five minutes, just for a little while. It's a solution. In my opinion, this law, as it is prepared, does not have to be adopted at all and would suggest that we say it is not good for further consideration. If I find through all the surveys, assessments and reviews of the situation and the situation that the local situation with regard to public peace and order is poor, the police should, within the framework of their legal powers, strengthen their presence at local level, and the governorates should carry out tasks related to decisions in municipal councils or city councils; and we have a solution. Believe me, out of the 147 editors that are now doing other jobs, not the ones that this law imposes on them, with an additional 100 editors, we will not solve this. We're not gonna solve this problem. This problem will only be solved with greater competence, as the former Police Director, Mr Celik, has pointed out for ten years, with greater authority of the police at local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you. Since all the debaters have been given the floor, I am also concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 6.30. This concludes this agenda item, which we will continue as we say at 6:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-27-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u199	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 23. We're voting. I note that 65 Members and Members voted for 27 to 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. At the same time, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 23 of the LDS Parliamentary Group number 2. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted, 27 to 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 23 of Article 3 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. Of the 67 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 23 of Article 4 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted 29 to 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 23 of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted for 28 to 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 6 of the LDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We're moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 21. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics, first examined, is suitable for further consideration. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 2. (For the vote was 65.)(against 2.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill on municipal registrarship. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on municipal governance, first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 23. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a blood supply law. Yesterday, the National Assembly suspended the examination of this point in order to examine the appropriateness of the Government's proposed harmonisation amendment to Article 33 of the Act. Following a re-examination, the government found that it was not a non-conformity of the law resulting from the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, so the harmonisation amendment was withdrawn. You've been granted a stay of absence on the bench. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you.
