ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Janez Kramberger, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Jožef Horvat, Alojz Sok, Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Maria Pozsonec, Jakob Presječnik until 4 p.m. and Samo Bevk until 12 noon. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today you are considering an important bill, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the law will, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, lay the groundwork for further progress in the effective enforcement of the powers of state prosecutors. On the one hand, the law will regulate certain issues related to the law on the public sector's salary system by adopting a decision on the salaries of officials, in particular with regard to the setting of salaries or allowances for the quality and average work of state prosecutors and prosecutors and the methods of awarding those allowances, which will further stimulate state prosecutors and prosecutors to work in a professional, efficient, quality and timely manner. On the other hand, the Act lays down the conditions for the effective, professional and centralised functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office in the field of prosecution of organised crime and economic crime and the direction of the police in relation to those crimes, namely, a new definition of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Group for the prosecution of organised crime in the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. As has already been said, the State Prosecutor's Office is therefore receiving additional incentives for its work by means of a bill. Thus, Article 26 of the draft law provides for additives for state prosecutors in the same way as for judges. In this regard, let me mention, in particular, the allowance for less favourable working conditions, the allowance for alternating work during the afternoon and night shifts, the allowance for working at night, for working on Sundays or working on a day specified by law as part of a day or holiday, the allowance for full-time work, the allowance for home-time readiness in case of permanent readiness to provide for the possibility of arrival at work and the allowance for on-call hours which have not been allocated in full-time. However, as regards certain additives governed by the proposal for a law, it is important to note that additives which belong to the public prosecutor in the light of the nature of the function, taking into account certain specificities, such as the performance of the on-call service, are regulated. The State Prosecutor shall be subject to the conditions and levels laid down by this Act, the Judicial Service Act, which shall apply mutatis mutandis to the rights and obligations of public prosecutors, the Public Sector Wage System Act and the Collective Economic Contract. The bill makes sense, in the same way as the Public Servants Act, for civil servants, to provide a legal basis for the payment of the increased labour or additional labour burden of state prosecutors, with the level of payment and the remaining eligibility criteria set out in the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the second major amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act, a new way of determining the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Group for the prosecution of organised crime, Article 2 of the Law provides for a general framework for that group's competence by not giving the State Prosecutor's Office for the prosecution of organised crime any powers that state prosecutors or the District Attorney's Office would not already have under the law in force on the State Prosecutor's Office. Public prosecutors who are assigned to work in a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime are, and will, as a rule, be district attorneys who are already and so competent for the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences and this is already provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act. The question of specific legal arrangements for the prosecution of the most serious crimes, the area of organised crime, including economic crime, and in cases of criminal offences requiring particular organisation and competence is, in view of the hierarchical organisation of state prosecutions and the purpose of the state prosecution, that is, the effective prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, which is an important element in ensuring legal certainty, the actual issue of the internal organisation of work in the State Prosecutor's Office. Article 2 suggests that the group is responsible for offences in the field of organised classical and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other criminal offences, whose detection and prosecution require particular organisation and competence. In addition, in view of the effective prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, Article 3 of the Law provides for additional jurisdiction under which, where an act under the jurisdiction of the group under Article 2 of the Law is related to other acts which are of a less serious nature and may also be decided in those cases by the Attorney-General that such acts, because they are linked to the same accused, are also assigned to the group for a more economic work and that the case is dealt with in a related way. The bill also provides that the term of office of state prosecutors assigned to the group shall be after a new four-year period and not more than six years, as was the case under the law in force. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the limitation of the allocation time to the group for four years, with the possibility of re-allocation to the groups, makes sense. The work in the group is particularly difficult, related to high burdens, the need for an in-depth study for work, intensive participation in the group with other national authorities, as well as possible increased responsibility and risk. It is therefore reasonable that the expected approval of candidates to work in groups under such a condition is obtained for a shorter period of four years, which should be additionally stimulating for state prosecutors in order to choose a new career path with which they can make many benefits in terms of effective prosecution of perpetrators of crimes and for the rule of law. The guarantees that only professional or professionally qualified state prosecutors will be assigned to the group are in order to continue to be assigned to the State Prosecutor's Council, which consists of seven members of the State Prosecutors. Since the Attorney-General of the Republic of Slovenia or the Attorney-General of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for carrying out prosecutions, it is also correct that he or she assigns matters to the group on the basis of the criteria set out in Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Well-known representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the draft law at its 14th emergency meeting. In addition, the representative stressed in his explanation that the aim of the proposed amendments and the addition is to provide a legal basis for the successful implementation of the reform of the public sector wage system in the work relating to the salaries of public prosecutors. The proposed legislation on salaries and other remuneration of state prosecutors and state prosecutors' assistants is also intended to ensure legal certainty in this area. The proposal for a new law lays down the powers of a group of state prosecutors to prosecute organised crime in the Attorney General's Office, replacing the current group of state prosecutors for special cases. The powers of the group are defined in a more general manner, and a new allocation period is also set for the group, informing the group of matters under its jurisdiction. However, the possibility of granting cases under its jurisdiction has also been increased. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, who stressed that the applicant had already taken account of some of the comments made by their services in the drafting of the amendments to the Committee, and she also drew attention to the comments made in their written opinion, which the applicant did not fully take into account, namely Article 1, 2, 3 and Article 6 of the draft law, to the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the political system, which was based on the Commission's support for the bill, but stressed that, in their view, the proposed amendments to the procedure and the breakdown of the consistency and uniformity of the payment system of officials and public servants. The General Prosecutor-General has presented her opinion and position on the draft law and has highlighted her position in particular with regard to the solutions to the draft law relating to the actual presence and organisation of a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime. It pointed out that the competent groups in the current regulation were not sufficiently specified and that in practice there were difficulties in deciding what was within its competence and what was not. During the discussion, the members and members of the Committee discussed in particular the appropriateness of the provision establishing the new competence of a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime. Some members of the Committee considered that the provision was designed in a way that allowed for the extension of the group's competence and considered it to be a complete criminal offence under criminal law. In their view, the aim of the group is to prosecute only the society of the most dangerous crimes, but not the wealthier crimes, and they felt that the group should deal only with officially persecutive crimes. On the contrary, most members of the Committee considered the proposed solutions to be an important step towards better organisation of state prosecutors. The proposed amendments to the new provisions of the Group's powers ensure more effective enforcement of the powers of state prosecutors in the field of organised crime and a more flexible anti-crime organisation. Since in practice it is sometimes very difficult to define what to define as organised crime and what not, it is appropriate to leave to the Attorney-General the assessment of which matters require to be identified and prosecuted. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the LDS to Article 2 and adopted all its amendments and, in the end, all the articles of the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	Good morning, everyone, and thank you so much for your word. The law that we are now talking about or representing our position is the last in a series that began with the law on the public sector's pay system and continued with the functional decree, so unfortunately this law also inherited all the weaknesses that were already involved and cannot be avoided. The DeSUS delegation had its concerns before, and it also maintained them over the weekend. The weekend didn't change anything. He gave us additional time to do simulations and realize that we are right with numbers and therefore we cannot change our views. However, we can be pleased that we have this happiness in our group, perhaps we could call it that we speak as we think we do and even vote as we say, which is not happening in this national assembly. We support that part of the pay system law in the public sector that equates prosecutors with judges. We think it's the same. At the same time, we find that, in fact, state prosecutors were almost the only ones satisfied with the changes in this law. We support, or at least do not oppose, the award after work, the award after quality of work, according to the extent of work, after difficulty, by responsibility. We think it's also right that on-calls and readiness are rewarded. We don't know, we don't know why it's possible to distinguish between one part of the better and the worse work within the entire functional system, and the other part doesn't. This is how the law stipulates that some work in a way that is always the same, so it also consistently shows up in payments and allows others, or encourages them to do better, faster and more effectively. We support efficiency in preventing and detecting crime. That's the better part of the law we support. We also support stimulating differences. We think it's right to stimulate it. We are pleased that they are given appropriate powers to prosecutors and that they are also properly organised and that, let us hope, in this way at least, we support that part of the law that will contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs. Unfortunately, these good parts of the law are not as difficult as the ones we reject. Even after the introduction itself, it is a matter of first mentioning the Law on Public Sector Payments and, in addition, of the most important other matters, we are regulating and therefore the DeSUS Group will not vote in favour of the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. In addition to aligning the provisions with the law on the public sector wage system and the decision on the salaries of officials, the most important changes relate to the competence of a group of state prosecutors in the Attorney General's Office. This is a regulation that will allow for a more efficient and centralised exercise of the powers of state prosecutors in the field of organised crime. The fact is that they exist with regard to the competences of the current State Prosecutors' Group for Special Matters, for the prosecution of organised crime, some uncertainties. Therefore, changes were needed to address these uncertainties. We believe that the prosecution will become more and more effective in the future, and that the confidence of the public will also increase gradually. Given that the Slovenian prosecution has faced a number of organisational and human resources problems in recent years, which has certainly been known in the quality of work, we welcome the proposed amendments to the law on the prosecution. In the future, we can probably expect the Attorney General's Office to come up with other proposals that will lead to the best and most effective part of the state's prosecutors. Unfortunately, in recent years the government has not paid enough attention to the fight against organised crime, which has caused a significant degree of passivity in the prosecutions themselves, so the results in this area have not been helpful. In our Group of Members, we are pleased to note that, with the arrival of Attorney General Barbara Brezigar, the attitude of this institution towards such crime has changed, which is seen in the bill under consideration in addition to some organisational and human resources measures. As we say, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendments and additions to the State Prosecutor's Office Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we strongly oppose the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the State Prosecutor's Act by means of an urgent procedure, since it is not in any way a matter of preventing difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. It should be stressed that the public prosecutors do not face backlogs and that work in this area is ongoing, so the law could certainly be adopted on a regular basis. In particular, due to the fact that a special case group is being re-established in the draft law, which has not only received a new name, this is a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime, as it seems, but also new competences. Unlike the regulation in force, the power of a group of state prosecutors to prosecute organised crime is now very general and is therefore indeterminate. This is pointed out not only by the LDS Member Club, but also by the legislature of the National Assembly, which says that such an arrangement will necessarily be reflected in the delimitation of powers between the group and the local competent state prosecutors in the allocation of individual cases. The provision is also made by allowing the group to pursue all acts for which individual state prosecutors do not have the appropriate experience and ability. This will be decided by the Attorney-General or the Attorney-General on his own discretion, completely arbitrary. This is particularly pointed out because we also have experience before the law is now in force. Recall the conduct of the then leader of this group in the so-called Depal village case. We are also opposed to the bill's proposal that the law will have no financial implications. If the applicant substantiates the urgent procedure behind the so-called Lukend project, he should also be aware of the fact that the involvement of prosecutors in this project requires new employment and thus leads to new financial burdens. So in the LDS House of Members, we will not support the law, but we will oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! The parliamentary groups of Social Democrats will not support the bill. There are two groups of questions that prevent us from doing so. The first set of issues concerns changes in the pay system. We have already discussed this in the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the public sector wage system, so let me just repeat it. The pay system must be based on the cooperation of the social partners, the competent minister, I think of the Minister of Public Administration, promised the trade unions in writing that he would not propose amendments and amendments to the law on the public sector wage system, which would not be previously aligned with trade unions. He failed to fulfil that obligation. The payment system, as proposed in the law, introduces into a single scheme for public officials and public servants, which is a fundamental objective of the new regime, including specific arrangements for individual groups of beneficiaries, thus restoring the distinction that was characteristic of the previous system. Without sufficient justification, without specific programme and criteria, the powers of the Minister of Justice to stimulate judges and state prosecutors are also introduced into the payroll system. We do not object to this, but the system should be broken down, but not so generally defined. Even more important are the proposed changes in competences, the way in which cases are drawn up in human resources procedures and other related to the functioning of a special group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime. On these issues, we were also reminded of the legal inadequacy of regulation by the legal and legal service. For several years now, there has been a dispute in the summits of the State Prosecutor's Office, or there are divergent views as to whether this group should be responsible for a specific round of crimes or whether its powers should be laid down in a very general and descriptive manner, in a manner that gives broad powers and discretion to the Attorney-General and in part, on certain issues, to the competent minister on his proposal. The current Attorney-General has always advocated this general definition of the competence of this group and, when appointing it to its position, has placed such a definition as one of the fundamental objectives of its operation. Therefore, the content of the law does not surprise us. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that such regulation is legal and can also be constitutionally controversial, since the rules, especially those which determine the powers of state authorities and those relating to human rights abuses, must not be clear and specific, otherwise provide the necessary legal security for citizens and citizens and are not in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. We too want to make law enforcement more effective, but we do not want to see greater arbitrariness and greater potential for a political impact on the specific allocation of individual cases to prosecutors to deal with the objective and behaviour of one of them in a particular case. We do not believe that in all the other staff exchanges in the economy, in the public administration, in the judiciary, under all the laws that we have adopted in this National Assembly with the coalition majority only in order to put compatible personnel in the right places in time. We do not therefore believe that, even in this case, it is not a matter of continuing such a policy and understanding of power. Rather, an understanding of power as an electoral prey, not as a responsible and constitutionally coherent government of the country in the interest of all, so we will not support the proposal of the contested law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Run. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Amendments and additions to the Public Prosecutor's Office Act are aligned with the public sector wage system, the amendment regulates individual supplements according to the nature of the function, and the promotion of state prosecutors within the salary scale and the appointment to the title is also regulated. In particular, the law also newly prescribes the powers of a special group of state prosecutors to combat organised crime in the Attorney General's Office. After the current arrangement, there have been problems as to what the group can do and what falls within its competence. If we look at the duration of the criminal procedure, it is the prosecutors who are involved in it all the time. Their appropriate response to the proceedings is therefore necessary and their activity begins in the detection of the crime and the perpetrator, i.e. in the pre-trial proceedings before the investigating judge and then in the main proceedings. Where necessary, it shall continue to submit regular and exceptional legal remedies. And if the Public Prosecutor's Office is to ensure that all stages of the proceedings are well prepared, it must therefore begin with a quality complex indictment, accurately and systematically prepare the indictments, so it must have the knowledge and experience of the prosecutors, in particular the available procedure, to bring them to a successful conclusion. It is therefore appropriate and also necessary in specific cases to organise them, to organise them into a group. Therefore, according to the New Slovenia Group of Members, the new forms of organised crime justify an increase in the possibility of assigning powers to the group and, on the one hand, a slightly more general form of the group's competence. In the opinion of the New Slovenia, the novel adequately sets out certain framework limits, and the competence and responsibility of every time the Attorney General is to decide which matters are so important in view of the specific situation that they must be led by a group from one city, of course, with specialised prosecutors. On the other hand, we update the provisions on the legal information centre and the professional centre with the amendment of the law, and they are more clearly guided. It also regulates the education and scholarship of prosecutors. All this time, there have been indications and in this regard the issue of appropriate competence and the education of prosecutors, so this amendment of the law is certainly a step forward towards the goal of highly educated and specialised prosecutors. However, the conditions of suspension of the Public Prosecutor in the event of the imposition of criminal proceedings are also more precisely regulated. The responsibility of each individual state prosecutor is therefore a good preparation for every step in the criminal procedure. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that the prosecutors are only one article in the crime detection and prosecution chain, but it is those who make key decisions whether or not they will continue the process and how they will lead it. In their hands is the detection and prosecution of those acts that endanger an individual who threatens a country or society as a whole. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we are also aware of these responsibilities which this body has, but in the light of their competences, we expect that and that this awareness of responsibility in each of the prosecutors will be at the highest possible level. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, everyone's welcome! The amendments and additions to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which we are considering under urgent procedure, bring two key novelties or amendments to existing legislation. Last Thursday, we tried to settle the matter by means of a law and a decree regulating the system of salaries of public sector officials. The first amendment to the law in question therefore concerns the salaries of officials on the state's prosecutions. With regard to these provisions, certain comments have already been made to the effect that the law on the regulation of the system of salaries of public prosecutors constitutes an exception to the uniform regulation of salaries of public sector officials. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that a certain derogation in the case of state prosecutors is still acceptable. By law, certain supplements for state prosecutors in managerial functions are still appropriate in our opinion. The Slovenian prosecutions are facing difficulties, as the prosecutor’s profession is not interesting or interesting today because of the income or salary levels of these jobs for lawyers. As a result, lawyers who have completed their studies prefer to work in other jobs rather than in prosecutions such as, say, lawyers and other promising jobs suitable for legal professions. Of course, we do not claim that the current prosecutors are therefore incompetent or under-professional, but that fact certainly does not contribute to the effectiveness and effectiveness of our prosecutors. For these reasons, we also support the supplement for state prosecutors in management functions. However, the second amendment or second set of amendments introduced by the law in question relate to the powers of a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime, or to the previous group of state prosecutors for specific cases. This topic was also the focus of the Internal Policy Committee's meeting. We support the proposed regulation in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The fact is that the current rules of competence of the Commission do not correspond to or ensure the necessary effectiveness of the work of that group. The new proposal for the regulation of this jurisdiction provides for a broader or leave it to the Attorney General's Office to decide in certain cases whether or not a case should be dealt with within the framework of the organised crime prosecution group. Such an arrangement, of course, potentially allows the High Prosecutor of the Organised Crime Group to assign cases that do not affect the group. However, it must be noted that organised crime is a very vague area and it is difficult to clearly define it. On the other hand, the Attorney General, by his decision, also assumes responsibilities, and this seems to be the most important thing in the amendments and amendments to the law under consideration. The High Prosecutor should take the necessary responsibility, but we are confident that he will decide on the basis of the facts. Thus, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support and vote in favour of the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable present. In front of us is the second of three so-called blurry laws. Misrepresentative in terms of transparency, which the Minister has so vehemently advocated when we discussed the law on public sector wages and, of course, the decree. The proposed amendments and additions are intended to provide a legal basis for the successful implementation of the reform of the public sector wage system, in the work relating to the salaries of public prosecutors. The proposed legislation on salaries and other salaries of state prosecutors and state prosecutors' assistants is also intended to ensure legal certainty in this area, the first and in our opinion the only important part of this law. I have heard quite a few words in the performance presentations on how this law should increase efficiency in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office and the state's judiciary in general. I must say that, alone and in the Slovenian National Party's Group, we are not convinced that this is the actual purpose of the law, because if the proposaler's wish to actually increase efficiency, it would be the systemic arrangements of this law, not the solutions, as proposed in two parts. We are also convinced that by the adoption of this law, the law you will adopt in the government coalition will lead to an even greater gap between the judiciary and the other branches of government. The law and the system, if viewed as a whole, clearly indicate that wages will essentially increase to those in the right customer line. As far as the financial implications are concerned, some of the talk has already been about this and the law itself states that the law will have no financial implications. Of course, we cannot agree. It also says that the law follows some saving of the country and if we have taken a good look at the law on the public sector's wage system, we can see that the state will not "spoil" even enough to pay back everything it has to pay back in the so-called public litigation, where prosecutors have made their mistakes and are still doing them, to all those who have been in detention for many years and are now suing the country for some compensation. It is our belief that the judicial branch of power is somehow alone today with the adoption of this law and the adoption of the law that follows it is the law on judicial service, the crown for some kind of "holy cow" in this country. And I must tell you that we will not participate in this enthronement in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, this is the debate on articles and amendments tabled. In accordance with the review of the amendments tabled on 3 February, we have one article and only one amendment from the LDS Group to this Article. I'm asking, by this point, has anyone else tabled any amendments, and maybe there's no information here yet? No, no, no. This is said to be the final list of debaters who wish to discuss Article 24 and the amendment of the LDS Group. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Pavlich. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Pavlich, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much very much for your good morning, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with your co-worker and co-worker! Dear colleagues, as much as he insists on this Monday morning. There are at least four reasons why we in the Liberal Democracy Group strongly doubt that the main purpose of these legal changes is inspired by the profession, but we believe that it is inspired by politics to smell strongly of the "little fide" approach, not "bona fide". And that's why we tabled an amendment. Allow me to briefly describe all these four reasons relating to the present amendment. The first reason, of course, is the procedure itself. We have spoken about this in the College of Presidents, but in our view, as has already been said, this is not one of the conditions envisaged for an emergency procedure, it is not a difficult remedial effect, but it is even less a solution to any consequences of catastrophic accidents. The second reason is simply to rename the group as a group for special matters, but as they say under old Roman law, that only a wrong or a different concept does not mean anything dramatic, "false nominatio non vinegar". Of course, if we take a closer look, we can see that there are also many different powers behind this different designation. It now seems that even prosecutors and prosecutors, who will be united in this group, will be able to prosecute all crimes, not only those for whom they have jurisdiction until now, so that they can even prosecute crimes that are being prosecuted in private. This could, of course, motivate the group to take a closer look at what is going on under the magnifying glass. Such an extension of power is, in our opinion, extremely dangerous, especially if we abolish commissions on one side, reorganise them on the other, of course, we have with people because of some vague goals, perhaps more in the style of the great leader's wish to make this land right. The third reason, of course, is most closely linked to our amendment. In fact, if you carefully read Article 24, paragraph 3, and this is also a question for the esteemed Secretary of State, Mr Marolt, we can explain this by making this provision on the introduction or involvement of a specific group, in fact, secret or inaccessible at some point. If that is not the case, of course it is necessary to say this properly, not only in an explanation that is not part of the legal text, but, of course, in the law itself. It states as follows: "The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 4 and 5a of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, therefore, simply stated those provisions relating to the allocation of a particular case to a specific group, shall be made available to natural and legal persons by virtue of the jurisdiction of the indictment or not later than two years before the expiry of the prosecution. What about in the meantime? And a fourth reason. The fourth reason concerns the financial aspect. We have talked about this quite a bit on Friday, and the fact is that in explaining these changes you are talking about the budget rebalancing, aware of probably a much broader scope of work that awaits prosecutors and this particular group. But you will surely tell me that these changes have been prepared months and months in advance, months before the adoption of the 2006 and 2007 budget. That is why I am interested in why neither the budget nor the tolar is intended for the extra work of the prosecutors. Here, if you could speak more graphically, something smells. That is why, of course, we cannot support this law. With the amendment, we try to remedy the law at least in a fraction, but there may still be an opportunity to eliminate these dilemmas or to solve the problem of both judicial backlogs and the prosecution of serious crimes, I stress, only the most serious or most serious crimes are dealt with in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you. Since the list of discussers has been concluded, I am concluding the debate on the amendment. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Potts, I made a list of the discussers, a warning. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. Procedurally, Mr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Look, at this point in the agenda, we booked two hours and 25 minutes of time. You yourself said at a meeting or at your college several times that we have only 65% of the benefits. Why not, in this case, when only one debater, Mr Potč, is still speaking, not to give a word just because of some formality, just because he did not sign up in the first round. And if I'm not mistaken, we "accounted" with these circles a few months ago; we just said we could apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Procedural proposal, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	My procedural proposal is to give Mr. Runaway a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	We're at point 15. I think it was clear enough. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! As already mentioned today and last week, the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service is necessary to implement a reform of the system of public sector wages in the work relating to judges' salaries. In addition, the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service regulates in a somewhat different way the system of progress of judges. In this way, judges will advance in salary classes to a higher court office, a higher court name, and the position of a saint. An important novelty is the promotion of judges into a higher court order without moving to a higher court or to another court. It is simply a matter of ensuring that judges are more stable in the District and District Courts. The draft law regulates the judge's right to basic wages, as well as the right to work for work and to work for additional work performance, all under the conditions governed by this bill and the law on the public sector wage system. We are therefore reintroducing a part of the salary for work performance, which, according to the new one, will be eligible for the judge who will achieve the average work results in the course of the year, or who will be burdened by an average working burden. This part of the salary may, in accordance with the Public Sector Wages Act, amount to a maximum of two basic monthly salaries per year for the judge, with the total amount of resources for the payment of work performance in the individual court being limited. The criteria for payment of labour performance will be laid down by the Judicial Council with a reasonable application of the Public Sector Wage System Act and the Public Sector Collective Contract. If a judge is employed or assigned to a court and the implementation of the rationalisation programme achieves savings in the amount of remuneration, the new judge will also be paid a part of the salary for additional work performance, with a maximum of three basic monthly wages. Furthermore, the proposal also provides a legal basis for the payment of the increased labour or the average workload of judges, with the conditions, criteria and extent of payment for the increased work being determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a regulation. On the basis of this provision of the bill, the judge will be able to conclude a special agreement with the President of the Court on the increased workload or the over-average workload at a certain time and receive a specific payment from this title for the increased workload or the over-average burden. All the provisions of the proposed law provide for the incentive award of those judges who will achieve the average working results and contribute to the abolition of judges of arrears. The law also newly regulates certain supplements that have not yet been received by judges. That is, a mentoring allowance for a maximum of 20 hours per month, with a mentoring allowance set at 15% of the hourly rate of the basic salary of the mentor and charged only for the time when the judge works under the conditions under which the allowance is due. The fact is that judges train young lawyers, young lawyers, who are preparing for the legal examination. And this mentoring allowance has not been received by judges so far. It also introduces to judges an allowance for specialization, Master’s degree or doctorate, amounting to 10,000 dollars gross for specialization, 15,000 dollars gross for the Master’s degree and 25,000 dollars gross for the doctorate. An allowance for bilinguality is further introduced, then an allowance for work in less favourable working conditions and an allowance for work in less favourable working hours, such as an allowance for the time of preparation and an allowance for on-call time. It is also important that, with the proposed amendment of the law, judges are now entitled to an on-call allowance at a time when they are not allocated at full-time at a rate of 100% hourly basic salary. Next. The bill eliminates the non-compliance of the current law with the Constitution established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with this Constitutional Court decision, the amendment of the law provides that the Council of Justice will have to deliver a proposal for an election or a decision to appoint all candidates who have applied for vacant seats and their applications have not been rejected or rejected for formal reasons. A further amendment to the law is that the amount of compensation paid by judges for the first 30 days of retention from work due to illness or injury not related to work is reduced from the current 100% to 80%. It is a matter of unity with all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia when receiving remuneration, because for our reason there is no reason for the difference in the amount of remuneration received. The amendment of the Law on Judicial Service amends the period of the assessment of the judicial service by assessing every three years by means of the proposed amendment, following the law in force, the judge shall be assessed every six years. With the proposed amendment of the law, the initial judge will be evaluated each year, after which the law currently in force is assessed every other year. As a result, the period of evaluation of the judicial service in the future will coincide with the period of progress of judges in salary classes, i.e. every three years. The arrangements for the allocation and relocation of judges are also being amended to ensure greater mobility of judges according to the needs of individual courts, which can make a significant contribution to the objective of remedying judicial backlogs. The institution of relocation to another court of the same or lower status shall be amended by transferring the judge to the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and not to the joint proposal of the Presidents of both courts, since the President of the Supreme Court is the highest official of the judiciary and is also the most responsible for its effective implementation and has a review of the overall situation in the judiciary. However, the system of awarding judges within the Court of Justice shall be amended so that, under the same conditions as before, for example, if it is necessary to eliminate delays in the Court of Justice, by consent or without consent, the judge may be assigned to another court of the same or lower position, with the proposal of the Act amending the maximum duration of the individual allocation, which, after new allocations, will be up to two years, irrespective of the reason. However, the judge’s consent to be assigned will always be necessary if it is to be assigned to a court which is more than 70 kilometres from the place of the court where it is appointed, if the judge is pregnant or breast-feeding or if the judge is nursing a child under 3 years of age. A further amendment is that the time limits in the selection procedures of the judges are reduced or set to a new one, thereby significantly reducing the selection procedures of the judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the message of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	At its 14th emergency session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Service. The representative of the proposal submitted a supplementary explanation to the article of the bill stating that the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service was necessary in order to implement the reform of the public sector wage system in the work relating to the salaries of judges. The bill follows precisely and consistently the system of wage regulation, wage work and allowances, as prescribed by the system law on the public sector wage system. In connection with the new pay system, the bill's proposal otherwise governs the system of progress of judges; the important novelty of the law is the promotion of judges to a higher court title without moving to a judicial seat in a higher court. The bill also completely newly regulates the right to pay for work and also the right to pay for additional work performance under the conditions governed by this bill and the law on the public sector wage system. The applicant also pointed out that the amendment of the law regulates the novelty in order to enable the judge to conclude a specific agreement with the President of the Court on the increased workload or the over-average workload within a certain period of time and to receive a specific payment from this title for the increased workload or over-average burden. The applicant also explained that the proposal for a law governs those additives which belong to the judge according to the nature of the function, taking into account certain specificities. Above all, it is to perform on-call service, home readiness, work in bilingual areas, mentoring and allowances for specialization, Master's degree and doctorate, which is not regulated in the law in force. The bill also eliminates the non-compliance of the current law with the Constitution. The amount of compensation for judges for the first 30 days, the retention from work due to sickness or non-working injury shall be reduced from the current 100% to 80% in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained in the introduction that the proposer, with the proposed amendments to the Committee, took into account the written comments of that service to a large extent, with the exception of the comments to Article 20 and Article 29 of the Law. The proposed law was also expressed by the invited representatives of the judiciary. Thus, the President of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana presented the initiative of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and the President of the Slovenian Judicial Society presented written proposals from this company, as well as the Secretary of the Judicial Council. The written opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia shows that the State Council Commission for the Political System supports the bill's proposal, but considers that the provisions on the pay system of judges undermine the consistency and uniformity of the pay system of officials and public servants. Members and members of the committee did not discuss the draft law, no amendments were tabled to the proposal. However, the committee adopted some of its amendments and eventually supported all the articles of the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act. The fact is that in Slovenia, despite numerous warnings from the European institutions, judicial backlogs have not been sufficiently reduced. Since the judiciary alone has not been able to make an alarming situation in the field of judicial backlog by appropriate measures within the existing legislation, it is logical that the Government has decided to have a more direct impact on the courts and judges in the effectiveness of their work by means of a corresponding legislative amendment. In view of the new wage system based on the law on the public sector wage system and the proposed decision on the salaries of officials, it is understandable that one part of the proposed amendments relates to compliance with this system. On the basis of this harmonisation, the arrangements for the progress of judges in payment classes, in the higher title, in the higher judicial post and in the position of saints shall be changed. The proposed amendments also eliminate the constitutional non-compliance established by the Constitutional Court with regard to the provision of legal protection for judicial candidates who have not been selected in the appointment process. The law also amounts to compensation for absence of work, due to the hospital stock with all other employees in the public sector who receive 80% compensation at that time and not 100% as judges and other officials, this has been the case so far. All other amendments relate to conditions for more efficient work of the courts and judges with the aim of better and faster trial, while reducing judicial backlogs. Here I am thinking of changes in the drafting of an assessment of the judicial service, changes in the transfer of judges to other courts, then changes in the reduction of deadlines, all in order to increase the mobility of judges and thus to improve the efficiency of the judiciary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we welcome the Minister's determination to take action to achieve a better and more effective trial. We believe that the adoption of the proposed law will be one step towards this objective. Unfortunately, in recent years neither the government nor the Ministry of Justice have done everything that it should have done to make a significant improvement in the alarming situation. If we did, today's situation would be much better, and Minister Sturm wouldn't have to start practically from the beginning. The law is therefore good and necessary, so the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Ms Darja Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the LDS, we support the idea of a law on judicial service, which brings innovations that will allow additional awards to be made to those judges who in the course of the current year will achieve the average work results and assess the judicial service every three years and not six as yet, and the assessment of the initial judge for the first three years each year. The bill also provides a legal basis for the reform of the public sector wage system in the work relating to the salaries of judges. However, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service cannot be adopted without any doubt. Wage reform has promised to eliminate imbalances between officials or public servants and is now being regulated so that most judges remain at the level of government officials. In addition, the number of cases resolved has become too important a criterion for assessing the judge's work. In order to reduce judicial backlogs, the justice minister promises a stimulating reward. Of course, in the LDS, we do not know how to imagine such stimulation without further pressure on the budget, although the Minister of Justice claims otherwise. We are also wondering what travel for the implementation of the so-called Lukend project is almost at the same time a reduction in judicial salaries and a rise in judicial standards. In this way, more work is announced to judges for less payment. At the same time, we fear that the judges will again start going to other, better paid legal professions, which will cause more problems in the work of the courts and, consequently, in reducing judicial backlogs. In addition to rejecting the amendment of the law, we are told by a sharp protest of judicial types, the main message of which is that the current authority does not fully respect the constitutional principle of the division of power in Slovenia. We also expected that Minister Sturm would at least come to Parliament today to convince Members that his proposal for a law was good. However, we are again convinced that he is not interested in participating in the National Assembly when it comes to dealing with laws with his department. So it is a very sort of arrogance on his part, and on behalf of the LDS Club, I must say that we strongly oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to speak. When proposing amendments and supplementing the Judicial Service Act, we would like to point out in the introduction that so far all governments and all justice ministers have proposed a series of amendments to the National Assembly, all with the aim of gradually resolving the biggest problem of justice, namely judicial backlogs. In the National Assembly, at least as regards the Socialist Group of Members, when we were in opposition and when we were in the government, we have always supported all the proposals, always on the ground that we want this problem to be resolved more effectively. Unfortunately, we must find that there have never been full effects so far. We are not among those who claim that there have been no effects. They were because the backlogs did not increase because there was also a reduction in judicial backlog at certain levels of court, but there is no full effect and we are still a country which certainly cannot be counted within a reasonable time as a special feature of the functioning of justice. This time, too, the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law is partly justified by the speedy resolution of judicial arrears, and we would like to say that we would expect the justice minister to present his project to Members and Members of the National Assembly in a much clearer way than she has presented it, only in a way that enables more successful, quantitatively more successful judges to be able to obtain a special incentive award, in a way that I must say, at least as far as I am concerned, Members and Members are concerned, no one has presented it more thoroughly, no one has given the criteria more thoroughly, no one has said whether there is a programme or not. However, promises have been made that this project will be effective in approximately the next ten years. We believe that we wish him success, but I am not sure that only promises can guarantee it. Otherwise, the reason for adopting this law by emergency procedure is mainly the pay system. This is also the reason why we reject this law, because we believe that we have made sufficient arguments in relation to the amendments and additions to the law on the public sector's wage system, which makes it impossible to accept this law even for the judiciary. What's this all about? A distinction shall be introduced under the single system; decisions shall be taken which constitute an intervention in the rights acquired and retroactively so. Thirdly, there are principles under which a certain part of the remuneration rights should be governed not only by laws but also by decrees, which means the powers of the executive branch of power over an equal or at least a seemingly equal judiciary. Four. It is not possible and it is not right to regulate the pay system without criteria as they give the Minister responsible for justice the power to reward specific achievements. At the end. At the same time, in the view of all the authorities in the judiciary acting as an organised form of the actions of judges, the true judiciary, the Council of Justice and the like point out that the law is unacceptable to them, that it will mean a reduction in wages, that it is controversial from the point of view of the Constitution and that we do not understand that this government is so carefree at least to that branch of authority which is supposed to be with it, as an enforceable, equal, those branches of authority which imposes full new obligations and high expectations and ultimately those branches of authority which know something by law and by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Potch. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	The aim of amending and supplementing the Judicial Service Act is in particular to establish a new wage system in the public sector. The amendments relate to the Wage System Act and the Staff Regulations. The proposal regulates the right to compensation for salary allowances, the amount of the positional allowance, part of the salary for work performance and the conditions for the implementation of specific programmes for the resolution of judicial arrears. The amendments also lay down the legal basis for payment of salary allowances due to the enforcement of duty and readiness. The amendment of the Law on Judicial Service eliminates non-conformity with the Constitution, the remuneration for absence due to disease decreases to 80% and facilitates the redeployment and mobility of judges due to the new programme for the abolition of judicial backlogs. In accordance with the amendments submitted, the President will be left to the Court of Justice to decide how many judges and who will carry out the increased workload and how many. The decision on the amount of the allowance, as well as the part of the salary for the work performance of the individual judge. The government will lay down the conditions, criteria and payment for greater work or additional workloads by means of a regulation. The Court of Justice is subject to a certain allowance for additional work performance and its height is limited to a maximum of 3 basic salaries of the judge, the monthly salary of the judge. In what numbers will the judicial authorities agree, the executive authority can be judged because it is not known what the actual interest will be between the judges. After the initial responses, however, they show an interest in working more, especially by showing interest in young judges. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service are also such as the amendments to the Law on Public Prosecutions, which we have dealt with earlier and which are linked to the regulation of the system of public sector wages. The amendment of the system of progress of judges is an important novelty of the law under consideration. In this context, it is particularly important that judges be promoted to higher judicial titles, without being transferred to a judicial seat in a higher court. Such arrangements will enable, at least I hope, improvements in the work of judges, particularly in district courts, as judges will be able to advance to a higher title and thus receive a higher salary without having to be transferred to another post in higher courts. We expect that this will enable more quality and better work of judges, since judges with more experience and knowledge will be able to work in the same courts or in courts of the same position for higher pay. And that this will also contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs, as judicial backlogs are still too much of a problem in our country. Despite many attempts to reduce these setbacks, we have not yet been successful. In this regard, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the new law on the right to pay for work and also the right to work pays for additional work performance under the conditions governed by this bill and the law on the public sector wage system. We expect that this novelty will further stimulate judges to carry out their work more intensively, and that these legislative changes will at least partially help to reduce judicial backlogs in our judiciary. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore support amendments to the Judicial Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bajc. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we hope that the troika, which is at this meeting, the troika, which consists of three laws, the State Defence Act, the Prosecutor's Law and the Judicial Service Act, do not constitute an integrated government plan to reduce judicial backlogs, how to make the judiciary in such a form, so not only will the two branches of government remain, but, above all, citizens and citizens are proud of it. It is estimated that the experiments of this mandate so far are not sufficient. We believe that with an exclusive instrument of money, even in the judiciary, things cannot be completely changed. And for the introduction of the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, let me say that we partly agree with the Socialist Group of Members, but our action, our proposed action, is different. We believe and know that we are not half-men and we know the history of the past as well as of these governments, which have tried with minimal changes to the judicial system within our country. With such changes, which, hand to heart, have so far not led to the effect that we could say, so, we have taken a step that has helped reduce judicial backlogs when we say we have taken the step with which we are pleased. The fact is that the judiciary is the least successful within our country. That they are as enforceable as the legislative branch are clearly much more, not only more transparent, but more effective and, to the extent possible, citizens and citizens. In the framework of the proposed law, which we meet at a given time, the bill-maker, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, therefore, stresses that the change in the salary system based on the law we have recently adopted will change the attitude of judges, for the first time to pending cases, and for the second time to past cases. Within the framework of the National Party, we do not believe in this and as the only proposed measure under this law. We do not believe and it does not seem fair to us that a meaningful judicial profession is still a struggle to distance itself from all other professions in our country. We don't believe and it doesn't seem fair to us that it's right for someone to reduce their own judicial backlogs by 200%. And we don't think it's right for someone to reduce their own colleague's judicial backlogs by 300%. It's unacceptable, according to our assessment. It is not a profession in our country that would intervene so radically and so richly to reward all those who normally fulfil their work obligations for the backlog of work. According to our assessment, it must be as a result of meeting these obligations of course, paying rather than rewarding. The award, at least according to our assessment, should be a supplement for something more than a certain standard. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has joined another strategy here. Unfortunately, we believe that such a strategy will not be successful, especially if we take into account the absolute developments in the framework of the national assembly and, of course, the executive branch of power. All of us, and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, too, know that, at the present time, there is also a significant change in the situation in the proposal for constitutional changes in the judiciary. And according to our assessment, it would be advisable to wait first for the amendment of the highest legal act which fundamentally interferes with the system of functioning of the judiciary and then to adapt or reward judges and all those associated with them. There have been many partial measures, as proposed by the Act, in the past. In the last four years alone, we have not changed the law many times, nor have we increased the financial resources allocated to the judiciary, but there has been no impact. And if the other parliamentary groups that you intend to support this law are satisfied that you are simply accepting something to accept, and there is no result of that, we cannot attach such work to the national party. That is why we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Well, the Law on Judicial Service actually reflects the last refrain on the basic melodies, which was set up by the Law on the Pay System in the public sector. It's been all about variations on the same subject for a week, as some famous rocker would say. The DeSUS Group did not support the basic law and, of course, it cannot support those made of it. The decisions were, as we recall, very close and it was a characteristic that it was only because the vote was not as predicted, that the law was also adopted. We are at peace in the DeSUS Group in this regard. While our decisions have not been supported, we rely on a familiar thought that says, "Blessed are those who can be proud of their defeats, and woe to those who must be ashamed of their victories." Or, in other words, woe to those who had to take their own word. This law, which we are currently considering, nevertheless has a number of items, has a number of articles that we support, in particular those that have already been established in some other branches - compliance with the Labour Relations Act [[That's a hell of a hospital.]] . We also support compliance with our Constitution, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court, with regard to non-delivery of undeclared decisions, and with regard to evaluation and progress, with the provision of greater mobility for those who should abolish judicial backlogs, and, of course, it is essential that these judicial backlogs actually be reduced. However, the basic, that is to say, those basic topics, which were set up a week ago, which is also repeated in this law, are not supported by the DeSUS Group. The key objective is, as we all know, and as we are all now repeating for a few days now, the establishment of a common long-term salary system, the reduction of the costs of budgetary expenditure on salaries, as well as those to which we call public servants and former employees in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the judiciary is concerned, we must also say that there has been no harassment of the proposed amendments to this law. That - I was alone in the session - everyone protested loudly and that they viewed what was accepted as something that was disstimulating for the judicial branch of power. Despite the fact that there are some good and urgent solutions in the law and because it is a matter of perpetuation, there is a repetition of what we disagree with, but we cannot provide active support for the proposed changes and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, this is the debate on articles and amendments tabled. So far, I have received the LDS Amendment to Article 32 and no other. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the amendment reproduces and you will get it on the bench, so allow me to read it. In the second paragraph of Article 32, the text of the court in which it is appointed shall be replaced by the text of the permanent residence of the Judge allocated. Once again, the Court in which it is appointed shall be replaced by the text of the permanent residence of the Judge assigned. Anybody want to talk? Pavliha, who else wants to discuss Article 32 and the amendment tabled? Mr. Potts. Anyone else? I am opening the debate on Article 32 and the amendment to Article 32. Mr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, again for your word. So we tabled the amendment for a simple reason. Indeed, the law now allows the court in which the judge works to be 70 kilometers away from permanent residence and, as it is now written, it would, of course, be hypothetically possible for a judge to drive 140 kilometers away without consent. That is why we believe that this change would eliminate this danger and at the same time not cause any additional bureaucratic work. So much for our amendment to Article 32. However, allow me to say a few more words, when I am speaking, of course, about both the amendment and the law as a whole. Mr President, there is probably nothing wrong with that we have two hours and 25 minutes to discuss again. I would just like to say that, unlike the previous law, we support these changes in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. I think that these changes are good, that they are urgent, and if they can only contribute to the resolution of judicial backlogs, then of course they have achieved their purpose. We also support greater mobility of judges, as different courts across Slovenia are burdened. Of course, judges are trained and capable, and such a change will enable them to do even better and more where needed. However, it does not go without certain concerns, which, in my opinion, are also aware of the proposals and which will require certain both legal and other interventions. These concerns are as follows. First time. Thus, the salary reform we discussed last week, as well as the current amendments to the Law on Judicial Service, will not, in our opinion, contribute to the greater motivation of judges, particularly in the District Courts, i.e. in the former core courts, which are the most burdensome. If the district judge has the lowest pay grade as well as the mayor of the municipality, who has less than 2 000 employees, then of course we cannot expect better lawyers or lawyers to decide on this profession and, of course, we cannot expect to prevent fluctuations. Experience in recent years has shown that district judges and judges, especially because of their poor salary, are tired of this profession and go to better paid legal professions, such as lawyering, notary, the economy and could also be listed. Another time. Let us say that, of course, merely sharpening quantitative criteria without qualitative criteria will not motivate them to do better and more. Of course, changing judicial service into a running lane can have terrible consequences again, and the LUKENDA project can still be read on paper. If it does not have a substantive dimension, then tomorrow something can happen, not only that we will have judges and judges on the roads who will strike, but we will also have them on the roads because they will rather be unemployed than that they will be performing a judicial service that has already received contempt, contempt and criticism in recent times, as if they were on duty guilty of all the problems that are taking place in this country. At the same time, allow me to reiterate Article 133 of the Constitution, which provides for the incompatibilities of the judicial function, what this means in practice. This in practice means that the vast majority of judges and judges do not have any additional earnings, which are already earned by almost the majority of executive officials today. The salary they receive at the end of the month is, of course, to be taken into account. Another final comment on the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts, and these too, will be based on the current legislative changes and, of course, also on the work relating to mobility and on our amendment very, very large powers. But does this mean that they will also have greater powers in the sense of judging or a larger piece of cake, which, of course, will have to be cut not only but also digested. Our opinion is no. Our view is that the vice presidents are just one of the same. And here again we remind ourselves of the contradiction that we witnessed to him on Friday. On the one hand, on the one hand, the presidents and vice-presidents, in terms of financial, will now be significantly more motivated than, for example, the District Judges for their work - and Minister Virant says that this is due in particular to the nature of their work, which is more in management, in the management of matters, and on the other hand, Dr. Sturm's Minister is making this clear, for example, to Mr Zalar, that he is too burdened with management and too little with trial. Where is the true balance now that the wolf will be full and the goat will be whole? In short, if I come back, please, colleagues and colleagues, to support our amendment. At the same time, I once again ask the Secretary of State to convey our concerns to Minister Sturm and to remind him of our wish that perhaps at the next meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice we might also see him and ask him ourselves something; we do not mean that you are not doing well, but that the Minister will ever be present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The proposed solutions in Article 32 of the Law are one of many administrative solutions that seek to ensure a more successful work of justice. I want the Justice Minister to succeed in such an effort, but personally, in all success, I doubt that the success of the work of justice with administrative solutions cannot be fully realized. If we have at the same time more powers as the leaders in the judiciary and at the same time much greater dissatisfaction in the judiciary, which has been shown in recent days with regard to all the criticism concerning the adoption of the law on the public sector wage system and the law on judicial service, then it is probably not a parallel and coherent process that could give hope for much greater efficiency in justice. I firmly believe that we should all do much more to ensure, in addition to efforts to do better, that we also increase the autonomy, independence and respect of the judiciary in order to make it attractive, not a profession, but a responsible task. Today, however, many are considered and understood completely degraded because everyone in the public and private sphere of the work of justice can speak, think, evaluate it at any time and in any way directly to himself. I must say that many of my colleagues, including professors from the Faculty of Law, have warned me that the paths we have taken in recent years to deal with justice issues are not necessarily effective and good, because they are primarily related to administrative channels, because they are linked in many ways to political interference in justice, even in the way that we here in the National Assembly want to assess many times the specific issues of the functioning of the judiciary in the trial process, which is not our task and should not allow ourselves to do so, because, in a similar way, even the investigative commissions that we set up in the National Assembly, and all of this certainly cannot do much to solve the extremely responsible and difficult tasks that our judiciary has. Therefore, I think that only by increasing the distance within which it is possible to temporarily deploy judges, that only within the framework of the greater powers that I think the Minister will be given non-systemically for the additional distribution of salaries to the judges, we will not solve all that lies ahead of us in the field of justice, and again I am pleased to say that my colleague, Dr. Pavliha, has mentioned that his initiative has also been at the meeting of the home working body, in order to receive as soon as possible a comprehensive programme for the resolution of the justice issue, that the Minister of Justice would not, in his statements on certain concrete initiatives to which the judiciary is coming, I also think related to the judicial mandate, have every month or two in the nances and in the important content of the very different views, once a critical, once a systemical, once a justiceable party, to which it is due, I also think that the interests of the judiciary may not always change the demands and the conditions for them to constantly be judged, that they are not always do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you. He also discussed Article 32 and the amendment to Article 32. I'd like you to call me the next time I call the discussers. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	Mr. President! I hope that, by the end of the debate, you will not limit our communication to the word, because there is no record of me having to come forward when you call, but in the light of the debate that it has been. We have a debate on the law following the urgent procedure stated how much time there is for a group of Members and I have come forward when I have assessed that there is still something to add to what they have already said or have not said to my colleague, Mr Pavliha and Mr Ptrč. You are probably aware, Mr President, that we have tabled an amendment to Article 32 in order to test on this amendment what is actually the purpose of the law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service. Is the purpose, as it is called, in the normal partnership between the administration of courts, within the judiciary and in the relationship between the Ministry of Justice and this judicial branch of government, in fact, to recognize its independence. We propose, Mr Secretary of State, that there is no Minister, so I cannot refer another to the fact that the judge's consent is, in fact, the basis for moving him and taking into account those 70 kilometres as a distance between the place of his permanent residence and the court, in order not to send a judge with permanent residence in Trbovje, who is working in Celje today, who is not satisfied with him, to Maribor. This would interest us further in the debate, and I hope that you will allow the government to come forward when it wants the government to answer in some way, whether it is acceptable for it. If this is acceptable to the government, then we will assess that these changes, both in this law and in the previous one, are well-intentioned and that you really want to improve the problems in the judiciary, it is said, by stimulating the rewards that will allow faster than ever to eliminate judicial backlogs. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not shown this so far, nor in the preparation of the 2005 budget balance, nor in the 2006 and 2007 budgets. In this regard, we believe that the adoption of this amendment will confirm that the judiciary understands the problems in the judiciary and that, together with full respect for the independence of the judiciary, it also wishes to resolve these problems. I regret that some ministers came earlier, but some were not at all, because we did not prevent the debate at the previous point, but Mr President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendment. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	Mr. President, look. I would ask you kindly to listen to our debate and, if possible, before you break the point, allow my procedural proposal. But my procedural proposal is nothing but what we came here for. We made the amendment, the amendment was designed. Two of us discussed him, including Mr Potch. And we asked only one matter at a second reading for the government to tell us its position on this amendment. And as a minimum, it would be right to at least, I don't know, look around the hall to see whether or not a government representative might have made himself available before you conclude the debate, taking into account what is clearly clear under the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a Member shall have the right to make a procedural proposal in order to enable him to do so. You can't stop and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Mr. Squeakle, what's the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	My procedural, I'll tell him, let me, see, I have three minutes to explain, if you'll excuse me. I have 3 minutes to explain, don't interrupt me, because within these three minutes, I will explain the reasons for making a procedural proposal and submitting it. Thank you. I have come forward with a procedural proposal because, as with the first item of today's agenda, you may not be necessary quickly, perhaps Minister Viszak is in a hurry, but you did not necessarily finish the debate without listening to the content of the debate as Chairman, and on the basis of the content of the debate, perhaps as Presidents themselves have called on the government to define itself for this proposal. However, if this is not necessary, if we are just coming to this national assembly to listen, I don't know, to some government representatives, to listen to the views of the parliamentary groups, but there is no debate here, but there is a unilateral presentation of opinions and we don't even get a direct response to the amendment proposal and at the request of the government to define this amendment, we have two options. One option is, of course, to vote procedurally and to return the point and give the government the opportunity to respond. However, the second procedural option is to request the Government's written opinion on this amendment and, of course, we cannot conclude the agenda items at this meeting. That is why I propose, Mr President, that you put the vote on a procedural basis, that the representative of the Government is allowed to be defined by the amendment, that he is not familiar with the amendment and that we, of course, hear the opinion on this basis. Otherwise, we will demand that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be defined in writing before the vote, whenever this afternoon. This would be the normal order in any country where parliaments are discussing. What you are doing today is unilaterally preparing opinions and not allowing a serious debate, so I protested and I ask you to put a procedural proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Mr. Squeakle, in this exhibition of yours is a kind of insinuation and a short bit of stupidity and insult. A government representative shall have the right to participate in the debate at any time, at any time, only to raise his hand. I've never seen her before. However, I am certainly not the one who is to call upon the government to answer that he should speak, I do not have this right. However, if the government wants to answer some questions, I will allow it, despite the fact that we have completed the point. But does the government want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll answer that there won't be any confusion. We oppose this amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. The fact is that the law in force is adequately regulated that a judge may also be assigned without consent to perform judicial service in another court. It is therefore a possibility that it may be allocated, not a mandatory allocation. I would also like to point out that this will not be decided by the Minister of Justice, but is the decision-making power of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Industrial Property Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! The Industrial Property Act was adopted in 2001 and then two other amendments to Article 131 relating to representatives were adopted in 2002 and 2004. The proposed law before you, honourable Members, aligns the Industrial Property Act with the provisions of the directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. The proposed amendments to the law protect the position of holders of industrial property rights, namely patent holders, models and brands, in the exercise of their rights in civil proceedings, in particular in the event of serious infringements of rights such as trade in counterfeit and pirated goods. The amendments relate mainly to existing institutions in civil proceedings for the exercise of rights in the event of an infringement. The proposed solutions shall, to the extent possible, refer to the applicable arrangements in general rules such as the Bond Code, the Judicial Procedure Act and the Enforcement and Insurance Act. The law therefore lays down only those different conditions for the application of existing institutes which are necessary under the Directive, for example, in the case of claims which the right holder may enforce in actions, provisional orders, security of evidence of infringement, active legitimacy. The proposed solutions are set out in this law in the same way as in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on copyright and related rights. At the same time, the proposed law removes any subsequent shortcomings in the adoption of the specific provisions of the three Directives of the European Community. These proposed changes are less difficult and fully follow the solutions in the directives. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that the amended law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr William Rezman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much again. The Minister's presentation was brief, and this was also the case on the working body, and there is no reason for them to draw the work reported on this body in particular. Let me just say that the Government's proposal for a reduced procedure has been accepted, that the mother's working body has dealt with this in the presence of representatives of the Ministry, the Chamber of Commerce and the Legislative and Legal Service and has tried to follow those comments or opinions raised by the Legislative and Legal Service. The legislative and legal service of our state has highlighted some minor inconsistencies and four amendments have been drafted in this regard. Three of these four were also accepted, and one was, in fact, summarized in the second amendment. Let me just point out that there has been an error in the record, in the numbering of amendments, which, according to the content, does not change anything. The essence of the proposal is to coordinate, as the Minister has said, with the legal order of the European Union, that as far as possible we are protecting intellectual property, we are preventing the abuse of this intellectual property, piracy and all that interferes with this area unjustifiablely. After it was presented why this amendment and the amendment of the law go ahead, after the amendments were adopted, all the articles of the bill were also adopted, and the Committee proposes such an amended law to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Well-known, distinguished president, distinguished minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we will propose amendments to the Industrial Property Act. The basic reason for supplementing the law is to harmonise our legislation in this area with European Community law, in particular Directive 2004/48, which is similar to the one we last coordinated in the copyright and related rights law. We need to know that infringements of intellectual property rights are becoming increasingly common in cases of counterfeiting of goods, which seriously threaten national economies with their scale and international dimension. It is appropriate that national rules on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in all Member States of the European Union should be uniform and at the required level so as not to result in the production and sale of counterfeit goods, as is the case in those countries which do not have satisfactory arrangements or have poorer protection. It is precisely in order to prevent the spread of infringements of intellectual property rights that it is essential to harmonise procedural provisions on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the single market, which will be achieved by harmonising national laws with that Directive. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we are committed to promoting innovation and inventions in both economic and non-economic spheres, because this is the only way we will be established in a competitive and uncompromising world market. If violators do not have effective protection against infringements, this is a very poor signal for inventors and innovators, which consequently undermines the competitiveness of the economy. Today, it is clear to all of us that, due to the enormous development of technology, it is possible to conceal something and to alienate intellectual property against the law. Interestingly, there was no debate on the working body, such as the extensive discussion on copyright and related rights. We can explain that all instruments for the protection of intellectual property have been introduced into the proposed law, or we feel that it is more important to exercise some of those rights, which, at heart, are difficult for our group of Members, which have been referred to as intellectuals, which have been repeatedly referred to in the Committee and also in the National Assembly. In doing so, we do not want to or should not diminish the importance of true intellectual property in the field of culture, and it is right to stress this again, during the week of the Slovenian culture. Surely industrial property is very difficult in terms of economic visibility, so we will also support the proposed amendments to the law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Christian Janc. He's not here. Mr Bajc will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	I'm sorry, President. I'll be very brief. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Industrial Property Act, the reduced procedure, sets out only what is necessary in relation to European legislation or the European Directive for the use of already known and other law-abiding institutions. Given that the deadline for implementing these Directives has already expired, the proposed law must be adopted. The proposed changes are not difficult and do not bring significant innovations to change the legislation on industrial property, so the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As already proposed amendments to the law are necessary in order to comply with the directive on the introduction of intellectual property rights and relate to most of the existing institutions of civil procedures for the exercise of rights in the event of an infringement. I would only say that the deadline for the introduction of this Directive has not yet expired. The deadline is 29 April 2006. I am surprised that we are so good in all these European directives, and we also adopt unconstitutional laws in this national assembly, although the Constitutional Court can give any negative opinion on any law we can confirm. In this respect, we are in good and respectful compliance with all the provisions imposed on us by the various European Directives. The new institutes are in particular a plea in this bill and, of course, recalling the infringements, this is positive. A method has been added to determine the extent of the damage and the obligation to notify. All of these are positive things that need to be implemented into our existing law. We will therefore support this law in the Slovenian National Party. As it is said, we are also somewhat appalled because we are essentially immune to the decisions of the Constitutional Court and we also adopt unconstitutional laws in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	In the DeSUS Group, we favoured the law on copyright and related rights. This law is in a close relationship, so it is clear that we will also support the Industrial Property Act. It is particularly supported by the fact that we consider that intellectual property is universal property, that it must not be affected, and, as is universal right, that is to say, on the basis of everyday experience, the abuse or establishment of this right is universal. In view of this high prevalence of violations, the universal right to universal protection must be safeguarded by numerous plagiarisms, counterfeiting, and pirate goods. In this sense, we also understand this harmonisation and, in this sense, we also consider it right to try to prevent any grey foxes that would be less effective in our area, within the European Union. This protection is not just about ensuring the protection of authors, but also about protecting producers, including consumer protection, including for the protection of the free market, so to speak, to protect legitimate economic activity. This law also has an ambition to promote innovative activities, promote creativity, promote realisation and protect inventions and so on. What needs to be added, however, is that this interference with the rights of offenders would not go too far. Therefore, these measures should not be disproportionate or excessive. In particular because it is the right to seize products because it is the right to destroy goods, to secure evidence, to recall goods and to certain other institutions. As mentioned above, the DeSUS Group will support and contribute to this Industrial Property Act by voting for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished others present! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal for an industrial property law because the proposed amendments are necessary to bring the law into line with European Union law. The current law, which was adopted in 2001, regulates several industrial property rights, lays down procedures for their acquisition, maintenance of their validity during the period of time and judicial protection. Directive 2004/48 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the enforcement of intellectual property rights was adopted in 2004, with which the current Industrial Property Act has not yet been harmonised and must be harmonised by 29 April 2006 at the latest. The aim of the Directive is to harmonise the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the Member States of the European Community, as the harmonisation of national rules has so far focused mainly on material law and the directive also harmonises the procedural provisions of national rules governing the enforcement of intellectual property rights. These rights are increasingly being violated by counterfeit and pirated goods, which already seriously threatens national economies with its scale and international dimension. In order to prevent this, it is essential to simplify the procedural provisions on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the European Community's single market, which will be achieved by harmonising national legislation with the Directive. It is also important that the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights is also encouraged by innovation for the protection of intellectual creators and innovators, and consequently by the competitiveness of the economy, which prevents job losses, taxes and consumer damage. The proposed amendments and additions to laws in certain provisions also address the identified shortcomings in the transposition of the provisions of industrial property directives, which are not properly transposed into the Slovenian legal order and are less difficult in nature or even editorial. In this respect, some provisions have also been improved by the amendments adopted on the home working body. We will certainly support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ljubeljska. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the agenda with this. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the government representative for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. With regard to amendments to the asylum laws, I would like to provide some further clarifications. First of all, I would like to say that amendments and additions to the Asylum Act are necessary for the transposition of the Qualification and Procedural Directive, which gradually introduces the common asylum system in the European Union in line with the Hague Programme. The basic purpose of the bill is to introduce legal, effective and rapid asylum procedures that provide the necessary protection for third-country nationals and enable them to integrate into Slovenian society. The main novelties of the proposal are: the introduction of an international protection concept that sets out the extent of protection offered by the Republic of Slovenia in asylum proceedings by the so-called subsidiary form of protection. The concept of internal protection shall be introduced so as to allow a person to seek adequate protection in another part of his country declared as a safe part and a safe country of origin. The list of safe countries of origin may be adopted by both the European Council and such a list by the Slovenian Government. The definition of members of vulnerable groups of asylum seekers and persons in need of international protection is introduced. The law allows these persons to take positive measures of discrimination under conditions of reception, medical and psychological care. In order to increase the security of measures in the field of terrorism and to ensure adequate treatment of asylum procedures for third-country nationals who are in need of protection, a preliminary police hearing shall be introduced in cases where a foreigner enters or stays illegally in the Republic of Slovenia and has expressed the intention of making an application for asylum. In particular, I would like to point out that, in cooperation with the authorities responsible for the asylum procedure, the police do not decide on this procedure. A preliminary police hearing is also carried out in some other countries of the European Union or in the field of Europe. I would list some: Finland, France, Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, Norway, Switzerland and some others. The bill will complement the legal gap in the existing law regarding the accommodation of asylum seekers. They are generally located in an asylum home or exposition of the Ministry, where comprehensive care and accommodation is provided. Under the law, accommodation on private addresses will also be possible. The draft law provides that an asylum seeker may carry out work after one year of the application for asylum, as provided for in a large number of Member States of the European Union. Last but not least, in Slovenia we have a dictatorship in the Employment of Foreigners Act, which speaks of the employment of foreigners only after one year of stay in the Republic of Slovenia. As a second form of work, the proposal introduces assistance for maintenance works in an asylum home, for which we also anticipate the determination of certain awards. The bill introduces an integration house for refugees, for a period of up to one year after obtaining refugee status, and will focus on easier and faster integration of persons into Slovenian society. In view of the concerns expressed when considering the law on the home working body, the applicant considers that they are unfounded and some of them should be further clarified. With regard to the treatment of a foreigner who expresses his intention to apply for asylum and illegally enters or resides, the applicant reiterates that a police officer, in cooperation with the authority responsible for conducting the asylum procedure, must rightly be a condition "in cooperation", establishing the circumstances of illegal entry and stay - once again, pointing out the circumstances of entry and stay in the territory of the State - and determining whether the elements which are the subject of the asylum procedure are given. The law expressly states that this is not considered to be a decision of the police in the asylum procedure. A foreigner may re-explain his statement following the procedure, for example at the Centre for Foreigners, and be transferred immediately to an asylum home where the reception of an asylum application is organised. Protectors are also in double-trial protection under the Act on Offences and Immediate Transfer to Asylum Procedure in the event of a clearly expressed need for international protection. With regard to legal aid in asylum proceedings, the applicant points out that free legal aid is consistent with or in accordance with the so-called Qualifications Directive in the case of judicial protection, in our case, the administrative court - the Supreme Court - by the advisers for refugees who are chosen on the basis of the legal conditions chosen in the public tender. The applicant must describe in the stage I procedure, on the basis of the questions raised by the official, if necessary, after international protection, which events have given him or led him to leave his country because of the circumstances leading him or her to apply for asylum in our country. With regard to the right to work, we believe that asylum seekers come to Slovenia for protection because they are persecuted in their country of origin and not because of the need for work. This is how they need protection and not employment in the first place. Refugees, of course, have all the necessary care provided in an asylum home. Finally, it should be pointed out that the law also enhances certain rights in certain areas. The law will set up integration houses where asylum seekers will be resident. Vulnerable groups of asylum seekers and persons with international protection are defined, allowing them a range of positive discrimination measures. The determination of the substantive and time-consuming rights or the scope of the rights of the two statutes set out in the law. In addition, the law provides for the possibility of non-governmental organisations participating both in an asylum home and in an integration house. The higher level of rights will not least be affected by faster and more efficient procedures, as this will give all applicants who need protection this status sooner and faster. The refugee status changes their circumstances significantly and raises their level of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law at its 16th regular session. Amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SNS Group, the LDS Group of Members and the SD Group of Members. The representative of the proposer submitted a supplementary explanation to the article of the draft law, setting out in the introduction the basic reasons for the drafting of the amendment to the Asylum Act. This is the transfer of European Union law to the Slovenian legal order, the prevention of abuse of asylum procedures and the legalization of constitutional jurisprudence which was established in this area in the five years following its adoption in 1999. The representative further presented some of the most important solutions to the draft law, stressing that international protection is introduced by amendments and additions to the law, which represents a new type of protection that changes the scope and type of protection so far by introducing subsidiary protection instead of asylum for humanitarian reasons. At the same time, a single asylum procedure is being introduced, which means identifying the need for protection in one procedure, first of all the need for protection in accordance with the Convention on the Status of Refugees. If these conditions are not met, the conditions for subsidiary protection shall be laid down. The greatest advantage of a single asylum procedure is to accelerate the speed and efficiency of asylum procedures. An important novelty of the bill is the inclusion of the police in a previous asylum procedure dealing with a foreigner who enters or resides directly in the country, which is introduced mainly for security reasons or reasons for preventing organised crime and terrorism. The proposed amendments and additions deregulation of the appointment of first-degree consultants for refugees and reimbursement of representation costs. The draft law introduces the non-suspensive effect of the complaint against the decision on a third safe country, the so-called Dublin decision and the decision on the rejection of the application. The representative of the proposal also said that the drafter had also cooperated with non-governmental organisations in drafting the bill and had met several times with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and had also taken into account some of their comments. He also took great account of the legislative and legal comments and, on the basis of them, drafted the amendments proposed to the Committee for adoption. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the applicant had taken some comments, as they said, into account from their written opinion in the preparation of the proposals for amendments, so she presented the following comments, where there was no convergence of their views with the applicants, which was the case with respect to Articles 5, 6 and 8. The draft law was also addressed as an interested working body by the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions and human rights and equal opportunities and forwarded an opinion to the Committee. The Commission's opinion was presented by the President of the Commission, stressing that the Commission had adopted a decision assessing the solutions proposed in the law relating to the asylum procedure as appropriate and that the Commission supported them, but stressed that some unacceptable solutions had been highlighted in the debate by the High Commissioner's representatives. The discussion was followed by representatives of the High Commissionerate, the Legal Information Centre and the Peace Institute and raised some concerns about the individual provisions of the law and considered that the law introduces some unnecessary changes in respect of human rights and assesses the law in force so far as is good. The members and members of the Committee took different views in the debate, most of the members of the Committee expressed support for government proposals. In addition, they stressed that the proposed law is in line with European Union standards and thus introduces a European comparable asylum system. However, some other members of the Committee felt that the proposed law was following an important objective of effective asylum procedures, which were in the interest of both the State and asylum seekers, but in terms of the protection of individuals, it was necessary to strive to maintain the standards already in place. Thus, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SD Group to Article 1 and the amendments to Article 4 and some of its amendments and finally supported all the articles of the law together. I apologize for this time lapse and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In its consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Asylum Act, the Group of Social Democrats has endeavoured to demonstrate that the objectives that the applicant has stated to some extent are understandable that it is likely that it will implement them after the current hearing of the plenary session of the National Assembly, because it has a majority to do so, but it has a number of issues to raise the proposed amendments. And let me take my turn now. To ensure that the adoption of legislation is urgently needed in order to adopt a European legal order can be an incentive to make changes. However, Slovenia adopted the Asylum Act before the entry into the European Union and regulated the asylum procedure in accordance with the European legal order. The directives cited by the Ministry of the Interior as binding are directives that introduce minimum standards for the unification of asylum procedures, with particular reference being made to the fact that national legislation is not ordered to reduce the level of legal certainty of refugees and to adapt all asylum procedures to lower standards. The second objective or other purpose stated by the applicant is to make asylum procedures effective and shorten deadlines. We cannot oppose this objective in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, because we consider that the effectiveness and shortening of the deadlines for which such a procedure is now intended to run for a period of six months after being provided, and therefore for the Social Democrats' Group of Members it is also worth taking into account, both by the State and by asylum seekers. Of course, this raises the question, or the need, that efficiency is not at the expense of the fairness and correctness of the procedure. In this regard, in the Social Democrats Group, we believe that so far the procedures for the implementation of the asylum procedure are appropriate, at least with regard to Articles 5 and 6 in particular, which have also been most frequently addressed on the various working bodies by a number of concerns and comments from those who have also listened to the comments of NGOs, UNHCR, the Ombudsman and have not followed the conclusion that the abuse of the asylum process by adopting such solutions, which are not always in accordance with the protection of human rights. This is because the abuse of the asylum process, in our view, can also be prevented by the law currently in force, that only some procedures must be properly carried out and avoided, of course, what some consider to be an abuse of the asylum procedure so far. In Slovenia, however, the number of asylums allocated in the past year is extremely low [[26 Asylum allocations only]] , while those who have been excluded from the asylum procedure before are significantly more. If we follow these data, 33% are those who immediately deviate from the asylum requirement and those who have remained in the previous year, 80% of them have resigned after 7 days. We therefore believe that excessively great needs and improvements do not bring about this proposal, that there is still a lack of solutions in the whole range and that it is understandable from the point of view of State security protection that some powers are trying to regulate differently, but should not go to the expense of that group, which we refer to as a refugee. These are people seeking refuge in another country because they have been persecuted, either for religious, political, or other reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The legal regime of asylum ensures respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms in each country. This solidarity gesture of acceptance of refugees, victims of persecution and violence has been going on for centuries. Asylum is offered to refugees who have been persecuted in their home countries for reasons of race, religion, political belief, nationality or belonging to a special social group, and this protection has, last but not least, been granted to many Slovenians. The Republic of Slovenia has entered the universal right of asylum in Article 48 of the Constitution. The Constitution, together with the Geneva Convention and its Protocol, lays down the fundamental framework for regulating this issue. The protection of refugees is therefore the responsibility of the countries. With EU membership, each country assumes part of its responsibility for the transfer of humanitarian law and for as much consistent policy as possible towards asylum seekers. It is right for Member States to want to unify the area of illegal migration and asylum at European level and to ensure the necessary international protection for third-country persons while at the same time ensuring that migration flows are monitored. The proposed amendments to the Asylum Act transpose into our legal order a directive that follows the principles of uniformity of procedures and the principle of the necessary protection of refugees within the framework of international standards. At the same time, the novelty includes provisions for the prevention of abuse of asylum proceedings and the law of administrative case law, which emerged within five years of the implementation of the law on asylum. The practice of asylum procedures so far has shown that asylum seekers often make use of Slovenia only for the transition country to the West. Asylum seekers in Slovenia increased by 40% in the previous year. More than 80% of over 1,600 asylum seekers left their home last year than in 7 days. This data confirms that asylum status has been repeatedly abused and serves as an excuse for entry into our country, and the applicants do not actually seek and intend to seek refuge with us. According to the position of our Group of Members, this fact must be taken into account, especially after the adoption of the Dublin Directive, which provides that applicants can be returned to the country where they first applied for asylum. It is therefore right that efforts to resolve the process effectively and quickly with the novel under consideration are also provided with a legal basis. In the New Slovenia Group, we also consider the proposed article 6 of the novel, which is both spirit-wracking and exposed to UNHCR and NGOs, and by some opposition parties it was a threat to its constitutional judgment. This Article provides that a foreigner who has illegally entered or illegally resided in the Republic of Slovenia and intends to apply for asylum shall be dealt with in advance by the police and shall determine the circumstances concerning the acquisition of asylum. This article also explicitly states that the facts are identified by the police in cooperation with the authority in charge of the procedure. So, how's it gonna go with the new one? After the novel, a police officer will have a preliminary conversation with the applicant and find out if his allegations are credible. However, if there is any doubt, he will have to consult the Asylum Department in accordance with the law. It will therefore determine whether there are circumstances that indicate asylum, or whether there is a possible suspicion of abuse of asylum procedures and of causing a border offence. The role of the police in the asylum process cannot therefore be disputed, and according to the New Slovenia Group, the procedure by which the police will have to act is clearly defined. Offering accommodation, food supply, school supplies and free health care are rights belonging to asylum seekers. We can say that some rights could be wider, but there must be a limit and we must put it in place, and this is according to the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party at the appropriate level, so I will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-workers. The bill we are considering today introduces changes and additions to the asylum law, which means the transposition of European Union law into the Slovenian legal order, gives rise to the law and other practice developed in the area of asylum in the past two years of the implementation of the current law and, last but not least, the prevention of the abuse of asylum procedures. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support a government proposal that aligns the proposed law with the European Union's standards, as it introduces a European comparable asylum system. Some of the solutions proposed are even more favourable for applicants than in some countries, according to some colleagues and colleagues, with regard to legal protection in the most developed countries of the European Union. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we ask ourselves whether our country should be significantly more favourable and have faster, simpler and not know what asylum proceedings than in most European countries. We do not understand that our country should be a country where asylum seekers or asylum seekers could abuse this procedure. Some changes to the law are an important step in preventing the abuse of asylum procedures and the abuse of rights to work. The introduction of a single asylum system will undoubtedly contribute to faster and more efficient and rational implementation of asylum procedures. For protection reasons or reasons for preventing organised crime, the bill includes the police within the framework of the previous asylum procedure, which deals with a foreigner who enters or resides illegally in the country. The law also makes it clear that the police find the facts in cooperation with the authorities that are in charge of the asylum process itself. The law also stipulates that police treatment is not considered to be a decision on the asylum procedure, but merely to establish the identity of the applicants. As for the employment of asylum seekers, we agree in the Slovenian People's Party that the job of the applicant is only an exception, because the purpose of the asylum application is not employment, but international protection. Therefore, the possibility of employment of an asylum seeker should be limited only to extreme cases where the decision of the authority at first stage was not taken within a reasonable period, i.e. within one year and the reasons for the duration of the procedure are not on the applicants' side. We hope and expect that, with these amendments and legislative additions, we will not change in any way the procedures that are regulated in most European countries. We believe that Slovenia should not be the target country for asylum seekers, but that for those who are targeted for asylum, this should also be adequately regulated. We will therefore support the amendments to the Asylum Act in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Act introduces a single asylum system in the country and Europe, providing basic human rights for third-country nationals. However, it must also be said that it has major shortcomings, particularly when allowing the employment of asylum seekers after one year of stay. If I may, I'd like to touch on those official information we received through the government service. In 2005, 2,504 persons were reported, of which 830 left the premises before the application for asylum [[That's 33%.]] . In 2005, 1,674 asylum applications were accepted, 38.5% more than in 2004. However, 1,208 asylum applications were accepted. In the 7 days following the application for asylum, the asylum home voluntarily left as many as 1,394 applicants, which is 80% of all applicants. This information clearly tells us something, and perhaps I would like to say the following. Three days ago, we were basically confirmed in public that the 2006 work permits were confirmed at 17,300 working permits for third-world countries, which is 600 more than last year. I would like to point out that we have allowed ourselves to have a reserve for 1,000 jobs, but we do not have a list of deficit jobs. Taking into account the fact that, in essence, we can and must employ all citizens within the European Community, and we must take into account the free movement of labour, it is so incomprehensible that our amendment, which we have tabled on the labour force, has not been adopted. If I make it easy. In December 2005, there were 53.7% of the unemployed, 53.7% of the women, 25% of the first-time jobseekers, 24.6% of the unemployed under 26 years of age. However, we also have a risk group, over 40 years of age, which is represented in 32%. I could still mention how he is with the disabled and so on, who are unemployed, but this is a pointless and meaningless act, because this law may also be supported because it introduces some other, newer, wiser and even more welcome articles; in particular, that financial assistance is abolished and, in fact, the law of the police at the border, which identifies the status of asylum-seekers, and can effectively prevent the so-called smuggling of people into Slovenia. The current law also permits the right to work and at the same time gives asylum-seekers full protection within asylum in terms of justification to all parts, even simply justifying them in making their beds or in arranging rooms, which is not understandable. Perhaps we are the only parliamentary group that has seen this asylum home, and we can say that there are very good conditions within this asylum home, and it is all the more incomprehensible that protest letters are addressed to the Interior Minister by asylum seekers who speak of so-called absurd conditions and do not know what else. In short, there's no way to say that. In all of these statements, cited by the new law, we see positive sides, while at the same time assessing the fact that it is essentially unacceptable that after one year of asylum we will have the right to work, because we can soon have here, as the power to see in Trieste, the Chinatown in Ljubljana and our people will not have the constitutional right to work as enshrined in the constitution, there will be more unemployed. In this segment, marriage is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. As an introduction, I also took this route with me to show how we treat our tongue in a reckless manner. This is not the fault of the Minister, but I am saying this in order to possibly warn my job that they should be more careful at some point. For example, we have a paragraph written down that has only three sentences, but it lacks eight or nine commas, and one is too much, and then I fix this page with a red pen and it looks like the rapporteur got sick as if he got redskins, so it looks. We recommend proper conduct in our language to this ministry, and we are already one of the other ones, and it will not hurt either. As far as the asylum law is concerned, the following is concerned. A lot of troublesome, even professional, cities, and in part more or less political debates, were to be seen, and we tried to actively engage in this, namely, in the DeSUS Group of Members, to oppose some of the provisions that we consider to be bad, and some of the others we also wanted to support. In doing so, we relied on what we were able to understand from the opinion of the legislative and legal service, UNHCR and some NGOs, and, of course, we were also familiar with the views of experts. We got the impression that we were doing the right thing. However, our amendments, the gold in Articles 5 and 6, we have amended the content, have been rejected. It seems to us that this is actually a problem of the starting point: whether we defend or want to defend the country against refugees, against asylum seekers, this is one of the possible understandings, and the other is possible, whether we are more concerned with securing that we will provide protection to those who are in difficulties fleeing violence from persecution who are experiencing a personal life accident. Some of us are disturbed by the fact that it is not possible to avoid the impression that this law also follows the laws already adopted in this national assembly, namely the law on temporary displaced persons, and the law on foreigners, where it is always a kind of restrictive relationship. While we would be happy to support a single process that rationalises the matter, coordination with the acquis of the European Union, so with harmonisation, we would support the announced greater efficiency, even though we could now be more effective. However, we cannot support certain provisions which, according to our poor and discriminatory nature, or at least constitute a reduction of the standard. We cannot support rationalisation, which is talking about reducing monetary and monetary aid, nor can we support the abolition of legal aid at the first stage in any way. That is where it is most necessary, more than later, when everything is already delayed; we cannot agree that we are excessively restricting the right to work; we cannot agree that the compensation for legal aid should be offered by NGOs that can run for the funds of the so-called refugee fund, without knowing whether they will be successful or not or whether they already know that they cannot be successful because they have established calls such that they cannot run for such programmes. We are also disturbed by the insubsistence and inability to complain about some, you say that there is no decision, and we consider that there are decisions that cannot be complained of because there is no decision. Indeed, the decision is not "de facto", but it is real. That's why some people can't go to an asylum, but they're going to a refugee home because that decision fell without being told. So, because of these and some of the other weaknesses that have been mentioned in the work of the parental committee, and we now cite them, we unfortunately cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Rudi Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I brought the rapporteur myself, but I'm the only one with a different content. I think it's okay and all the bolts are in place, and later on. By entering the European Union, Slovenia wishes to align itself with the legal order of the community in all areas. All Member States wish to simplify themselves in the area of illegal migration and asylum and to ensure the necessary international protection for third-country persons, while at the same time taking care of the control and control of migration flows. Control and control of these flows is particularly important for the border states of the Community. To this end, conclusions from Tampere were presented and the foundations of a single asylum system were also given. As one of the more important decisions, a five-year deadline is set for the adoption of an appropriate legal framework at the European level for the harmonisation of asylum legislation in the Member States of the Community. Finally, the establishment of a common, unified asylum system, also defined by the Constitution for Europe. The legislative amendment under consideration implements the Hague programme, which is the Tampere upgrade. The main purpose of this programme is to ensure fundamental human rights for third-country nationals, to ensure minimum procedural guarantees while at the same time establishing external border controls of the European Union, in particular in order to combat human trafficking, organised crime and terrorism. However, prevention is particularly important in these events. It should be stressed, however, that it is a matter of unifying or forming a single European asylum system. Terrorism or the fight against terrorism became particularly active after 11 September 2001 and attacks on Madrid or Madrid in early 2004 and several terrorist attacks in London last year. Slovenia is a border country of the community and is therefore particularly exposed and the first to encounter migration processes and thus with consequences. That is also why our country is obliged to adopt the European Directives with consistent implementation, especially because they follow the objective, I will once again say, to establish a single asylum system of the European Community. It should be stressed that changes are moving towards faster procedures, which means raising the standard for applicants and their greater protection. The worst solution is failure to resolve within a reasonable time, even when it comes to asylum seekers. We would like to highlight such a critical solution with regard to the role of the police to determine the reality of asylum and the way that they already have such solutions in Finland, France, Denmark, Germany, Norway, the Czech Republic and gradually introduce such solutions to other countries. Given that Slovenia accepts European Union standards, where Member States with more than 2 times the national income per capita than Slovenia, it means that our country gives twice as much for this area as those countries. Here I am referring to the countries of Benelux, Scandinavian countries, Austria, Germany, England, which are significantly richer, but we are giving as much as they are. That is why everyone is obvious that we are lowering standards, completely out of proportion and even incorrect. As long as we adopt the standards of the richest Member States in asylum legislation, such opinions or accusations from vines are twisted and incorrect, even though they are expressed in the national assembly at the working bodies meeting also by representatives coming from abroad. In the SDS, we will support the marriage proposal, because we are confident and now I will take the Rapporteur, because we believe that the content given in the explanation is very correct, and I quote: 'A foreigner who enters illegally or stays illegally for reasons of security is previously being considered by the police. Preventive police treatment is needed primarily for security reasons, reasons for preventing organised crime and terrorism. The examination of the alien shall include in particular the identification of the route by which it came, if it enters illegally, and the assessment of the conformity of the declaration of intent to lodge an application for asylum under the conditions for obtaining protection under this Act. Those facts shall be identified by the police in cooperation with the authority responsible for conducting the asylum procedure. It should be stressed that this is not a decision on the asylum procedure. It is the duty of a foreigner to respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and to cooperate with the competent authority." In the SDS, we support such an approach and therefore support the law which allows for the introduction of a common asylum procedure in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Dr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues and co-workers! Allow me first, however, to protest against the way in which the meeting is conducted, Mr President, when you have not allowed the words to Milan Cvikl and have interpreted the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly by your own free will and have prevented the fundamental right that we also have to get a word in accordance with this Rules of Procedure whenever we want it. Otherwise, if we are talking about this law, we can say in particular that in the LDS Club, we will decide on the support of the law on the basis of the consideration of the amendments submitted for the second reading. If at least the key amendments are adopted, we will be able to support the law, but we are not optimistic about the fate of the amendments. The LDS Parliamentary Amendments Government and the Social Democrats Group do not support and we have no reason to believe that the ruling coalition in Parliament will behave differently. In the LDS, we see changes and additions to this law in the broader context of progressive and increasingly visible changes in the state regime in Slovenia, which strengthen the role, powers, power of the country's repressive authorities, protect the right to information about public affairs, strengthen the relationship with foreigners of all kinds, first of all those with foreign passports, if they have them, and then also with foreigners in the notes, the ownership of citizens and citizens, i.e. all those who are different do not want to and know or cannot bind the image of an average, working and God-fearing citizen who implicitly trusts in the authority. As we note that changes and additions to the asylum law reduce the level of rights for potential asylum seekers, we have in mind not only their rights but also ours. The view that our country, especially the police, will develop in the presence of foreigners, will soon be passed on to ourselves. Look at the law on public order and peace that we will talk about. The changes are justified by the Government's adaptation to the rule of law. A convenient and simple technical excuse to reduce the scope and possibilities of the rights and arrangements given by our country, as in the case of access to information of a public nature. I will not talk about the EU setting minimum standards under which no one who wants to be a democratic country can fall, but anyone can do more and better if this is in accordance with his or her situation. Once again, what bothers us most about this marriage. The subsidiary form of protection is not processed. Of course, we are most disturbed by the previous police procedure. This, in our view, is the most controversial solution in this law. This article allows the police, on first contact with a potential asylum seeker, to assess the conditions, circumstances and decide whether to proceed under an asylum law or to be treated under a foreign law. The industrious senior police officers and the minister himself say to us in public that we must read another paragraph of this article, in which the police note this in cooperation with the body in charge of the procedure, which is not considered to be the decision-making of the police in the asylum process. So it's a significant case of cynicism in a bureaucratic and closed state. That's the hook 22, the catch 22, the one who doesn't know. A certain right is granted to you, but you can only get it through the process by escaping that right. How can the police find out the fact in paragraphs 1 and 2 if they declare him a common illegal offender and send him back across the border? The authorities in charge of the procedure shall not be activated at all but, at the same time, there is no possibility of a complaint against the police, as this is not considered to be a decision in the procedure. If this article is adopted as it is, we predict the possibility of a constitutional judgment. In particular, in terms of costs and freedoms, there is a questionable arrangement allowing asylum seekers to work for a certain period of only one year. So far, there has been no restriction. And there was no employment, if I recall. This is an economic and irrational decision why applicants should live on the cost of the country if they can and want to work on their own. At the current unemployment rate, Slovenian entrepreneurs are looking for a white-day light for jobs that are not particularly attractive. You and other reasons that guide us that we will not be able to support the law and we will vote against it, unless there is a miracle, but as we know, Mondays are not made for miracles, but they are for violating the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Nice greetings from my side, thank you also to the President for his leadership so far. We have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 3 February 2006. You had to get this document on your desk. We are just beginning with Article 2 – Article 2 of this amendment from the Social Democrats Group. Who wants a word? Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In addition to this amendment, let me say how we have dealt with this law in the Socialist Group of Members so far. Non-governmental organisations, UNHCR, Ombudsman, the legal and legislative service had a number of comments on the bill. On the basis of what has been offered by NGOs and UNHCR to law-makers to improve and eliminate those most problematic points in the novel, we have tried to improve the text with amendments, unfortunately we have failed to do so on the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, but now we have submitted to those articles which are open to some amendments which we consider necessary to adopt if we want to speak about this law as a law that does not reduce the level of legal security of asylum seekers. In particular, it would be good to say that we are not living in an ideal world where migration flows could also be affected by illegal applicants and that the asylum institution is reserved for all those who for any reason are in a life-threatening situation and are expected to be protected by that country when entering a country. Be it because they are persecuted in their country, because of their ethnicity, religious beliefs, political views, or any other personal circumstances. It therefore seems very important to us that, in the circumstances of the applicant, it is precisely what those measures show internal security and our amendment, which of course the Government does not support, that goes in the direction of supplementing the text, because we want to say that at times, for an individual, a third country that is supposed to be a safe country is still at work for that individual where he should return, or that he is dangerous for a member of that group that the asylum seeker belongs to. We believe, therefore, that the text is as complementary as we propose in the amendment, that the proposed article is improved and that we ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Just a few thoughts in support of this amendment and in calling on coalition colleagues and colleagues to support our solution. See, when we devote ourselves to human rights and I hear the revolution of civil-social movements to the solutions offered by power, as a leftist, I know that the solution offered is bad. When I hear further that such solutions are praised by nationalists, I think that intervention is already an intervention not only in certain rights of certain people, but also in the level of civil growth achieved. And the distinction between the left and the right, between selfishness and humanity, between openness and constipation, between you and us and others, is clear here. I have not heard anything and have not been persuaded by the applicant's introductory explanations, no one is forcing us to do so, including an increased rate, an alleged increased level of threat to terrorism, not if the state, the government that is also offering this law, is moving into this phenomenon with the announced directions to Iraq. It is just a mirror, a mirror of the politics of this power, which is impatient with foreigners, especially those who aim only for naked survival, which is inhumane, which is insolvent. If I am mistaken, colleagues, colleagues from coalition groups, you will prove that you will support the proposed solutions by our Group of Members and other colleagues. As colleague Majda said, it is a solution that is also designed by interested civil society and that strives not to take any shameful steps back, since Slovenia has always been a model host, always well protected its borders and also treated the affected people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment. Look, it's simply that we need to be sure that this safe internal protection, that it's really safe and that it's a safe part. What's this all about? Here we have heard colleagues speaking in connection with political asylum on terrorism and the issues they face in Western Europe, America and elsewhere in the global world. The problem is that these are arguments that are simply not valid. That's the point: who are those potential asylum-seekers who are fleeing? Surely these are the most often asylum-seekers fleeing their country because there is a danger because they are fighting for democracy, for human freedoms and so on, and in fact they are the ones who are most often fleeing and who are supposed to be offering assistance and asylum. They usually flee countries that are much more repressive, much less tolerant and have other cultures and civilisation standards that I would not talk about today. By providing these points with what is actually considered, what are these elements of a safe area in the work of the country of origin and internal protection, this would strengthen the security element of these people. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Today, and not only today, even in the current treatment, it has been repeatedly felt a skepticism and reservations to asylum-seekers in general, in the sense that they abuse the rules of the game, and if they come from the source of abuse, then it is not far from solutions that give rise to restrictions on the treatment of asylum-seekers. Not only do they abuse and therefore need to be careful and consider them more restrictively, but we have also heard today that they can devour the Slovenians and Slovenes with a certain space under the sun, not to say they are endangering the jobs of the Slovenes and Slovenes. Therefore, in this context of thinking, which probably does not apply and is not only owning some options in Slovenia, but also outside, would recommend that, as in neighbouring Italy, some reflection be developed where parliamentarians and parliamentarians engage in theatre performances and play asylums and revive their traumas and problems they face when they face a closed space in which they enter and where they are told to devour other spaces under the sun and also in some way abuse their rules of play. This amendment, which we are facing, better defines the circumstances of the applicant and more clearly expresses certain rules, which others have also pointed out, not only the competent authorities of the government or those on the committees we have met with these solutions. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has brought 15 pages of comments. With all possible diplomacy and recognition of our solutions, however, he warned of the unacceptableness of such solutions as government law brings. The government law, if I refer to the statement made at the press conference presented by the minister responsible for this issue, has only one intention - to correct the excessively liberal law we now had in Slovenia. This is the worst possible conviction to reduce, narrow down rights that have been too liberal and turn them into substantially more restrictive, giving even the police too much competence. In short, I will support this amendment, not support the possibilities that narrow down the standards that we have achieved in Slovenia and that treat asylum seekers as people who have not come to another country to abuse space, but have found themselves and left their country because of the impossible situations they are in.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Respected and respected! Dear President! I think that this amendment needs to be supported, however, because it does take a little bit of the edge of a different bill. Of course, marriage is bad. I'll tell you why. In particular, because it restricts freedom to those who are in need, who seek refuge and, of course, the reasons why this right is limited in some way, this human right is unconvincing, as far as I am concerned. The reference to terrorist involvement, of course, is complete nonsense. They're probably not among the asylum-seekers. But you can, of course, tell them how many of the 1,674 applications were made last year were rejected because, say, they were potential terrorists or you even proved it to them, whether you just saw it in their eyes. I highly doubt this insight of Slovenian police officers, to see at first sight who a potential terrorist might or may not be, who is entitled to asylum and who is not. Perhaps none of you have ever acted in such a way as to be marginal, to be different, and to ask for such a thing. That's why you don't have your own experience. And I'll tell you that, in practice, then in the field, things like this happen. After the prescribed samples, according to the prescribed assumptions, according to the prescribed, of course, own aversions. This law is, of course, directed against freedom, against liberality, against what Slovenia has known to boast on a global scale, against its propensity for marginals, towards those who are persecuted. And you know they're only being persecuted because they want freedom because they don't want to live in totalitarianism, so they're running away from their homes. That's why they take their families with them, and no one comes for the worse, no one wants to go for the worse. If we limit it to others, we will limit ourselves. On the other hand, this case is also more liberal, more liberal with the police, and as we heard this morning, even for prosecutors. There is also an internal freedom that does not concern citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let's go to Article 2. As I said, for force it restricts sharpness and is therefore worth supporting. It is also appropriate to support all those who nevertheless allow some standard. This time again, Slovenia, with the excuse of Europeanism, agrees with the worst solutions, to minimize, but this can be done. In fact, we can always find a country in Europe that has even worse things to deal with than we do and is still Europeanly comparable. That's not what Slovenia is up to. At least so far we have always said that we want to be better, the best, and I am also a judge of respect for human rights, and in some ways also humanism, which we would like to demonstrate by doing so. But with what's right here on the table, we're mostly pointing to our misontropics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed amendment is unnecessary, since Article 2 already takes account of the content or addition proposed by this amendment. In view of these circumstances, which are exemplarly listed here, they are already taken into account and identified in the procedure. Therefore, from this point of view, this amendment is unnecessary. However, since the debate also referred to some other aspects, allow me to say something about it myself. The fact is that Slovenia has high protection of the rights of asylum seekers in its asylum legislation. In a comparative sense, I would even say that our legislation in this area is one of those countries, which, more than most other European countries, provides asylum seekers with an average standard. Most other European countries, which also have a significantly higher standard of living, do not allow such a level of protection for asylum seekers. It is not held that the amendment of the Asylum Act violates the rights already acquired from the current law, as some opposition Members have said in today's debate. Noting the critics of the amendment, and at the same time proposing the amendments under consideration, of course, they are representatives of part of the opposition, that it is an infringement of the rights already acquired, which is not allowed to be reduced and denied, so they do not, in my opinion, hold this statement in any way. In no way does justice diminish as it tries to manifest itself. The rights are being maintained. It is true, however, that the procedures in which the State authorities decide on the role of applicants are being followed and these procedures are actually being accelerated. Procedures will be shorter under the new regime, which is exactly the opposite of the claim on the reduction of rights. Why should justice be reduced if the process is faster and shorter. This is as if we claimed that the fight to reduce judicial backlogs in Slovenia means, on the other hand, the reduction of the rights of the parties to the proceedings. The truth is the opposite in this case. The general legal principle, which means the provision of human rights, is a reasonable time for trial and, of course, also applies to the administrative procedure under the provisions of the Asylum Act. If the procedure is not fast, human rights are violated because the procedure is not completed within a reasonable time. So far, there have been considerable abuses and speculations in these procedures, which have given some of the interest that the proceedings have lasted as long as possible. And, of course, it is likely that the legislation that made all this possible has been in line with them so far. This, of course, is not good, and it is therefore right that this amendment, as well as some others, retain more or less the current misadventures from experience, allowing the abuse to date and the longevity of the proceedings not to be supported. However, we support the proposed law as a whole, which continues to maintain a high and even higher average level of ensuring the rights of all participants in the asylum process. However, as the procedures will be faster and abuse will be as limited as possible, the adoption of the proposed law for the country will at the same time constitute a significant budgetary deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I am prepared to support this law, provided that something changes, that the amendments that have been proposed, at least some, will be adopted. While I also support this first amendment, which we are now talking about, and especially because it is perhaps even a better amendment, one of them has already been rejected by Articles 5 and 6. I intend to support, but not just me, my Group of Members, now the proposed amendments to Articles 5 and 6. Whether the level of rights is falling or not, this should not be a question at all today. That's what the government admitted a long time ago. It has written explicitly that these levels are falling and it is not possible to say that the abolition of money aid, the abolition of pocket money, the abolition of legal certainty, an agent at the first stage, that this is an increase in legal certainty and standard, but that is simply not the case. It's not about defending the rights of those who abuse when we defend the amendments. It is our concern to defend the rights of those who are truly beaten, persecuted, who are subjected to certain torture. We believe that it is worth representing the rights of these, even if I do not know for any reason to state authorities in the meantime, that some may also use abuse to prevent such abuses from being committed by the public authorities, but not in a way that those who do not abuse them will be rightfully so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	When I hear from the advocates of this law that the law serves to accelerate procedures, I can give them the right. However, when they add that the level achieved at the level of human rights does not reduce the visa of all warnings from, last but not least, the High Commissioner. I mean, colleague Kovachič, there's something we need to put on this organ. It is an important body that knows better than all of us the situation of these people. To speak with so many warnings that rights do not diminish to asylum seekers, but it is misleading. I wouldn't dare say that. I don't have much more knowledge than the High Commissioner has, but let us now leave civil society movements that can have some of their partial interests, but the Commissioner warns us that we are taking a big step back from the achieved level of rights for asylum seekers. Of course we have to believe them. But if that doesn't suit us, it's another question. But to say it's not like that, it's a little funny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. In assessing the content of this law, it is not only blindly to refer to certain warnings that are coming, but above all to examine what the actual rules in this area are laying down and how these rules have been implemented in practice. And in this case, given the amendment of the law, I can see that the standard of rights guaranteed by the present law will not be reduced. However, since I said one lapsus lingue in the previous debate, I would also like to correct it in this place. In fact, when I said that procedures under the amendment would be faster and abuse would be disabled as much as possible, I mistakenly said that the adoption of the proposed law would also constitute a significant budgetary deficit. It will not be a deficit, but a substantial budget savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Institute of Asylum is certainly one of the fundamental human rights and, of course, I cannot even think of agreeing to reduce this institution under internationally recognised borders. As a result, I am surprised by this overwhelming lack of confidence in our country, the authorities of our country, who have submitted a law in some way with comparative regulation. And because I also see here, with regard to the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, that they have also written down a dictatorship that says that it is directly contrary to Article 7 of the European Council Directive, I fear that most of these proposed amendments are indeed to a large extent in the function of creating some hallo effect, panic, intimidation as democratic standards diminish in this country. I don't know what this lack of confidence in the authorities of the country is. Was it previously a law that we find very broad, liberal and I don't know what, but whether you had it as fictional in mind at the time, whose provisions would not be implemented. Were there any directives that would not be implemented so that substantially lower standards might be implemented? I don't know. Your debate in this direction sounds to me as if you systematically doubt the readiness of the Slovenian state to comply with these democratic standards, such as those of the United Nations, the European Council, etc., are prescribed. It is directly stated that what is contrary, which is in direct contradiction and even in this amendment, doubts that international organisations that can control a country or an essential part of the territory may be a protection entity. I don't know, what I know is, like, some deviations or abuse. I don't know if there's any security forces here in Bosnia, and we can imagine Srebrenica when it came what the Dutch army had done. But I systematically think it's going to happen everywhere and it's going to happen everywhere. This seems unacceptable to me and that the hostage of this country cannot be. In this amendment and some others, you actually want to make the Slovenian country a hostage of something that is not in accordance with these directives of the European Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss Article 2? Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	Some serious accusations could be heard. But it's hard to convince anyone that something is gray if he sees black. I find it difficult to prove to anyone that this is the level of lowering the standards that we have in asylum procedures, if someone is sure that the government has done everything, if sometimes with those explanations that we get on the labour market, is the problem that they are not sufficiently precise. It is true, however, that the Council of Europe, the High Commissioner for Refugees, has commented on the level of reduction and that further on the individual amendments it will be possible to talk about this and to demonstrate where such a reduction of standards is actually taking place. Now, is there any built-in doubt that has been discussed before or not - there are things that need to be clarified in detail. Experiences in this world, which are not particularly harmonious, especially in recent times, show that abuse is possible, so it is good to write some safeguards in the law. It is probably not only Srebrenica, but Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is probably another one; recently, when I visited Georgia, I also heard comments from the Georgian authorities on certain procedures. So it is not possible to say that everything is so beautifully arranged and that everything that the government brings does not need to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	Mr. Petan, then Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. If this is really about lowering the standards that this is so critical, it is unlikely that no one will be able to claim here that this is not harmonisation with the European legal order; this is probably not the case, we are probably united here. However, if there is such a severe decline in standards, we can ask ourselves what level the European Union standards are. Are the Member States of the European Union that are committed to unity - and this is supposed to be a single methodology - in the asylum area, in stone age? People of God! I just can't imagine what a scream and a scream. I am also inviting some representatives from I do not know what humanitarian organizations are sending us here in the National Assembly to explain how we are lowering our standards, but a person is from a country that is significantly more developed and has the same standard as us. So we give twice what they give. Let them give as much as we give, and let them give twice, and set higher standards! And we will also accept their standard. Until then, we don't have to pee! And you say, harmonisation with the European legal order is a stone age for us. Please, let's be realistic! We are harmonising with a European legal order that is supposed to be even uniform, not only to have the same, but to be even uniform, that is to say, for the whole of the European Union. This is something fundamentally different, and it's all wrong now. And if our government, let's say, because it doesn't matter if it were the previous government, it would be the same if now this government harmonises it with the European order, but now everything is wrong, not all our government needs to believe - yes, because it doesn't have to! We can trust those governments that have somehow agreed to create a uniform standard in Europe. And that's what it is, and our government has been after that takeover. In doing so, it is a primary sin for all other European governments that have accepted this and have adopted a standard that should also become a general standard. I don't see why there are so many problems in terms of harmonising with the legal order right now. The legal order to harmonise means that we are going up, but even if you want to, I can not say it, but I can also say it down. If this is what we are talking about and working on creating a unified asylum system in Europe, then everyone must be united, all on the same page. That's right. On the other hand, I'm sure what we're about to accept won't be so bad. If our public relations are, as well as foreign, what they represent to us, what problems they have in some other countries that are more developed than we are, what situation these applicants are in. I don't think it's gonna be that bad with us. And I am not saying that this is wrong, that we should imitate those who have worse than us, even if they are members of the European Union. I think that's the right thing to do. That this is the right thing to do, and that is how much Slovenia can afford. We also need to see how much Slovenia can afford. I'm not going to tell you now, I don't know, forgive the expression, so I'm going to be more graphic, I'm going to say, I'm going to be thinking, we're going to have a lot of other problems, let's just put this aside, we've already solved this on the board. Today, I would not discuss this, but I think that Slovenia is now adopting such standards as it is able to keep, not only do we have on paper, that we will give them these rights, what conditions they will have, and then what will be, will be "war". I think that Slovenia is also careful here that it can maintain these standards. That seems important to me, too. And I think that right now is what Slovenia can afford. I just don't see the problem as it appears to be all black, because now this government is doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	It is more than obvious that not all of us understand certain concepts equally. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the single process that is being discussed in the novel does not, of course, mean that we have the same situation throughout Europe. This is something completely different. And since my colleague probably won't believe me, I'd ask the government representatives to explain it, maybe he'll believe them. Secondly, as regards the Directives. The Directives refer to the minimum limits, the lower threshold. The Directive does not prohibit anyone having better manners than what is at least possible to regulate. And that's what this is all about. It is our business not to stay at the bottom of the threshold, because we have already had some things a little better arranged and our country can do it. Under this threshold laid down by the Directive, it is not possible to do so. Now there's something about the other arrangements. There's a whole series of definitions that I'm happy to support. I have already said in the introduction, even this single procedure, which does not mean, I would say, unification across the European Union, as far as standards are concerned. However, I would now now suggest once again that the government, the proposer, should come forward and say that because I see that we understand very differently what lowering the standard is and what is not lowering the standard. It is clear, at least for some, it is clear that so far it has been possible to understand, if we had a pocketbook so far, but now we do not have one, it is less than more. If we have had some other assistance so far, and we will no longer have it, it is less than more. And that's lowering the standard. The fact that we don't have legal aid in the first degree is something that is not standard at all. That shouldn't even be standard. There should be assistance provided at the first step, where the applicant is the most justified and most in need of such assistance. However, the easier access to asylum proceedings, according to my judgment, is now being prevented. There may have been a lot of abuse before, but access to asylum is now difficult. The asylum procedure has one purpose. See if anyone is entitled to the status or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	I am obliged to warn you that we are, however, discussing Article 2 and the amendment of the Social Democrats. It's Mrs. Pecan's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will probably also say a word or a sentence to the mine of this amendment, because I would nevertheless like to clarify my personal position on the concept of the so-called preservation, reduction or harmonisation of standards for the establishment and implementation of asylum, when we are talking about the minimum standards set by EU legislation. I would like to point out that, before the European Parliament has rejected the directive on the organisation of working time proposed by the EU Commission, and which is essential in relation to our organisation of working time, it has reduced the standard, or I will say, significantly reduced the rights of employees in the organisation of working hours, especially for on-calls in the services, including the police at the end of the places where on-calls are needed. However, our government has attached these minimum standards with the aim of lowering them in practice in Slovenia. What do I mean by that? When we talk about the minimum standards set by EU members, even in agreement, in any area, this is the area of asylum, which means that this is the standard that must be achieved by those countries that have not yet achieved it. We have standards. If the EU remembers and says that the common standard is three months of maternity leave, would that mean that we will now change the law so that the maternity will only be for three months, in order to adapt to EU minimum standards. No, the other way around. Where they only have a month's maternity leave, they have to pick it up on three. Where the standard is that the monthly allowance is 5,000 tolars, we will not go down the allowance, but where it is not, but if the standard is that there must be some allowance given to asylum seekers, then this standard must be met. For this reason, I must say that I am also talking about asylum seekers, i.e. those who have received recognized asylum, not those who come, but also those who are already here and who are asylum-seekers. I have to say, I would like you to think at some point about what would happen if you came to me in a situation where you had to apply for asylum in a foreign country. And if in the National Assembly, in this country's Parliament, we talk about how to lower standards in order to save, think, 1,700 tolars per person per month of allowance. If this is what this country can do, and if this is what will cause the state budget to fail, then please let us make some substantial reform already, so that we can realize human rights by setting a pattern for others, not by putting our eyes up in shame when we talk to these so highly developed countries that they have lower standards than we have. I know the situation in Germany, for example, as to how asylum seekers live, and not to tell me that this very rich country to asylum seekers is as cruel as the proposal of this law. That's not true, because I know it's not true. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, then Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you. Indeed, many things have been mixed up in this debate, usually in Article 1 or 1st Amendment. I would say, above all, that when we are talking about harmonisation with the European Union, it is really necessary to know that the European Union is pursuing a greater or less successful objective of trying to define as a European standard as a binding regulation only the least that people can agree on or that countries can agree on and no longer prescribe, if only they can. This is also a good principle for us to prescribe only what is absolutely necessary, but not all possible things. And never, a typical example is a directive regulating the re-use of information of a public nature, even requiring that this information of a public nature be put into use again, but says that where it is put into reuse, it should not be charged too much and so on. It's in a similar way here. What is expected of a democratic country is the minimum standards and procedures to which these potential asylum seekers are entitled. Not anymore. He doesn't want to tell us anymore; he leaves everything else to his national legislation. And that's right. The European Union is not yet a federation, nor is it far from being a unitary state. Let me get this straight. What are we talking about, colleagues? We're talking, we're all saying together, about a liberal law that's changing now, it's partly true, but it's not. If I recall 2700, 3000 approximately, order of magnitude, between 2000 and 3000 requests, 29 were granted. It is said that our liberal law is not so liberal, which in its own right, only those who are truly justified by the reason of asylum have come to asylum. Of course, we all know that many economic or other refugees or immigrants want their asylum status. And, of course, it is right that procedures allow for a serious assessment or justification or not justify this status. But of course it is right to make this judgment in a way that prevents unilateral, arbitrary and purely arbitrary conduct and conduct. That's what we're talking about, and today we've mixed everything up. We've confused asylum seekers, we've confused economic immigrants, we've mixed up the fight against terrorism. And once again, the people we're talking about are running from terrorism, usually, in calls, even their own "terrorist" regimes, if I may use this term, which I don't like very much. These are the ones they're talking about. One more time. What do we propose in LDS? We've been demanding nothing for a long time? We propose that these potential applicants be treated better than the Slovenians, as our colleagues say, I do not propose that they be treated equally, because they cannot be treated, we propose only that during this transitional period, when they request, if they can even apply for asylum and until they are granted asylum, decent, minimum human conditions allowing them to survive and not lose their own dignity. We propose this because, as Ambassador Pecanov said, we imagine that we could ever, I don't think, but we could ever be in their situation. So, of course, we go to this old, I would say, Kant's and Jewish Christian slogan: what we don't want to do to others, we don't want to do to ourselves and vice versa. What we expect others to do for us is that we are willing to do for others. I'm warning you again. Even after the war of 1945, many had to flee the country in one way or another, for such or other reasons becoming refugees. If the countries that adopted them had such asylum laws where they would be today. I'm not sure we'd be on anything better or worse than they are. That's why I think you should be aware that when we talk about asylum seekers, we're not talking about strange foreigners, we're talking about ourselves. We talk about what we are willing to do for others and what we expect of others. We're talking about elementary elements as dignity, but not, I don't know, what kind of income or anything else is supposed to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. And Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. So I mean what the honourable Member said before. I think that's almost the point of the problem, and here I give it right, just looking at us will be different. I think the comparison she gave is very good, and it illustrates the essence of the matter. It's every matter of interest. We need to understand that. The interests of citizens, the interests of the state, the interests of the government or of us who are in Parliament, which is supposed to represent the interests of the state, the interests of the forest, not of the individual tree. If it is the European Union, I will use this brief expression that I will not always have to speak to the European Union countries, and I do not know what it is if the European Union has somehow decided to do so, then it has followed interest. The interest of the European Union is certainly not that it will become, I don't know, an area of interest where they will come from all parts of the world and will go beyond what this European Union can absorb, I am talking about over what it can absorb. Of course, these currents will always be and there is some critical mass when things can be regulated. If it goes beyond all reasonable limits, it's hard. I will give an example only to Slovenia at the time of this sea in the Balkans, when we had over 20,000 different foreigners. I'm not going to put them in the category. That was way beyond acceptable. I think that at that time we were in Slovenia a country that has the most foreigners, refugees or whatever we call them. It's not our interest to make things grow beyond all possible limits. The European Union has just set this standard. This is the interest he pursues. We'll probably have to get along here. And the comparison that had been made earlier, if the European Union had accepted, I don't know, a lower standard for maternity, then they would have reduced it for me. I do not think that the European Union has done so because it follows a different standard, because in this area the interest of the European Union is significantly different. But he's like this in this asylum, and he's not different. And the result of this interest is such a proposal of some level, some standard in this area. That's the way it is. And here too we must pursue our national interest. And our national interest is probably not to have as many of these people as we had in 1994, 1995; it was really critical at the time. In addition, I do not think that it is our interest to have the situation at our borders, as it was in 2000, when about 100 people crossed our border every day. I will not now think about that black scenario, why it seemed that when the camera went to the border at night, they immediately caught a large group of refugees; by chance, it was the Bayuk government, by chance it was then. So I'm not going to discuss this, but we don't want to have this situation. Surely we do not want it because we want it arranged. Moreover, if our country pursues such an interest as is stated here that it is the duty of a foreigner to respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and to cooperate with the competent authority, this can be nothing wrong. This can be nothing wrong, it can be, in fact, a commendable property pursued by the State. Now I'm going to say something really ugly, well, just in the home -- but I think I've said this once before: if in those countries where these people come from, we also have such an interest in the government that it's the duty of a foreigner to respect order, that means that domestics have to respect order, then it wouldn't be necessary for these people to run, because it would be very different there. I'm sorry. And that must be, I don't know, a guide. And all I can do is say hello. That's what I'd say if some other government wrote it down. I have already given the government the right and the right to confirm a lot of things in the previous term, and I have made it clear. It is the duty of a foreigner to respect the rule of law and to cooperate with the competent authority. It's nothing bad, it's nothing wrong, it's good enough and it allows the country to function normally and that we can also accept people from those countries where it's not written as it is written here, but have different rules, substantially different. It's just the opposite of who can play law and order. We've taken on a lot of things, too, but that's not essential right now. However, the point is that foreigners must cooperate, just as we must. We must respect our legal order and cooperate with the competent authorities, because if not, we are being punished. Let it be for everyone. If any of these people who come here will remain here, no harm, just get used to the fact that we have to cooperate with the competent authority, everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Since we have seven more articles and several amendments, I suppose because there are no deadlines raised so that we can continue the debate. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the Social Democrats. And I'm moving on to Article 5. We have two amendments, an amendment from the SD Group and an amendment from the LDS Group. Mag. Tremendous, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you. Our amendment proposes deleting Article 5. We feel that, as regulated by the current law on asylum, it is well arranged and we do not see the need for change. We therefore propose deleting this Article. Where does the reason for such a proposal go? Providing free legal aid at all stages of the procedure is essential for those in such difficult circumstances to apply for asylum. And it is absolutely necessary when it first comes in contact with someone who, after a new decision, decides whether or not to proceed further. Asylum seekers aren't usually real people. As a rule, they do not have a lot of resources available to provide legal aid on their own, so providing free legal aid at the moment is the most important. This was therefore the purpose of this article. However, the harmful consequences of the proposed solution, which the government has now adopted and the coalition has attached to it, have been pointed out by non-governmental organisations and also by the legal and legislative service. And I would ask that, however, those who remind us of respect for the signed international conventions look a little more respectful than could be observed in previous discussions. As for the asylum home, let me just remind those who may have forgotten that we have built it with funds from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	I didn't mean to come to the point of the Asylum Act, but because I listened to my respected colleague Petan explaining what someone was supposed to do in respect of the legal order in Slovenia, and how right it was for everyone to respect the legal order of Slovenia, but I did. I only have one question. How people will respect the rule of law if they receive legal aid if they receive counseling when they are in a much higher procedure. I just don't get it. That is why I believe that the amendment of the Social Democrats is being corrected, it is with our amendment, I will not say otherwise, but, in fact, we are just trying to resolve the unresolved. But when I listen to this philosophy of the representative of the ruling coalition, what should Slovenia do in some way or how Slovenia should treat people who are fleeing from their countries because of political pressures, work, of course, I volunteered. Gentlemen, I hope you're aware of what you're saying. In Slovenia, at the time of entry into the European Union, we were on the move and long-winded, and it was estimated that the existing regime was correct. What you are now proposing is not only that what the legislative and legal service has said means the formation of obviously another society, another society, a society in which we will first, in citing, "people", so I will say, "return out", and then we will offer them assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	We support the fact that you are writing in Article 5 that refugees are entitled to advisers. What we have pointed out in our amendment, which was not adopted, was that we wanted to be released, that they were eligible only in the administrative and Supreme Court, but that they were justified at all stages where they needed them. Since this has not been accepted, it is clear that it is the will to accept the amendment that is now proposed to keep the old one in force, because at least we will not dramatically interfere with these rights. So we'll support this amendment. And also this propo, this 5th and 6th paragraphs have their faults. There are too few or too many. You can't just let the wreaths happen like crows wear them and then let them go, and wherever they fall, they fall. The branches are not placed under a political directive, but according to the professional rules on language.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. And Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	Let us therefore go to the amendment to Article 5. See, this amendment, in my opinion, means deharmonisation with the rules of the European Union, in particular through a directive which, I understand, has not been taken over at all in these corrections. This is Article 15, Article 16, of Council Directive 2005/85EC. This Directive is not listed, if I am not mistaken, in directives which should be harmonised. Interesting. That is to say that the right to legal aid in these two articles is stated, which means that, for legal and judicial assistance before the courts, not only before the Supreme and Administrative Courts, this law must bring a correction at this point, which of course guarantees the right to judicial assistance and the right to aid in judicial proceedings, and therefore accept or amend the SD Amendment which deletes this article, which means that the regulation remains the same as it is, or at least amend the first paragraph as we proposed in the second amendment, and you will therefore resolve at least a few problems and also the notes of all of us when you put this law into Parliament once again and harmonise yourself with the 2005 Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	I would expect, given that the government has quite a bit of time to respond to what we are saying here. And I will quote again that it will not appear to be the problems we have with LDS Members and Members of the SD, as the legislature said in its opinion of 29.12.2005: "The solution proposed would, in our opinion, significantly reduce the existing standards of existing regulation..." and so on. "This is particularly pointed out by part of the explanation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of UI-176/05-6, where it is emphasized that the exercise of the right to asylum is difficult in both legal and factual terms." "An asylum seeker," described Mr Petan, Constitutional Court, "has been in trouble in a foreign country and not knowing the legal order and not knowing the language of this country can actually prevent him from exercising his right to asylum." And if he gets counseling only in the administrative and Supreme Court, he won't even be an asylum, he'll be rejected - you know where? - somewhere on our southern border or in Brunika. So please, gentlemen of the government, can you explain this to us? That is why, President, if the government can only answer - I hope that you will respect this; before that, the President of the National Assembly did not wish to call the government himself. But, you know, it's one of the key questions. This makes it clear whether Slovenia is still a democratic state. But if you do not know the legal order that Mr Petan says you should, and you do not know the language of this country, you do not offer counsellors, then of course they are at the mercy of those who accept them. And in the light of some of the following articles, I can see how these, given the democratic foundations of the coalition, the new government, will work. In this way, Mr Petan, the problem of asylum seekers in Slovenia will not be solved; only Slovenia will be assessed, unfortunately, as a country that is no longer democratic and does not respect some of the fundamental rights that asylum seekers have.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I note that the government has not declared time for discussion, so I cannot give the representatives a word. So, I find that I can [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Are you sure? Please, mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Short procedural proposal. I think you can put procedurally on the proposal - of course if no one opposes - to the government time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	This would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure and would also undermine the timing of today's meeting. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, Mr. Bajc, you don't have a word. We continue the debate on Article 6 and the two amendments, the Social Democrats' Group and the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we think that our amendment and the issues dealt with by Article 6 in relation to Article 5 are the most important substantive issue. What's this all about? Article 6 states that, in our opinion, in a very unclear way, with unclear powers and relations, special rights are introduced by the police to a potential asylum at the border. In fact, other regulations, notably the Police Act, the Borders Act and the like, have arranged for the police to have certain powers for anyone arriving in our country and to be treated in an appropriate manner. Therefore, to introduce specific, once again, vague and ambiguous provisions into the asylum law is not good and may have a different meaning. It is important that, instead of the asylum process being conducted by the competent authorities, it introduces a preliminary procedure, before asylum, with the powers of the police, which can be completed as Mr Squeakl has just said, by the fact that there is never an asylum process because the affected person has no possibility of starting it. He's not allowed in our country, but he's refusing at the border. That our warnings were not entirely unfounded, it also shows the government’s response to our amendment. What does the government say in this answer? It says that it is necessary for the police to deal with anyone who steps on the state border under the assumption that he committed an offence. Presence is probably, we know, an assumption. In short, for everyone, it's assumed he's committed a misdemeanor. What does that mean? That means he has to prove he didn't do it. Isn't that right, government gentlemen? And if he has to prove it, he must be able to prove it, and neither the legal protection nor the interpreter provided for him in this preliminary procedure. How can he prove that in front of a police officer? It is very difficult, it needs to know our legal rules, it needs to know international law, because it must clearly express the justified need for international protection and state the circumstances and grounds for protection. If he can't do it, he can't do it, and he can't prove otherwise, he's supposed to do it, and the police can stop him at the border and not let him enter Slovenia, into our country. It is later stated that it is once again very unclear that the facts are being identified in cooperation with the competent authority. This cooperation is completely unclear and unclear; it can, may not be, it does not know to what extent. As a result, Article 6 in conjunction with Article 5 also disturbed those most affected by the most specifically alerted by representatives of civil society organisations, especially the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Therefore, it seems to me that by implementing the proposed amendments, the standard at this point will indeed change significantly. And that's our key point. No one wants a dangerous limit, no one wants to without the necessary number of asylum seekers and refugees in our country, but to say that from the environment from which human rights are gravely violated, where they are in danger of life, and this is a condition that they can be dealt with, for which they are not to blame. And today, Mr. Petan, we are discussing in a way, "Yes, why does it come from a country where human rights are not respected?" This is exactly why he fled this country because he is without legal protection and because it is possible for him to be subjected to either death or severe persecution or unlawful imprisonment and such a thing. Now, if he doesn't know the language enough, because he won't be able to get the necessary legal aid, we will stop him at the border with the police, not with the competent asylum authorities, who all have equal opportunities. Those asylum authorities may also find that someone does not fulfil the conditions, but there is regular legal protection provided, there is a complaint provided for, and there is no such action at the border in this procedure. And that's the big difference. In this part, I think these solutions are bad and they wouldn't make them accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has a replica. Mr. Petan, is there a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Potts, with respect to your debate, I think it was the right thing to do, but there was a mistake. When you mentioned that there was no interpreter present in the proceedings before the police. If we are consistently reading the provisions of the law, there is an entire process, it is said that at the time at the border, if they cannot agree on a potential asylum seeker, there is an interpreter present. And on the fourth page, when the government responds to the amendment to Article 6, it is necessary to stress that the translator is also available in a police procedure and that the authorities responsible for conducting the asylum procedure are working continuously, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you. I'm continuing the debate. Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	President, I will first support the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group's amendment, if not adopted, and the LDS Group's amendment, because the SDS Group's amendment is more radical, but I would appeal, although I know that I may be a little naive to accept the LDS amendment. In this way, if you accept this amendment, you will most clearly answer whether you really care about what you say you are going to do, that you do not want to simply reject the potential applicant in this preliminary police procedure, send him across the border. If the LDS Parliamentary Amendment were adopted, this amendment would simply describe exactly what the policeman is doing in this transitional procedure. And it is clear to everyone that the majority of potential asylum seekers are the first person to meet him is a police officer. There's almost no doubt about it. That's what happens most of the time. Then it's also true that I don't think that all police officers or police officers are soulless people who treat people harshly or anything like that. But there are people who are responsible for doing their job. And if it is also responsible to carry out their work by letting as few people as possible into this asylum process, they will do so. You want it or you don't want it. No one's legalized it. There's no such thing in any of the instructions. This is, of course, something that is said and commanded. That is why, of course, if you do not already support it, although I am asking you to support the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, then support at least the LDS Amendment, because it will dispel our fears that in this transitional process the police will actually identify, register, take into account facts, record and send asylum seekers to the authority to decide on their requests and so on. This is what I would be told, such a solid transitional police procedure that does not leave these doubts and prevents some kind of arbitrariness. As for the time, so the government doesn't answer that she didn't take the time, I think she did the right thing, she said, she doesn't have anything else to say and she better not tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Indirectly, I would like to respond to your esteemed colleague Potsch. If they were able to answer this question properly in Finland, then they probably found some answer, but if they knew in France and Denmark and in Germany and in Luxembourg and Norway and the Czech Republic, and elsewhere, in particular, to this question that he asked, then we will probably be too. Our officers or our system will be able to answer that if they knew everywhere. And there is no harm in copying these guidelines so as not to overwhelm their way of working so as not to be consulted by specific authorities. That way, I don't see any problem here, so it wouldn't be possible for us. In these countries, which I have listed, but this is possible, there is a good compromise, and the system is introduced and the system of work. I don't know why he wouldn't. However, I think we are very generous when it comes to the fact that the country is responsible for something. Because it is possible from the previous period because it was something more imaginary. I wonder if there would be such a discussion, since there was already a problem if it were the cost of the congregation. We have a case like this. There was a whole hall, and there we all knew that was a big problem. But when it comes to imposing something on the country, somehow we don't understand it, and we don't want to understand that it's also a cost. He's also ours, but we don't understand him directly because we don't get him directly out of our pocket. If this is the cost of the municipal budget, of course, the mayor understands it immediately and it is different. I think that in all this debate we have mixed up two concepts: security and freedom, and then we have mixed democracy because of order. This has nothing to do with it. There's something we need to know. Security and freedom are, in fact, inversely proportional. More freedom means less security, that's to say, right there in that country where you can do anything you like, whatever you like, that means we're in great danger because there's no order. And our freedom is great, but we are in danger. More security, less freedom and more freedom less security, we must now make a decision. European Member States, EU Member States and other developing countries have decided to make a compromise. The right relationship between freedom and security. Sometimes we mix it up with democracy. It's not direct, but it's a different concept. I'd remember that, and I don't think it's gonna be too much about the cop's procedure, how he behaves there, how he behaves, whether he's qualified or not. I think even from the guardian we could hear on this very matter from his mouth that the police aren't qualified for this kind of work. I mean, if they're qualified to contact locals, then they'll also qualify for, I don't know, admission at the border of people who run for such or other reasons. This is not important now that they can communicate with them and then find appropriate authorities that can continue this process. I'm not scared here. However, we need to set certain criteria and set ourselves at a certain stage of what interests we represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar needs a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	Actually, it could be a debate. Is it an emergency replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	No, if it's a debate, you have to wait until it's your turn. Then shall I report you? Good. Mr. Rezman, then Dr. Gantar, mag. Tremendous, Mr. Kovacic, Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	I'll replicate it as soon as possible. Not if the congregation were not mentioned, if they had no expense with these asylum seekers. What is the cost of the congregation and what states are governed by legislation. And there's no one here who can invent such an intervention as to put it here and there, on the left and on the right. This principle that if a country imposes something on a person, it must also accompany money, and the state is in breach of it all the time. Another time. With regard to the amendment, I would like to say that we in the DeSUS Group have proposed an amendment. The amendment was rejected not only on the working body, it was also rejected by the government, with the position that I will now read. The proposer considers that the proposed text is not appropriate because the actions of the police mentioned in the amendment are already legally laid down by other rules and thus constitute unnecessary duplication. That's what we say. What the DeSUS Group has written down is what the government accepts. However, I think this is needlessly rewritten. It would have been better to write twice than to understand once a mistake, for we now see how many mistakes or differences we have in our understanding of this dictatorship. Therefore, since this amendment has not been supported, we will support the amendment of one or the other to this Article, because it does improve the current text. However, I am interested in how the government continues to claim that the police do not decide anything. I'm afraid I can't understand that. I also understand this from your explanations, decision-making as a matter of fact, because the police in their findings then ask Ljubljana on the phone, and there someone from the competent authority says on the basis of information that the police give him, how to act. Indirectly, these findings have already provided an opportunity for decision-making. And that's true, then you can see it in a practical context. When a police officer finds out something, we find out where the applicant goes either to an asylum or a refugee home. And that's my call. And since the government has not taken the time to discuss it, it may be right to discuss such things later in the lobby if we cannot here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	I'd like to say this one more time. First of all, I don't buy that logic, more security, less freedom. Or those logics that say that we must defend democracy with all means, including democratic ones, but ultimately we have nothing to defend and we do not know why we will use security if we no longer have freedom. I don't buy that kind of logic. But that's the logic I've been seeing lately in this country. And that logic goes beyond the debate of this asylum law. And September 11th is also a convenient excuse for our government. If you have read the police's prior procedures as accurately as they are lapidarly, briefly described in this explanation, you will see, as we thought and as I think, that it is usually the first person with whom a potential asylum seeker comes into contact, the police. It's almost like that. And this is mostly in all of these countries, at border crossings, inside or anywhere else. But what's not clear from this explanation, or clearly the opposite, is that the police find out his identity, determine his way of getting there, etc., and hand it over. If that were the case with us, we don't have any problems. But we do have the possibility that the police in the preliminary procedure may reject this without actually initiating the proceedings and without including the notable authority referred to in paragraph 3 in the procedure, as it has convicted and sent him straight back across the border as a criminal. That's the problem. The problem, therefore, is that we are actually using or applying the directive and practice of other countries in some very perfidious way, in my opinion, we probably went under the standard of the directive. But this will be decided by the judicial institutions in this country. Obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you. Well, I'm in a lot of temptation whether some rhetorical locksmiths about freedom should be set free or not. But I'm going to give it up, and I'm going to focus on Article 6. As explained in Article 6, this is, the original Article 26 of the Asylum Act, it can be understood that the applicant is in fact the most important decision-making rate; everything else is of secondary importance. And I find it very difficult to accept the argument that a police officer will not make a decision after having to ask the competent authority referred to in Article 20 whether the application for asylum is justified. No one objects to the fact that the police have a role to play in the process because the first one with the asylum seeker at the border is also luck or in any other area is at the airport. But this role should be precisely defined. It should be written down exactly what is the role, what are the police's tasks. And if some people are so keen to refer to European practice and like to list other European countries as to how this is arranged, then let us say what they have to say, as a rule, in European police duties. Police usually identify asylum seekers and their registration in a large number of countries, record relevant facts, including illegal entry or stay in the Republic of Slovenia, and send asylum seekers to the authority responsible for deciding on their requests and transmitting the data collected to the competent authority. In fact, this is already regulated in other laws, including the Police Act, so it seems to us that what the applicants now offer as Article 6 is not necessary, because the legislation already regulates it and we would have done it without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I cannot help but conclude that there are many debates that represent a very significant degree of deceiving and dropping of fog, and also the last debate that has been led in this direction, that this provision of Article 6 accelerates the process or that the rapidity of the process is something bad. Once again, I must say that, if the circumstances for quick decision-making are something commendable, thank God that the process can be completed quickly if all the circumstances are such that they enable the decision to be made. If not, then the procedure should be extended. But if it's possible quickly, thank God, I don't know why it's anything controversial. As regards this preliminary procedure, I would like to reiterate that this procedure and asylum procedure should not be interfered with. These are two separate procedures. And this preliminary, so-called preliminary procedure, led by police officers, takes place only if illegal entry into the Republic of Slovenia or illegal stay occurs. And it's perfectly normal that only an officer can deal with this at the initial stage. Thus, a policeman would also treat a Slovenian citizen who would illegally enter the Republic of Slovenia or who would illegally reside in the Republic of Slovenia. Exactly the same. Why this should not apply to a foreigner, as is the case with a Slovenian citizen. The same or the same arrangements as these apply to this procedure, as mentioned above, in many other countries. Not to mention all these countries again. In most countries, this procedure is very similar or identical. So I don't know what such fear is. There are also such practices as are envisaged here in these other countries. That's what I'd like to say when there was a speech that, in this case, if a police officer completes the procedure and finds the offence of leaving that man without any right and being removed from the country and so on. That's not true either. Each such person has the opportunity, like each other in the appeal proceedings, to challenge this decision, i.e. to a district court and a higher court. That's one thing. However, the second point is that, of course, in the event of a clearly expressed need for international protection, it is again concerned with this previous offence being remedied, as this procedure, the introduction of an asylum procedure exculpates punishment for an offence and an asylum procedure begins. So it's settled again. And there's something else I'd like to say. Nor is it true that a person who is in this process before the police cannot express his will because he does not have an interpreter and so on. Nor is this true, for in this process a translator is available, and in this sense he can help and properly translate what he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Look, folks, I think in these performances, when I hear them, there's a crazy lack of confidence in the Slovenian police. I think it's some things that are offensive to the police. When I follow all of this, more by the media, these comments on these non-democratic methods, which are envisaged in this Article 6, the derogation of just about everything that is necessary in asylum procedures, I really thought I would run into some monster literally. And that I will see from the articles of the law some procedures of some police monsters. However, I wonder why such a strong lack of confidence in the Slovenian police. Now, my colleague and colleagues, tell us in what state you left the Slovenian police, what the Slovenian police were doing during your leadership, what they were doing against their citizens, what they were doing against foreign asylum seekers. I am absolutely committed to the fact that the institution of asylum must be comparablely regulated as in other European countries, and that this classical standard of protection of human rights is maintained at a high level. But the lady had previously commented on the behaviour of the Slovenian police, they are on their way to this. The equations. Yeah, what kind of behavior? I know about some police abuses during the case, or before the case of Vič-Holmec, when the Slovenian police systematically discredited and looted inside the police. As chairman of the commission of inquiry, I had the opportunity to take a closer look. I think those times are over. Are your staff still doing what they used to do? I don't know, I think we'll finally have to come to the point where we trust our country's police as a normal democratic state. That they didn't collect the negatives themselves. And if a previous police procedure is such a horrifying thing, say how, practically, how has the police been used so far for purposes that are not in accordance with democratic procedures. Where do you think the chances are where those inside police officers are going to do that? Otherwise, I don't think it's such a terrible thing. She's not that scary, or she's not scary at all. I am all these forms in which countries are similar, and I can't even imagine otherwise. Of course, if you don't trust the police, if you think it was through and through negative selection, that they were systematically ordered to mistreat foreigners, then of course it's possible to think that way. I've heard a lot of bad things about police being abused in the previous system, but I hope those times are over. But if you have evidence that the police are still doing so, then you are obliged to state them here. You have to tell them, and not by your thumb, how this country will act completely wrongly, how terrifying this country will become and attract in every argument those who, in fact, sometimes pursue some anti-State interests in these matters, I think counter-State interests in this sense that they want to humiliate this country, make it worse, internationally comparable, because they support another country, some other system in another country is trying to make it better. If you have this, I'd like to hear you say it again, all of it. I don't know, I wouldn't mind it if some thing might be specified that the dictatorship would be clear, but in general, as you speak and attract here, but I don't think you're laying the groundwork for the government to be able to make a constructive change, or for all of us to make a constructive change in the dictates of these articles, because you probably don't say here anymore, as if a police officer has a pure discretionary right to throw a foreigner across the border immediately. You can't say that. It's not like that. There's no such thing as a discretionary right. If we are to advocate for the Slovenian police to be highly professional, then I am sure that these abuses will not even occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I know it is very difficult to become immune to all temptations, debates, but try to remain within the framework of Article 6 and within the two outstanding amendments. Mr. Gantar Replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Comrade Jerovšek, first I will commend you because I believe that you believe that the right to asylum is a fundamental human right. That's what I believe. The voice you used to say that tells me about it, not just words. The other thing is, you're telling us the mistrust of the Slovenian police. My sentence is very simple: trust is good, control and procedures are even better. I am surprised, however, that once, my colleague Jerovšek was very strongly obsessed with various conspiracy theories in Slovenia. It was all a conspiracy, and today, so to speak, he trusts in anyone, only that the Slovenian state is under this government to do the right thing. Of course, I think there is also a need for a coalition MP to have some distance to his own government. Sooner or later, Comrade Jerovšek, you will be forced to expose her because this is a record, and you will be forced to expose her. I myself believe that the preliminary procedure, as is being processed here, may be inconsistent with EU directives, the European Council. Especially because, in explanation, I once again say, in the preliminary police procedure, I have nowhere to trace these forms of police conduct that we have with us, when in fact we judge a policeman to decide in the preliminary procedure whether or not it should go into an asylum procedure. And that, of course, is this gray zone. Some may be strictly considerate, and so on, and will act properly, as if the intention of marriage, as you say, was not. And that's what colleague Potz talked about, too, where things need to be improved and where you say we're the only ones criticizing the government. We have here indeed an amendment that does not remove this previous police procedure, but specifies the functioning of the police as a police officer, in this previous police procedure, when it tells him what it means, what its task is. And if you accept this article or this addition to the amendment, I withdraw everything, I'd say, the charges I've made in citing "clearly stated" before. But this is really an amendment that is useful and would solve this dilemma. But above all, I would have saved the dilemma of the police at the borders. And, of course, not just at the borders, inside, when, say, they get illegal refugees and so on. He'd solve their dilemmas, so he's good, not just to save our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I applied for a discussion because the replica on the replica is not allowed. He said it was a replica, he just expressed himself that he was being misconstrued, instead of being misrepresented. Neither is mandatory under Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. Please calm down, if you don't, I can stop this meeting. Mr. Yuri has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	I'm also replicating my colleague Jerovšek. Jerovšek is, if you listen a little bit, our first man of parliamentary foreign policy. The issue that we are dealing with today also has its own external policy dimensions. But we discussed this law only on the Internal Policy Committee or equal opportunities. And I miss it, too, I take my responsibility that I did not give the initiative as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee, so that maybe as an interested body we too would be dealing with it. But given that my colleague Jerovšek, the chairman of the Committee, objects to all the warnings, I would like to reiterate my invitation to the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Refugees, perhaps once later to meet with the High Commissioner to invite him to our committee and to discuss this matter. Even if the law is passed and it will take effect. Later on, he may also have the power to change his mind on the basis of these warnings. Therefore, once again, Comrade Jerovšek, let us then discuss, if we have not had the opportunity before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	I'm not going to talk about Mr. Jerovsk, but I'm going to talk about the government that wrote this -- what it says here. Comrade Gantar said that in the Liberal Democracy we do not believe that the police, if you want, are unrespectable now that the new power has come to Slovenia. It is true, however, that the new authorities have written in Article 6 of the new procedure, and we will now legislate this procedure. And this procedure makes the police a very repressive body. Why? Since, without the possibility of an asylum counsellor at the border, the police have determined whether, as stated in Article 6, paragraph 2, the possibility given by Articles 2 and 3 of Article 1 has been exercised is the right to international protection. And we in the Liberal Democracy do nothing but say that, as the government claims, because it is a matter of prescribing the service of the offence and in the event that the foreigner's statement does not reveal the circumstances that he is an asylum, then he is dealt with under the law on foreigners. And this procedure, which you have now written down in your marriage, gives the police the chance that, in saying so, it will be a very, very repressive body to the asylum-seekers. And that's what it's about, colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, whether we're gonna give the police that right. Let me tell you that the legislative and legal service, not the opposition, but the legislative and legal service, points out the problem that the police are given some important powers to decide on the further treatment of a foreigner and so on. The police will decide whether or not he is an asylum-seekers and because you withdraw legal aid from him in Article 5, I believe that very few who will come either to an asylum home or, as it says here, will commit an offence will not give him a statement, they may leave the asylum home and then simply be treated by the law on aliens, which is expulsion. I therefore regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written down the procedure in Article 6, as proposed here. And I regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is on our amendment, an amendment where we would just say that the police should identify the applicant, record relevant facts, including that he, of course, is otherwise illegal in Slovenia, and send asylum seekers to the authority responsible for the decision and transmit the information already collected to the competent authorities. And you, if this procedure is adopted, turn it into a body, into a competent authority, which will decide whether it has the option of asylum, because in fact the second paragraph says that it will simply, in citing, find out whether the foreigner's statement reveals the circumstances that allow him to become an asylum, otherwise he will simply be a foreigner and will be treated in accordance with the law on a foreigner, is said to be an unwanted citizen. And after we write such an amendment, we get a government opinion saying that an amendment that would reduce the possibility of a repressive role of the police does not support. And then the government states that it is simply that the police act here as a criminal body and that it is a matter of prescribing the service of the offence. And we know what to do with that kind of work. Therefore, we believe that it would be correct for a procedure as recorded to be changed, because, on the contrary, you say about this in the Government's explanation of the amendment, "if a foreigner clearly needs protection, he is immediately brought to an asylum where he submits his application". Please. Who will determine if a foreigner clearly needs protection? He does not have a consultant and the police treat him as a criminal body and it is here that the police are given a very clear procedure, under what conditions, and how, on the basis of the first, second, I do not know which paragraph of Article 26 or the new Article 6 is in fact only dealt with under the law on foreigners and therefore swords out of the country. I would be very happy if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would take a few minutes of the time available to us today. Mr President of the National Assembly has successfully saved almost four hours of debate for the first two items of today's agenda. We have plenty of time. Of course, the government does not want to respond to this and it is right to hear it in a debate, not in a written opinion, where the argument in the law's explanation is repeated, why it would be good to have a procedure, a procedure that we will write down in law, but to limit. And since this is a procedure in the law on amendments and additions to the law on asylum, of course it should be a key presumption that the asylum seeker is an asylum seeker in Slovenia, not that the crucial point is that he has committed a violation of the illegal border crossing and is, of course, treated under the law on foreigners. This is about the same as, you have cited the reasons why you can get this person into another marriage and the police or those who first meet them decide whether he belongs to the first or the second article. At the same time, you took away his legal advice. Gentlemen, I don't know, the fifth and sixth paragraphs, as you suggest, if you don't accept the amendments, will confirm me in that not us, but the ruling coalition wants to make the Slovenian police into something called "fearing," some really powerful repressive body. And with the procedure we write down in the law, we give him even this legal mandate. What is the difference between the Slovenian police at the time of the previous and current government? During the previous government and under the Law on Public Servants, he led the government independently appointed a public official. The first law you passed is the basic premise that the police from the Minister of the Interior, an independent body from the government, have broken. Now, in the procedures we are adopting, you are giving the police additional options, which, of course, we believe will significantly change the nature of police action in relation to those who are looking for their political support here or who are simply looking for asylum here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you. First, a few words concerning mistrust with the Slovenian police. What I'm trying to say is that the amendment itself has nothing to do with mistrust. When this starts to touch us, then we will no longer be allowed to amend, we will not be able to discuss and argue. Such labelling of those who propose or advocate some amendments is not justified. A second observation was made in relation to the generality of the debate. Today we are talking about a law, a general act, and it would be good if this general act were universal enough not to be constantly complementary and amended because it would be too general. On specific matters, we will discuss individual cases when there will be a report on the implementation of one or another service on the agenda. Those of us who speak of amendments have nothing to do with the advance mistrust of the police, as I say. There is nothing to be suspicious of, and nothing to be blindly convinced that the police can never be wronged. We also have some other laws that say about how to control the police, including how to sanction them when they are guilty or when they are violating them. To discuss the law and the amendments, however, forgive me, it cannot be assessed simply as offensive and unacceptable and terrifying. We also allow this possibility that even the police can sometimes do something wrong, do something wrong, or even abuse something. And the last thing I wanted to say was about the connection or not to the previous and asylum procedure. Not that they're not connected, they're linked directly, both by content and by time. The preliminary procedure shall be an introduction to an asylum procedure or to prevent an asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I am truly sorry that in my performance, my colleague Gantar was recognized, which I did not have in mind at all, because in any event I consider him a certain Democrat. And I don't know where he got the idea that I was once obsessed with conspiracy theory. I don't know if I look panicky, nervous, that I'm possessed by some persecutor. I know some people who have something like this, but I'm not gonna say it out loud either. Comrade Gantar, I must say, but I was also faced with certain plots inside the police, according to the work duties I received in this assembly. This is called the commission of inquiry on the case Vič - Holmec. And this commission, I must say, didn't call it that, but it kind of confirmed the conspiracy inside the police with a message. You have to read it. At that time, the LDS Group did not allow this report to go to the plenary in order to be accepted, because there was also clear evidence of misconduct, Minister Bandelj. Then there was also a successful interpretation in this regard, as Mr Kos intervened in human rights in the case of journalist Ranc in the context of that conspiracy inside the police. And that was a strong conspiracy against human rights, against journalists.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Mr Jerovšek, I can ask more about Article 6 or the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	And that's why I say no. Here, however, I have only talked about the fact that this gap that I have encountered in this regard, I admit that I did not actively participate in the previous part of these discussions, but I also read in the Saturday annex the answer of the High Commissioner for Foreigners. I think the answer to the journalistic controversy and the press report was rather strangely written, etc. I've been watching so much. And that's where I saw this spread that we were exaggerating. It is as if Slovenia will now become the worst dictatorship, the worst country that throws across the borders of every foreigner and so on. That, I must say, bothers me. I don't think there's anything wrong with the police. In the previous committee I led, I said that my working method is a systematic doubt about the correct conduct of intelligence services, always and wherever abuses are always possible. And there's gonna be some abuse going on in the police. And here, some people are intruding, as if the police were ordered to systematically commit abuses. But I have so much faith in this country and democratic institutions and democratic spirit, and I have no evidence that this would be the case. But if you know something like that, I'll be the loudest, no matter how much I'm a coalition MP. I don't think I've ever expressed impatience against any stranger, I don't have it, and I can't. Of course, it is also clear that today, in this globalised world, you have trots of refugees from which it is logical that everyone, as an easy way to enter a country, will be notified of asylum. But surely we all know that asylum is not always justified, it is not necessary, it is not appropriate. Of course, I do not want Slovenia to become world famous as a country where they literally invite a variety of refugees to receive asylum here, but who may be dangerous who have a criminal past or anything - that this will be the easiest thing in this country, that there is no verification. But I don't want to do that, because I think we have to love our country so much that we don't make a bed here, like, even international crime or anything, and one reasonable border between caution and broad-mindedness, some proper border. I'm saying, if we don't act so radically against everything and make it so difficult what's in the undertone of these government articles, then I think it would be possible to write down some additional smaller guards today, so that the police can be more clearly charged with what they can do and what they can't do. But you've taken the matter into black and white painting, which is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Master's degree in Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you. Turning things around is becoming quite systemic. But it was that NGOs, in particular the High Commissioner for Refugees, warned the drafters of the law, tried to prove that the solutions were bad. The legal and legal service has warned that things are unacceptable, and it seems that a person should not say anything because he is ascribed to a variety of low slopes. It is true, however, that over the past 30 years, I have been convinced that knowledge must be constantly renewed and that it does not seem so heretical to me if it is said that police must also be further trained to do so. And that was the talk. However, because some people tend to repeat things over and over and over again, they do not check what they are about, one is competence, and the other is ability we have already processed, but it seems that things need to be repeated again and again without hope, so that at least in this room some Members understand them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. A brief debate. As long as we have a national border, as a citizen of this Republic of Slovenia, every crossing across this state border across the border, a small border crossing without documents is a violation. I don't understand colleagues who deny that someone who has come outside the border crossing without documents has committed some kind of offence. Yes, someone else will, who has come in this way or seen him in a vehicle or on the road or anywhere, a citizen, a citizen informs someone other than the police, so far we have no gendarmerie or, I don't know, any other form of organized, uniformed people who would check it out. When this procedure, when this officer finds out that he has actually come outside the border crossing, does not have the relevant document or ID or passport, he will find out. And he'll probably say he's asking for asylum. Then there is a procedure, and I think that our officers who will deal with such people are capable and qualified to be referred in accordance with the procedure laid down in this law. Once again, I repeat, as I understand it, and as I see it from this law, but if you cannot agree with your mouth, not with your hands, no, I don't know what, an official translator may ask for it. Like someone from the bench said before, yeah, they're gonna get a book. No, it's only one-third there, I'll say, next time he's in an asylum, he gets a book. And if that book can't read or is in an unknown language, let's say it's in some military language, it has the right to demand that it be given a translator and that it understands and can read those rights that it has when it's already found that it has applied for asylum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I do not see any additional deadlines with regard to Article 6 and two amendments, so I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Our amendment proposes deleting Article 11. It is directly related to what we have also proposed to Article 2 as an addendum. Although the government does not support this amendment. As I am reading the justification for rejecting our proposal, in fact, it is precisely the reason why we are putting it in. The hastyness of the procedure is one that requires serious reflection on the answer to the question whether a part of the country is safe or not due to internal security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Anyone else? I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and once again the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. There is no debate, so I conclude it. I am putting to the debate Article 15, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members again. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	The right to work, which is deleted by Article 18 of the Act, which also refers to free legal assistance in proceedings before the Administrative and Supreme Court, is written down by proposing in its amendment that the Social Democrats amend this article by adding a new indent which reads as follows: Right to work and paragraph 5 is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting to the debate the last 22nd Article and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you. The explanation for this article is very simple. Asylum seekers may stay in an asylum home for a long time, but they do not have the right to work for a year. We believe that this is too long and that asylum seekers should be allowed to come to this right, or that they can start exercising the right to work for half a short period of time after six months, because we believe that, in order to prevent work from being given the black better right, there is no guarantee yet, and we are aware that the asylum applicant will actually be able to obtain the job. The possibility of right to work is so much more important because, by limiting the movement to an asylum home, with the option or by deleting the right to a allowance, any possibility of an additional source of earnings is excluded. However, I am not sure that this is my view that all asylum seekers will be able to get a job in an asylum home, as the applicant says, and that this work will also be properly rewarded, given how many asylum seekers there are and what their professional qualifications are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I agree with my opposition colleagues that the law before us is more restrictive than what is now in force. But I have to say, that's exactly what makes me happy, and I'm happy to support him to be more restrictive. But I will not support the amendments to Article 22. This is because I feel that working in our country is no longer a right, but a luxury. It is a pleasure for him who has it, and I think that this country must take care of people first, its citizens and its citizens, then its refugees from foreign countries, for political or any other reason. As far as statistics, which have been mentioned several times in the debate so far, I must say that those you have looked at, you probably have not noticed that refugees or asylum seekers are more in countries that allow work as short as possible than in countries that do not allow work. Therefore, we can rightly fear that if we lower this threshold for one year, something similar will happen in Slovenia. And I think it's on the part of the social democracy colleagues that it came, and one comparison with Germany, that Germany is not already so regulated. I must also say that Germany, if we like to compare ourselves with it, has this threshold for one year, just as it is now regulated in our asylum law. I regret that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party has not been adopted on the Internal Policy Committee, which has completely banned the work of asylum-seekers, as this would, on the one hand, also shorten the time of stay in our country. As has already been said, these amendments themselves, which seem to be attractive to someone but do not achieve any goal, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! As has already been said, in this section the Slovenian National Party has not achieved what it would have wanted. So you all referred to the so-called European Directive, which should allow asylum seekers the right to work, but you could do so by restricting the right to work within the asylum home, and that would also be satisfied with the partial payment that could be determined, and we did not do so. 100,000 are unemployed in Slovenia, of which a few are single mothers and having a free labour market within the European Community, we already have pressure from the Eastern countries on our employers who offer cheap labour. Today, we are faced with another law that will allow foreigners to work after one year of stay. This article will allow these asylum seekers to do just that, and they will also be able to obtain a work permit, and on this basis probably another permit. And I ask you how you will guarantee the fundamental constitutional right enshrined in the Constitution, that is the right to work, to those people who are already waiting in line in fact at the institution. Among them are doctors of science who do not get a job, that I do not talk about disabled people, and there will be more tomorrow, because this cheap labour market from third world countries will be so much bigger. For if you look at the statistics, I said it earlier, essentially the attack on the asylum home is increasing and it is unacceptable here to compare Germany and to say how well it is arranged. In fact, Germany has an intolerance to foreigners, and that is how we will trigger intolerance to foreigners in Slovenia. Tomorrow we will also have "skinheads" in Slovenia, we will also have pressure on so-called asylum seekers by those who will not have a job. Then you'll say there's chauvinism, extremism, and I don't know what. We ourselves make the conditions for such a way, for such pressures, for such an extreme attitude towards these people, who will, of course, try to find their own existence here. And there's something else I'd like to point out. In Germany, you can look quickly also when some of you have already mentioned Germany three times, what is the attitude towards the Kurds, the Turks, our Yugoslav nations, or the people working there. Nothing is nice, and it is also true that these people are exposed to violence to a large extent. Is that what we want in Slovenia to do with asylum seekers? We ourselves have seen an asylum home, and no one can say that this asylum is not well - arranged. It is a new building that is essentially designed and built into a framework of action that basically has a discipline and also has an escaped worker, but these asylum seekers are like in a hotel. They don't even have to clean rooms. Today we are talking about the right to work. It'll be a bigger hotel for them. Come on, think about what you're taking. In the morning we will not have 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia, our citizens and citizens, who, as we say, have a constitutional right to work; 200 000 will and will be even greater social unrest. Think about it!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. It's a replica of the Master of Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u178	It would be wonderful if the shortening of this time for the right to work would solve the problem of unemployment in Slovenia, but it will not. But when we follow other countries, let us also say that some within a one-year period of waiting for the right to work give asylum seekers, refugees language courses, training and everything else so that after receiving asylum they can enter as job seekers and are competitive in the labour market. What does it mean to be able to live with your work, we know. For the image of a man, it is essential to respect him alone, and the costs for the country are slightly lower, given that we are already in the process of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you. I, my fellow Members and colleagues, would not have had any problems with Article 46a, paragraph 1, unless I had read it differently. I can tell he's like the one in the marriage, even the luxury. Indeed, Slovenians, as members of the European Union, have been indirectly written in some paragraphs that work can begin five, six or seven years later, even though we are members of the European Union. Indeed, the European Union countries, many of them, have acquired the right to postpone the employment of European citizens. A Slovenian in a number of European countries six, seven years does not have the right to work. So if we're already comparing foreign countries, let's compare them fairly. A Slovenian citizen of the European Union must not be employed in his own country for four, five or six years and one year for asylum seekers is at stake with us. This is also worth considering.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I will read who else is on the list of applicants: Mr Bajc, Mrs Shirca and Mr Jelinčič Trimeniti. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Majda Potrat that even if we were to stop or if we had given this delay three years, when the asylum can start working, we would not be able to save our employment or unemployment. However, we are talking about the completion of the asylum law, we are talking about asylum seekers, not economic immigrants. And for this reason, I consider it unnecessary and that the provision - perhaps it could be made, but this amendment is not, also to support the possible amendment of the Slovenian National Party. We're talking about asylum seekers who have certain rights once this status has been granted to them. All those who come, as I said before, illegally across the border, are looking for work, either at our home or elsewhere, and will not apply for asylum, have a different status, and you are looking for a job, and you will probably find a job, even if we have six, twelve or not in this marriage for how many months.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac, since the replica on the replica is not allowed, I wrote you at the end of the list for discussion. I give my word to Mrs. Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u184	Sometimes this discussion reminds us that we are turning asylum seekers into parasites who are installed in comfortable hotel rooms. Parliamentarians and parliamentarians have received a manual on the protection of refugees, which specifically speaks about the rights and duties of the refugee. "The refugee has the right to a safe haven, but international protection includes more than physical protection. Refugees should receive all the same rights and basic assistance as any other alien legally resident in the country, including certain fundamental rights that each individual has." And so on. "All economic and social rights apply to refugees as well as to all other individuals. Every refugee should have access to medical care and every adult refugee should have the right to work." The solution, as it has been so far, has been better, comparable to the liberal solution Norway has. And translating, moving this right to work for a one-year period will have several consequences. Long - term waiting in some form of forced labor will also affect the psychological well - being of asylum seekers. After all, it is mostly a very active social group, and in many cases it is also young, healthy people who cannot get a job successfully, and in the fact that this way work can be used more in black, which, of course, can be subject to great dangers and consequences, the situation can deteriorate on this issue. We also know that, given that the right to money and pocket money is being abolished, there will be so much more. I mean, I repeat, we would not need to lower the standards that we have reached, and I agree that this postponement period for work will, of course, be reduced or left to the solutions that have been appropriate so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc is requesting a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you. My colleague Majda, you are now completely third. Refugees mentioned on the basis of this literature that we have read are a completely third category of foreign citizens. You're a fugitive when you come to a country, say, from our former republics, which we still have some in our country. In the administrative process, you get a decision that has granted you refugee status, you have a personal ID card that is a document to legitimize yourself within a country, and you have all the rights as a practically Slovenian citizen, except that you can't vote, and maybe there's a limit. And you can't use that personal document you received and walked with him through Slovenia to cross the state border or you can't go outside Slovenia with this document. This is a completely third category of people, living also in our country's territory and probably other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian National Party, we think that this law, which we are currently discussing, is a rather delicate matter. In fact, things would have to be tighter and shorter than they are now. I don't think we should agree at all that some foreigners, I don't know where, come from, come from, and have more rights than our citizens and citizens. This is unacceptable, and it is foolish and can be remembered in two other opposition parties, for I have never heard anything so stupid. And then here, I kind of remind myself of the time when the United List of Social Democrats is now SD, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u189	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u190	promised that they would have 100 thousand new jobs overnight. [[...]] Please, you're going to make 100,000 new poor people because you're going to bring 100,000 foreigners, refugees or asylum seekers or whatever you call them here. The terms are also mixed. Of the two parties who had been in power for 12 years and had already been in power, I expected them to separate what a refugee is, what an asylumaire is, and what an economic immigrant is. And how is it possible that someone is an asylum seeker with a valid passport, please! It's a farce! And people are making a fool of themselves from the Slovenian state. He comes with a valid passport, even with Slovenian, and says he's an asylum boy. After all, our parliamentary group was the only one here visiting an asylum home. And what we found: that the asylum home is half full of gypsies from Maribor! From Maribor! How are these asylum seekers and I don't know what else? I think it's a terrible thing. And we are no longer agreeing to this article, this 46.a., which speaks of the right to work. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u191	Article 22, Mr. Jelinčič!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u192	that work may begin one year after the application for asylum has been lodged. [[...]] Please! What about our people? But should our people die on the road?Oh, my God! What a state we are that some are more important than ourselves! Something like that is done by a total idiot or someone who wants to sabotage his own country. But that man doesn't have his own country, so it's not his country, because he's an internationalist, because he's thinking about multiculturalism, and I don't know what else. I think that's terrible. Ask! Let some go who have so far been in a glass bell and were lying in a vat to go a little among the people! Let them ask you how Slovenians and Slovenians breathe! They will see that they have food in their asylum home, they have an apartment, they get a dress, they have everything and they get their allowance; and they get more than a Slovenian worker who works and has two children unemployed and underage at home, and a wife and gets 70,000 tolars a month. And you don't care? What the hell is wrong with these people?Oh, my God! Shame! Shame! I don't know how you dare say anything like that and explain it here. Of course, Mrs. Shirca, your smiles go there. It's no wonder your husband got from your client a whole series of works that he would then do, perform them and so on. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u193	Mr. Jelinčič, please, this is already beyond the scope of Article 22.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u194	You know how, Mr Vice-President, those smiles of Mrs Shirce's colleague are very out of these articles, and perhaps beyond which other articles. And if some people are already saying how the words'spare' should be kept, let them also be shown by behavior to know, say, use the code, even though it has not yet been adopted, and I hope it never will be. It is a shame that we have such discussions in the National Assembly under such a law. Instead of tightening things up. Go look around Europe and see what's in Europe. After all, I have not heard that any of the two former ruling parties would come forward when the Austrians were sending and sending around text messages, by killing one Slovenian each text. They don't give a shit! They don't care if something like this happens! But if he comes, I don't know who's gonna ask for all the rights, but they're gonna give him, Mrs. Shirca and the other colleagues from LDS and SD. Here, go to an asylum and take these people home if you love them so much and if you're so generous that you want to help them in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Jelinchich. Did you wake up from your sleep? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u198	Ask someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u199	Mr. Jelinczych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u200	I hope to see a more friendly face in there than Mr. Jelinčič. Good morning, Mr. Jelinčič, once again. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Good morning, Mr. Jelinčič, again. [[...]] So first of all, I would say that in this article I do not really understand a government that restricts the right to work and says that asylum seekers, not refugees, not migrants, not anyone and so on, can only be employed after one year. At least we suggest they come after three months. We do not understand this in particular because we believe that if they are already in the asylum process, it is said, serious, well founded law that they are being persecuted at home, that they are in danger, then of course, if they have the opportunity and the opportunity, even within the framework of the legislation that regulates it, they do! Why not - why can't we take care of ourselves, why should we, for example, spend the country's financial resources and especially if they want to. Some of these asylum seekers, I know they're probably few, but they can also be the highly educated people we need. I have talked about this more on the committee, and I have pointed out that we have made poor use of, say, the high intellectual potential - this time refugees, not asylum seekers - from Bosnia or anywhere. I don't think that makes any sense. The main argument that every cook from the national kitchen brings to the table and seals it is, of course, that they steal the work of their home people and that they are allowed more and that a better life than, of course, the Slovenes who have, what I know, such or other bad conditions. Firstly, if they have the opportunity to work, they will share working conditions and working opportunities, abilities such as they are. If there's no work, they won't get it. And, of course, it is important to know that in Slovenia unemployment is one of the lowest in the European Union, but still all unemployment is too high. But let's see, go to Gorenjska among craftsmen, go to Posavje, when fruits are removed and so on, a lot of work in Slovenia is not appreciated and Slovenians are some or some are so proud that they don't appreciate each work, I believe neither colleagues in the Slovenian National Party. And we're looking for a labour force and we're importing it as permanent, temporarily from all ends, I'd say, Eastern Europe and beyond. Why not also allow them to work? And so on and so forth. It is likely, however, that, interestingly, this right to work that respected colleague Jelinčič denies, of course, to clearly, potential asylum seekers, because he himself does not appreciate it. And that's the only good reason he's giving it up because he doesn't appreciate it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I think we are having an important debate today. And if this is a debate, it must be fair and proper, we must not deceive. Previously, some strange numbers were heard about pockets and these things, but of course they don't. What will be the allowance, this is the rule, and the allowance is a thousand 700 tolars a month, which is less than two tickets for a movie or two tickets. And when we give you some numbers and data, of course it's more than populism you have to be realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič the Noble has applied to the replica for Dr. Gantar's discussion. Well, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I can appreciate the work, even though it's questionable how someone works. However, there have been no major errors in my work, but Mr Gantar's work has been visible in Bovec and in Bovsk for some time, and it will be a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u206	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think things have gone somewhere else right now, and it might be possible to freshen up what we're discussing today. We are discussing asylum seekers and asylum seekers, which are not very much in Slovenia. If all asylum seekers were granted this status, they would not be many, but of course there are many fewer. Let's just look at the numbers talking about it, and we'll actually see that we're talking about a very, very small group of people. And I think it's good that the group is small, because it does talk about maybe some part of the world being more regulated than it has ever been. There could be more of them, of course. We know that the situation in the world is such that those who restrict freedom remain, and those who advocate it withdraw. In fact, it is never entirely reliable who will never need such protection. Protection does not mean, of course, an infinite number of rights now, as far as I understand it, and the proposal of this amendment does not say that the state will have to provide work for someone to get it and others will not. That's right, you go to the market, and of course if you're interesting with your knowledge, with what you know, then someone will hire you. As far as Slovenia is concerned. It is really big unemployment, but we know that it is mainly structural unemployment, it is said that we still have a lot of open and what is open, but Slovenian citizens do not occupy, we do not want or cannot, we do not know - however. But perhaps one of those of course who comes to us is able and able to do so. This would not only contribute to itself, of course, but also to what we call the prosperity of Slovenia. And it's a shame, of course, that he's stuck there and actually losing his will and power and his knowledge in some way. I think that this debate, however, needs to be brought into some normal human context and not to smoke with everything that burns or burns, which can also explode and then everything is blurry and we don't know what we're talking about anymore. Not to mention these personal matters, which are actually completely depressed. That is why we are still talking about this law, and I think it would be good to support those things that are mitigating sharpness, but what are smaller rights, or in some way select them or give them a decision in the hands of those who can actually make a final decision, not. The problem with this is, for example, arbitration is that a police officer can refuse an asylum at the border. There is no document about this anymore, and I think if anyone else does, other European countries will complain if they say anywhere they have already asked for it, but they have been rejected, but there will be nothing about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Once again, there will be no confusion that we absolutely know in the Slovenian National Party that we are discussing Article 22 of the Law and Article 46a. If there's anything else we want to say, don't say it's demagogia on one side, but if it's not demagogia, you say it's xenophobia. I'll make it clear again. No one's obvious, at least in government law, some opportunities for someone to work. She gave this option over a year. The Slovenian national party was clear. This option would have been our day: it would not have been given at all or after five years. But no one wonders why. I hope you will now know why this is still a very soft and good justice. Why? In 2005, 2,504 persons were admitted to asylum, of which 830 left the premises even before the application for asylum was submitted. Second, 1,674 asylum applications were accepted in 2005, which means 40% more than the year before. And the third most important information is why. In the 7 days following the application for asylum, the asylum home voluntarily left 1,394 asylum seekers, which is 80% of all applicants. This information clearly shows the purpose of the so-called asylum seekers. No seriousness, no conscience, so one year is just the right time when asylums will really show that asylum seekers need this right and will see for a year how good the Republic of Slovenia is to them, have the right or the possibility of employment under law. However, it is, of course, as we have said, a mockery from the Slovenians. But on my own skin, believe me, I know what it's like. I came a little earlier, not for the good of the morning, from the congregation because I was there saving the unemployed Slovenians and the homeless Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, then Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you for saying that again. Respectable present. I've heard from some of the Social Democracy several times that you're a man with a job creating self-image and existence. You cannot deny this, but you have not assured our citizens and citizens for 12 years, but you are here today explaining that we should provide this to some, as another LDS colleague called them, with parasites. And not the last time Mr. Gantar spoke about the brain trusts that are located in our asylum home. You know, there's no other place in our asylum than a bunch of unschooled Gypsies from Maribor. These are brain trusts. And even among the refugees who came to the Republic of Slovenia, we got a couple of "falsified" singers and maybe one more "falsified" director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. This, of course, was not a debate on Article 22 and the amendments tabled. Mr. Friend, try to follow this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u212	Absolutely. We are fighting over how and when work should be allowed to asylum seekers. What has been said for the second time by Mr Barovic can be upgraded with the information that 5,300 work permits for third-world countries were granted this year by the Republic of Slovenia, 600 more than last year. And one more thing I would like to stress very briefly is that I will leave my colleagues to say what has not yet been said. The Republic of Slovenia does not even have a register of so-called black workers who strongly promote unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia. Now, after one year, we allow asylum seekers to work. Nice, great! We will really have more demonstrations tomorrow and even less stable government tomorrow if this is accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I will dare to conclude the debate on this last article. And as you know, we will be deciding on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the next 22nd item of the agenda, which is likely to take place around half a quarter of an hour, so that you can inform your colleagues and colleagues in advance when the vote will take place. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO DETERMINATE THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AGRICULTURE LAW, PROPOSED IN A SHORT PROCEDURE. And the minister's on her way. At first, we expected to start with this point. I'm sorry, but then the debate just got heated. This is how I welcome the Minister with my associate, and I give you my word for the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act laying down procedures for the approval of applications for subsidies, the conditions and procedures for determining organisations for the control and certification and the establishment of certain records and the transfer of those records to administrative units. The rules of the European Union in the field of common agricultural policy lay down very precisely the procedures and controls to be carried out before a decision on the granting of funds is taken. Therefore, in several cases there is a derogation from the laws in the administrative procedure. The law therefore specifically regulates certain procedures and deadlines which constitute a departure from the applicable administrative procedure law. In determining the organisation for control or certification, it is essential to amend the procedure for reporting interested organisations, which has so far taken place on the basis of a call for tender. The proposed amendment is a simplification of procedures. The law establishes a new GErk record. This establishes a new identification system for land based on ground conditions. The use of the new system will be mandatory in all databases under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. GERK records are centrally maintained GIS system records. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food carries out the records and is managed by the administrative unit. It is also supplemented by the content of the GERK register of agricultural holdings, which is an integral part of it, by the obligation to register all operators of an agricultural holding who have at least 1 hectare of land in use, but others may also be entered if they have the interest and the need to do so. The management of the register of agricultural holdings is also transferred to administrative units, which is to be carried over within 1 year of the entry into force of this Act and GErk is within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act. A reduced procedure is proposed. The adoption is important because of the implementation of the solutions already for this year's year 2006. The government proposes that the law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and Mrs Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u216	Well, hello, all of you. We have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the agricultural law. The law is amended in particular in articles relating to subsidies in agriculture with a view to providing a legal basis for the acquisition of subsidies already this year. The law is bound by more than 120 European regulations in this area, while being enshrined in the Law on Administrative Procedures. In practice, no one or very few farmers knows when to expect a notification of an incomplete application, a decision on eligibility or payment of funds. The draft law now simplifies part of the procedures and lays down a time limit to remedy the shortcomings of the application, which shall be no later than three months after the submission of the application. You can decide how to call, now you can also use the phone if it's successful or not in writing. The date for the decision shall be set and so on. It makes sense for us to supplement the law with an amendment, which deals with beneficiaries to obtain funds from agricultural policy measures which, following the proposed amendment, should be an agricultural holding carrying out an agricultural activity on its own and on its own account. This means that they can apply for farm subsidies which actually process the land irrespective of ownership. Otherwise, the novelty also refers to the setting of the conditions and procedures of a specific control and certification organisation where interested organisations may at any time apply for the performance of this activity to the Ministry and obtain a decision in so far as they comply with the conditions laid down. Last year, we started using graphic units for the use of agricultural holdings called GERK, and we are establishing a new register based on a state of nature. GERK records are managed by the Ministry and managed by administrative units. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendments to the law in the expectation that this will resolve some of the dilemmas in the investment of subsidies and the eligibility of subsidies, as well as the faster and clearer resolution of these incomplete and unjustifiable applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you, too. I call on Mr Milenk Ziherl to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister and co-worker, nice greetings to all present in the hall. The Agriculture Act needs to be supplemented for several reasons: due to the specific procedures for the introduction of agricultural policy measures, there has been a discrepancy with the Law on Administrative Procedure of UPB1, the new proposal of the Agriculture Act provides for this in Article 3 with a specific regulation of the administrative procedure. In addition, the management of agricultural policy or agricultural policy measures requires a whole set of records to be updated, updated and added to a new record called GErk. In addition, conditions should be laid down for the establishment of a control and certification organisation. Well, in the case of the Administrative Procedure Act due to the specific procedures, when the invitation to tender is made to 63,000 applications, it is difficult for the Authority, that is, the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development of the Republic of Slovenia, and then to the Ministry at a second stage, if a complaint arises, to take into account Article 222 of the Administrative Procedure Act, which refers to the time limits of one to two months for the issue of the decision. Procedures are also such that they need to be checked on the ground, with 7.5% of all applications being issued on the surface and 11% of applications for animals in Slovenia. And it's hard to reconcile time here as well. In addition, Article 67 of the Administrative Procedure Act provides that the Authority shall, within five working days, submit an application to the applicant for a supplement to the application, which is again impossible for such a number of applications. Some funds are obtained on the basis of long-term contracts, namely the Sapard programme, and there are also procedures for checking, inspecting on the ground and in the event of an irregular application for refusal of funds. In addition, the law regulates a number of other matters, notably the recovery of funds, the inspection body and so on. In order to implement the agricultural policy measures, new records are needed, and all of this has also been addressed in the home labour body, where there was a lively debate, as we have also considered the comments of the legal services and the interested public, and we have adopted some amendments or would mention the most important articles, adding in Article 2, a new 11 point which says that the beneficiaries of the funds are those carrying out the agricultural activity on their own behalf and for their own account. With this we wanted the funds to come really to the one who is working the earth, and if, for example, someone is renting the land, then it is a matter of lease, who will receive the funds: either the one who is renting the land or the owner. We added an important Article 3d, which obliges the authority to issue a decision within three months instead of six, which greatly reduced or accelerated the procedure. It is also important to amend Article 5, which essentially refers to Article 66 of the original law, by depriving the Agency of the power to determine certain ambiguities or incorrect decisions. The whole group of articles regulating registers, namely the register of agricultural holdings, is then mentioned in Article 103a, which introduces GERC, the register of producers of agricultural crops or foodstuffs, and that is why we will support in the SDS the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the agricultural law. The law must be supported primarily in order to comply with European Union legislation, to supplement the administrative procedure law, to ensure specific administrative procedures and, in particular, to improve transparency, reduce procedures and improve the effectiveness of the payment of incentives to agricultural beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I invite Master Borut Saiovic to present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to ministers and coworkers and to all present in the Hall! We do not oppose changes in the law in the LDS. Practice and European legislation dictate the need for changes on the one hand, and many problems and complaints at the agency for agricultural markets and rural development, on the other hand, show us that payments do not go as well as they should, and that we have a problem here that needs to be addressed. The main perception of users is mainly the bureaucratic rigidity of the system and the fact that we are not trying to create a partnership to the extent that, with a little more luck, some European countries have succeeded. We also understand the urgency of the adoption of the law and consider it favourable, as positive changes will already be in place this year. It is unfortunate, however, that other important changes have not yet been implemented in this amendment of the law, such as the regulation of the right to farming, the regulation of the status of so-called master farms and the final definition of good agricultural and hygiene practices, as well as the regulation of the field of agricultural sales and, since Slovenia is one of the most forested countries in Europe, also the regulation of the area of the link between agriculture and forestry. It is also estimated that there are still insufficient changes in the administrative procedure, which, within legal options, could become easier and more friendly for users of subsidies. If we had been led by a positive motive to pay as much as possible, then in a number of dubious cases we would have decided on life and, in particular, on behalf of the farmer and the landscaper, not on behalf of the Slovenian or Brussels budget, which, of course, is endlessly undistributed and undistributed money. It is good for the law to reduce the time limit within which the Agency should be required to remedy its shortcomings in its unclear and incomplete roles. However, it removes a number of ambiguities that the payment of agricultural policy funds is justified by an agricultural holding or investor for which an agricultural activity on land for which an application is made is actually carried out on its own behalf and on its own account. This is a very important matter to stress. They used to say, land to farmers, but today you could say, farm subsidy money to farmers, not to modern-day farmers and capitalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The last one has the floor, Mr Matjaž Han, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Respectable from the Ministry! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have given special attention to the consideration of the amendment proposal and to the addition of the agricultural law to a new chapter which, in the area of direct incentives in agriculture, introduces specific rules for managing the administrative procedure. This is certainly important in particular because, following amendments to the law, farmers will at least know on what basis they will apply for aid and within what maximum time limits they may expect to be able to resolve their role. The reasons for the exceptional length of the deadlines for the resolution of the optional applications, as well as certain individual applications related to the rules of the European Union and the verification of the actual situation regarding the production of individual crops, we had to believe. Nevertheless, we have managed to shorten at least the time limit which imposes on the Authority how much time it has to require the applicant to complete the incomplete role. Whether, subject to amendments to the agricultural law, procedures and deadlines, the competent authority will also actually change its work so far, increase efficiency, ensure transparency and prevent arbitrary decision-making on direct incentives, and we will have a chance to see. We will certainly require Members and Members of the Party of the Social Democrats to report regularly, at least once a year, on the dynamics of the resolution of applications for direct incentives, and we will pay particular attention to the consistent compliance with the deadlines in which the competent authority is obliged to resolve the role of the individual proposer. Otherwise, despite the fact that the proposed amendments to the agricultural law introduce some essential conditions for greater transparency in the field of agricultural land, their use and agricultural processing, it considers that agricultural legislation from the amendment to the amendment complicates procedures, records and controls. Social Democrats have always advocated the view that farmers must have adequate education and as much knowledge as possible, but we cannot possibly pass the fact that the introduction of novelty in the field of records is not prepared in such a way as to make work easier for the farmer. On the contrary, bureaucrats are working from the farmer, and although with the help of the agricultural advisory service, they have to fill in literally on kilograms of forms and choose for piles of documents. Surely, given the better organisation of the body responsible for the award of direct incentives, the application of the rules of the general administrative procedure, the accelerated production of records of graphic units for the use of land and agricultural holdings, the updating of the register of agricultural holdings, the records of actual use, agricultural land and other grounds required by the Authority to verify the applicant's actual eligibility for a direct incentive, the beneficiary may spend significantly more of his time doing his basic work, which is, to produce an adequate amount of high-quality food. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for amendments to the Agriculture Act in the conviction and hope that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will implement it consistently and expeditiously in the interests and interests of farmers and agricultural economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the proposal of the present law. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes if you allow me to round up, i.e. at 4:30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:30 p.m. In the meantime, a good run if you can make it to lunch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u224	Dear Members! It's 15 and 30 minutes, the time we agreed to continue the session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please, however, if you all take your seats so that we can do this last task today without delay. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. Since I do not see any comments, I think that all the voting devices are working. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the State Prosecutor's Office Act by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We have before us an amendment to Article 24, the proposaler is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I'm sorry, Comrade Potts, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a little while longer, it would have happened again that I could not exercise my parliamentary right. I hope I'm just gonna do it now. First of all, it was disabled by Mr President, now that I was not seen by Mr Vice-President, but by the right time he noticed me. So let me say that I will vote in favour of this amendment because I am convinced that the proposed solutions in the law deviate from the principles of the rule of law. The laws must be specific; they must have clear content, especially when they determine the powers of the State authorities, and especially when they interfere with the exercise of fundamental human rights. In this case, it is the power of public prosecutors, state prosecutors, in particular the power conferred on the Attorney General in this regard; in particular in this regard, the powers which the Minister of Justice has in part on her proposal. And it will depend on those powers, on whom an individual matter will be judged, on how it will continue to flow and on how human rights will be realized. I know and am interested that our country is effective, that it is also an effective prosecution and justice, but not at the expense of abuse or the reduction of the rights enjoyed by all those involved in criminal proceedings. I think that this law does not guarantee that it is a step backwards in the direction of dividing the country into three branches of government and that I will therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Because I see you're not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 36. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Potrč?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I'll cut it short. I will not talk about the powers vested in the Special Prosecutor's Group because I said so in the amendment and I would like to be corrected and not repeat the same content in two minutes. However, in my definition and definition of the voice of colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group, I will refer to the part concerning the system of wages. It is an integral part of the whole reform of the public pay system that we have started. This system, I believe, leads to strengthening the executive branch and at the same time leads to a decrease in the reputation and salaries of supervisory functions, including parliament, and raises a major question about the system of salaries in the judiciary. If that were not the case, then I would probably not have read today the call from the judiciary and recommended to Members and Members that we do not adopt this law, because, otherwise, the administrative and Supreme Court may be in conflict, perhaps the Constitutional Court, but not the other options they have as representatives of the union, but I agree, it would probably not be appropriate for judges. If this is not enough for us to argue with everything we have talked about in the last two days about this law, then everyone will judge differently. It is for us in the parliamentary group to act by enacting a law against the third branch of power - it is a matter of complete justice, except for the constitutional court, which, in their opinion, has received an appropriate position - probably this is unwise conduct and no government could afford it. Our Group of Members does not want to be involved in such an act, so it will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you. In view of the fact that some other Members have applied for explanations of vote, I ask whether any of them would like to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs Bebler, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, the LDS House of Members will oppose the law. In our opening remarks, we explained why this marriage is unacceptable to us. In fact, it is unacceptable, in particular, because it is extending the powers of the specific group to a new level and the assessment of the offences that this group will be dealing with, it is entirely arbitrary to assign to the Attorney General. We think that this is very bad, that this is unacceptable and that it is harmful for the rule of law. That is why our parliamentary club, or MPs and LDS Members, will be opposed to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you. We are moving on to an explanation of the vote of Members and Members. I invite Ambassador Mir Petk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this law myself, in particular because of Article 10, which sets up a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime. This group of prosecutors will focus on the prosecution of economic crime, the crime of white collars, and, of course, corruption, the persecution of corruption. So far, the Special Prosecutor's Group has been ineffective. She acted quite disabled, and case-sharing depended on the head of the Attorney General and the political elite at the time. The government has sent this law into an emergency procedure to prevent difficult remedial consequences for the country. I think that all these changes have been in vain and have been complemented by the fact that, on the other hand, the President of the State, with pardons, has caused difficult remedial consequences for the country. In a way, a disease can happen to you, but we can't and the President of the country can't wipe out the rule of law. While therapeutic nihilism is a personal decision of each individual, legal nihilism is an attack on the rule of law. And that is why I will support this law myself, because this law is in some ways also an attempt to rebuild the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you. Since I no longer see the desire for explanations of vote, we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 27. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are going through or continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on judicial service, also following an urgent procedure. The National Assembly is moving on to the third reading of the bill. To be completed [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] I'm sorry. [[...]] We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 5 or 32. Someone wants to explain their voice. No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 46. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the second reading, and we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 30. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Industrial Property Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill within the framework of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading of the amended draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 4. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on asylum following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to Article 2, which is to decide on the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members to this Article. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. In doing so, I remind you that, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this article under point 2 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 5. Explanation of voice. Comrade Squeakle, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u233	Yes, very briefly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u234	Comrade Squeakle, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u235	On behalf of the Group of Members. We will support this amendment, we regret, of course, that the amendment under number 1 has not been adopted, but the amendment, as proposed under Article 5, and then I will call again at Article 6, of course, sets out more correctly what the police can and should not do. Above all, this amendment gives adequate protection to those seeking asylum, so, of course, Members of the ruling coalition, regardless of today's turbulent debate on the relationship of people seeking refuge in Slovenia, would ask that the amendment to Article 5 as proposed be supported. I'll ask you the same thing at Article 6. By deciding whether to follow the government blindly or to be able to be broad - minded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. (For the vote was 24.)(against 44.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The National Assembly is moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group's amendment to Article 6 at the same time reminding you that, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article becomes irrelevant. We're moving to the vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the same Article 6. Explanation of the vote on his own behalf, Comrade Cwickl, followed by colleague Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u237	On behalf of the LDS Member Club. As previously pointed out in the debate, it is now an opportunity for coalition Members to accept these amendments and thus end the dilemma on the discretionary rights of police officers when they come in contact with a potential asylum seeker. Above all, I believe that this amendment is good for the police alone and for the police because it tells them what they need to do, how to do it, and in fact prevents them from acting in some way as they think they are in certain specific circumstances. At the same time, this preserves the fact that the applicant has to go through some prior procedure, but this procedure is defined and the final decision on whether or not to fulfil these conditions for asylum is made by the appropriate authority. Therefore, we believe that this article is in the spirit of change and certainly needs to be supported because it defines more precisely the powers of the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u239	Because Mr. Gantar has told me everything I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 11. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 12 of the Social Democrats Group. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 15 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 18 of the Social Democrats Group. In doing so, I remind you that, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this article under point 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the same, which is Article 18. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 22. In doing so, I remind you that, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this article under point 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members to the same, i.e. Article 22. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law, and no amendments have been adopted for the second reading of the amended proposal, and no third reading of the amendments can be tabled. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Before voting, I ask, on behalf of the Group of Members, who wants to explain their vote? Comrade Gantar. Anyone else? Comrade Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u241	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We will not be able to support the LDS proposal in the Parliamentary Group. We offered a nice number of amendments, and another opposition party offered a nice number of amendments. The type of amendments could improve this text, remove certain doubts, and thus also fears, the intentions of the government and these ruling coalitions as to what the law really wants to do and achieve; none of this, except one amendment on the Committee, has been adopted. Even this amendment, which is supposed to define police procedures when it comes in contact with a potential applicant, has not been adopted, although I am sure it is also good for the police and for specific police and police officers who will assess it. Thus, in fact, as the level and way of dealing with potential applicants is reduced, we, of course, believe that this, too, is likely to reflect this as an assumption, deharmonised by the existing minimum regulation in the field of asylum law in Europe. In order to verify this, both the claim and whether such an arrangement is still in conformity with the Slovenian Constitution, we declare a constitutional complaint concerning this Article after the law has been adopted and enters into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you. Mag. Spending, on behalf of the Group of Members? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. We are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you. I will not support the draft law on amendments to the Asylum Act. In the legislative process, we have drawn attention to the fact that the changes to the law are lowering the level achieved in the present asylum law, and that is why we have not seen the real justification and sense of adopting this novel. We have also now tabled at this hearing eight amendments, which we expected for free, but we did not get support, despite the reasons, despite the fact that on our side both the justification of the legislative and legal service and the opinion of those who are familiar with the level of protection of human rights in the asylum process and refugees. None of this, I'm afraid, came across no understanding. Moreover, the level of debate that could be followed has shown that the definition of the concept of refugees and asylum is not very close to us, in addition to some other terms, and unfortunately we have not heard from the law's proponents, in addition to some other incorrect notices, in the public at least now such definitions as to tell us what a uniform procedure is and perhaps something else. Since neither the amendments to Articles 5 and 6 have been adopted, which are in fact the most problematic in the entire bill, it is entirely understandable that I will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you. Member Cwickl has applied to explain the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u245	I will not support this marriage alone. I will not support it in particular because, of course, the ruling coalition has not been able to support, according to my view, the most important amendment, the amendment to Article 6, which would prevent, as some Members have said today, the police from being a repressive body. Article 6 of the law clearly dictates to the police how it should work, and as the government has beautifully written down in its non-compliance with this amendment, it says that if a foreigner clearly needs protection, he is brought to an asylum where he submits his application. However, the fact that a foreigner really needs protection will in fact be noted by a police officer. A police officer will first come from prejudicing the service of the offence, that of course a foreigner entered the Republic of Slovenia illegally or that he was illegally staying in the Republic of Slovenia. Today, we have proposed a series of amendments, which, if a policeman should proceed, as you say in Article 6, in the light of the facts which we wanted to adopt in Article 5, at least have the possibility of appropriate legal advice. But that won't happen. The police will obviously act as a repressive body, so of course I will not support the law, because today we are not adopting a law amending the law on asylum, but how in Slovenia the right to asylum is prevented.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-06-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 24. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the agricultural law following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading of the amended draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Before we go to decision-making, I ask, who wants to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour and none in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day ahead.
