ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Zvonko Černač, Dr. Pavel Gantar, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvath, Ivan Yelen, mag. Janez Kramberger, Milan Petek, Alojz Posedel, mag. Majda Travel until 3 p.m., Maria Pozsonec, Villa Rezman, Dr. Mitja Slavinec and Matjaž Švagan. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the first item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the Ombudsman to the 22nd item, the representative of the Council of Justice to the 31st item of the agenda and the representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia to the 14th and 25th items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 10 November 2006. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Group of Social Democrats proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 16 November 2006. Would you like a word from the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The proposed law, which has also been coordinated with the social partners and within the framework of the Partnership for Development, has taken into account several proposals for improving the material, mainly regulates the issues of the participation of workers in the bodies of companies with a single management system, which was also provisionally regulated by the new Company Act 1 this year in its transitional provisions. In doing so, the proposal for a law contains the most urgent terminology of alignment with the new ZGD and the Labour Relations Act and compliance with the Offences Act. In connection with the regulation of the participation of workers in company bodies with a single management system, the proposed changes follow the solutions set out in Article 703 of the Company Act, which has been thoroughly addressed in this field and ultimately supported by the professional, academic and public at large. However, it is precisely the solutions of this Article of the ZGD that have been proposed for constitutional review, but the Constitutional Court has not yet issued a decision. The Government, which fully rejects the proposals of the initiator of the constitutional assessment of this Article of the ZGD, is of the opinion that it is appropriate and necessary to bear the issue of the participation of workers in the management of the Management Act and thus to relieve the Company Act. The proposals of the Social Democrats in one part significantly exceed the arrangements for the participation of workers in the bodies of society, as has already been coordinated and adopted at the time of the consideration of the Economic Companies Act, and part of the observations of the Social Democrats relate to the arrangements for the participation of employees in the management of institutions, with the Government stressing that this issue does not fall within this law, since the specificity and heterogeneousness of individual institutions requires the regulation of this area in specific or specific laws. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda should be kept at today's meeting of the National Assembly, as the work relating to the participation of workers in the bodies of a company with a single management system follows the solutions already adopted by the Company Act and, to a certain extent, it even builds up, and in the second part brings the most urgent alignment with the rest of the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you. Does the motioner want to step down? At the same time, I'm sorry I didn't offer you my word first. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is all right, at least now we have heard very strong arguments from the Government that our proposal to withdraw this agenda item, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the cooperation of workers, is not adopted. I would like to ask and suggest that you seriously consider this position of the Government and accept our proposal. In amending the Company Act in the transitional provisions, we have settled the issue of the participation of workers in the management of companies with a single system. Coordination has taken place, solutions have been adopted, as they have been, with some satisfaction and harmonisation, but not entirely, in line with the views, in particular the most organised Association of Workers Councils, of all 10, I think that 13 years of the implementation of workers' participation in business management are accompanied by this issue. They have international experience and want the content itself to be assured and to make progress. The constitutional dispute is ongoing, as the Secretary of State has said, and we do not know when it will be. Perhaps, however, it is pointless to accept in a live constitutional dispute the same content now in the system law, since this does not solve anything. The transitional provisions are in force and we will only achieve this by eventually re-adopting a constitutional dispute on the same subject. The constitutional dispute is rather an argument that we are not going to today's debate as opposed. As regards coordination with the Labour Relations Act and the Offences Act, it can wait for a month or two, and there is no force or necessity that we must do so today. With regard to coordination with the social partners, our proposal, which we have also communicated to the Minister of Labour, which we have asked to understand our proposal, I must admit that he did not have it and that we are hearing it today by the Secretary of State, arguing that things are formally ready and that he sees no reason why unnecessary procedures, particularly difficult coordination in the Economic and Social Council, which he does not particularly like, should be done. We believe that the content is important that the participation of workers in the management of one of the elements of the social state can make an important contribution not only to us, but also to the world where it is developed and developed in developed capitalist countries, to mutual understanding, to greater cooperation and to better success and results. It is therefore worth considering and finding the best possible solutions in this regard. We tabled our proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management a few months ago. At the time, he was one of the government's Crohn's arguments that the law was not comprehensive, in particular that it did not address the issue of workers' participation in the management of institutions and that the Government would do so in its entirety. Since then, half a year or half a year has passed, we have no information that the Government is preparing this in its entirety. She may be preparing, but she has not yet come up with the proposals. Now it would be possible to do so, to hear and see the concrete proposals the Government has to make, to see and hear the proposals made by the Associations of Workers' Councils, that employers and workers in the Economic Social Council also exchange proposals and come up with solutions that will modernise the current Council of Workers' Cooperation in Management, but not just physical transposition of the provisions of the Transitional Provisions of the Company Act in the Workers' Cooperation Act. This is unnecessary, we would like quality treatment and we ask, and we suggest that the National Assembly will allow us to do so, even at the next meeting, once concrete proposals can be made. Otherwise, we will not achieve anything, because we will continue with the content proposed under the procedures which our Rules of Procedure allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you. I am opening the application for presentation of the position of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Secretary of State, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia, we will not support the proposal of Social Democrats to withdraw this item from the agenda. We will not support it for this very reason because we have already dealt with such a law with similar content in this National Assembly twice, on the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, and each time there was a promise by the Government that the Government would come with a comprehensive solution. Of course, we can have a solution to this management or the participation of workers in the management of various aspects, and I think there will be plenty of room and time here in Parliament, given that the law will have a regular procedure, it is said, we will have a first hearing, and then we will be able to discuss here any different solutions as you advocate in your parliamentary group. Finally, I could say that we find this proposal of the Social Democrats somewhat insincere. Now that we have a government proposal in place, when this process of adoption is to begin in the National Assembly, you are somehow proposing that we wait now for what the Constitutional Court will say about the 703rd Article of the Law on Economic Companies. We know that we sometimes have to wait very, very long for a decision by the Constitutional Court, and it seems pointless for our Group of Members to wait a year or two for the Constitutional Court to make its decision on this article. If the Constitutional Court decides otherwise, it will then be necessary, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, to amend this law and, if not, the law will enter into force. I think it will be what the social partners want, because the Secretary of State has said that the law has been aligned with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. Does the representative wish to withdraw further explanation? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much. From what colleague Sok has said, I would like to clarify that the only precise fact is that the debate has been held twice, once on our proposal and once on the amendments and additions to the Company Act and that the Government has both promised and found that a comprehensive reform of the law is needed, but this is where it stopped. Unfortunately, nothing has been done from here on out and we do not believe and we are not sure when this will be done. As for the other two questions, I would like to say the following. The complete recast of the law is unfortunately not possible in the context of changes and additions to our rules of procedure. If it were possible, then we'd use this procedure that's in progress right now, and we know we can't. We can only talk about those articles where changes and additions are proposed. That's not enough. And second. Our proposal is not dishonest, on the contrary, it is completely honest and we recognize that new knowledge is coming. This new knowledge is, and we have not hidden it, a week ago in our Group of Members, representatives of the Association of Workers' Councils who, through our Group of Members and everyone else who is willing to listen to it and to participate in it, have presented the issues, problems and solutions that the participation of workers in the management of businesses brings and propose appropriate changes and amendments to the law. Whoever wants to be involved. But we are afraid that if this option does not exist this time - and that is also the truth, Mr Sok, we have said - then there is a very good chance that a constitutional dispute will also be triggered on this law. And let me say again that you will not be angry, it is a very important possibility that immediately after the adoption of the law that most will adopt, without giving any suggestions that we will re- table a new law in the parliamentary group on the cooperation of workers in the management of businesses, and instead of dealing with it now, you will have to organise again to inform the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs that he and the social partners will not negotiate again and that the Government will therefore reject the law because it is not comprehensive enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the motion to withdraw and brings us to a vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the Assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the first item on the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 20 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Below, the Minister for Education and Sport and the Minister for Culture will answer the parliamentary questions raised at the 21st meeting of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to their absence. Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler, who has submitted two questions, will ask the second question when the Members of Parliament have asked one question. Members shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and the Minister shall reply to questions within a maximum of 5 minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask a new or additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Transport Mag. Janez Bozič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister of Justice Dr. Lovro Šturm, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Mr Janez Drobnič, Minister for the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister without a Charter, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Dr Ivan Žagar from 18:00 on, Minister for Defence, Mr Karl Erjavec from 17:00 on. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I would ask you: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comply with the Law on the Roma Community, which was put into the procedure by the Slovenian National Party? Indeed, we are very aware of the serious problems that have been caused by recent events, which have in fact been the result of all of the continued work since 1992. I would like to ask you: When will the Government talk about the question of the authenticity of the Gypsies and take away those Lower Gypsies who moved in 1954 and 1956 together with the barracks of the Yugoslav People's Army, the status of autonomy granted to them by previous political preferences? I ask: By what time, say, will the Municipality of Novo Mesto pay gypsies to carry out driving examinations that they do peacefully while they are mostly illiterate? I recently took a driving test again and I can tell you that these documents are quite complicated and are not so easy to solve. I ask the President: Until when and how is it possible for Strojans to have direct and permanent contact with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as they are boasting themselves, and when will this be possible for other citizens? Is this the gypsy privilege? These people have about 178 criminal charges plus about 110 traffic violations, and nothing happens to them. I don't know what the police are doing and why we have, then in Slovenia, even the courts if these courts don't deal with a certain segment of people. I ask, then: How is it possible that the Municipality of Šentjernej is preparing legalization of black buildings on stolen lands by giving them free gypsy electricity, plumbing, sewage and everything else? How is it possible that we have two types of citizens, one common, those we pay taxes and those we stick to laws and Gypsies that are not valid? I also ask: When will these matters be settled by the police? There was another fight at the Maribor Bolshevik Fair on Sunday, 50 gypsies fighting, so nothing? In New Town, the gypsies attacked their own gypsy saint, beat him, and nothing. The man who's been wheeled over Ambrus' head is still in a coma and nothing. When will this mess end, and when will things be settled?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Before I give the floor to Mr President of the Government, please, Mr Jelinčič, the word Gypsy sounds offensive in this room, and I ask you to use titles such as in the cultural language of conversation, that is, Romi. Mr. President, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you for the question, in fact, there were many, very many, I could not answer those who flew either to different local communities or to the judiciary or to the judiciary, which I do not represent here, I take these questions as rhetorical. With regard to the law submitted by the Slovenian National Party to rescue or to regulate the status of Roma in Slovenia. I would say that it is relatively short and that the Government strongly doubts that two or three articles could address a rather complex problem. That is why, after 15 years of the adoption of the new Constitution, which requires a special law to resolve the Roma issue in Slovenia, this law has been drafted in this mandate and is very likely to complete the government procedure in the course of this week. The law was fully coordinated before these events took place in Ambrus, and some additional proposals were made by the Roma community. We are still coordinating these things, and I hope that coordination will be completed and that this law will be able to go on a procedural journey to the National Assembly on Thursday. This is an important legal basis, which now exists to a certain extent in individual sectoral laws and is generally lacking. Solving this issue in many segments hung something in the air between the congregations and the country. For some of the problems encountered in this regard, the municipality is underlying, and, on the other hand, the state does not have defined powers, we do not yet have the province, and in this respect, the normative basis for dealing with these issues was said to be somewhat short. In previous mandates, as a member of the opposition, I have often asked the government why it does not prepare this law. The answers were different, the fact is that the law will see the formal procedure in the National Assembly only in this mandate. He was prepared with great concern and that he would fill a certain void that actually existed here. But we would be overly optimistic if we believed that the law would solve problems in itself, especially some specific issues. We are happy here with all initiatives, including those of marriage, to solve these problems. Even more so, we would be pleased if one of those who calls for a well - meaning understanding of tolerance and so forth would be willing to do something in fact to resolve specific issues. Just broad speaking and kindness in general does not help anything, because it is necessary to find a specific location when things need to be resolved when it is necessary to ensure coexistence on the spot. Usually, it is the mayors of those parties who are otherwise full of tolerance and coexistence who are the ones who reject such locations most sharply. I hope that this will also change, that we will all be swept away at our own doorstep and that we will be able to resolve specific issues in an atmosphere that will contribute to the possibility of tolerance and co-existence on the spot, not just on paper or at assemblies. What the government can do to fill the normative void has been accelerated at this time. In the short term, you will have a comprehensive law on your hands, which will be further complemented in the course of the parliamentary or parliamentary debate. I hope that then, at least as far as this is concerned, the real basis for a permanent resolution of the Roma issue in Slovenia will be given and that this will allow the number of conflicts that have not started this year but are happening all the time, to begin to decline and that they will not end.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr President, we are not in favour of segregation in the Slovenian National Party, so we use the word Gypsies, because Gypsies are tribes divided into Sinte, Roma and three other groups. That's why we're not talking about one segment that's supposed to be settled, but we're asking for a complex segment of the gypsy tribe to be regulated. Now let's move on. Mr. President, you're talking about tolerance. Why is tolerance only on the part of our Slovenian citizens, not of those Gypsies, most of whom do not even have citizenship? On the other hand, they receive 80,000 tolls per month’s contributions and then receive an additional certificate from their doctor that they should receive another 36,000 toll per month because they have health problems with food and similar matters. And it is also an endless spread of gypsy settlements across Slovenia. Now we have gypsy settlements already in Medwater, and that's also going to be indigenous gypsies. I don't know how that's possible or ever since. Ljubljana - now in addition to those existing ones, the mayor invites them to come to Ljubljana. And it appears that Izola will also get a gypsy settlement, as I read in the newspapers. I don't know what we're gonna do about it. Will the whole of Slovenia be intertwined and shot with Gypsies? Therefore, I also ask: Will the current Government follow the steps of former Mr Drnovsk, or will it perhaps take into account, as its guide, even the thinking of Mr Hanžk, or will it be possible to refer to the directives of the European Commissioner who has come to Slovenia to work order while the pigs in Europe have enough to work over his head? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	Well, it is certain that all citizens of this country have the same rights before the law. Even with this Law on resolving the Roma issue, we will not make matters any different. However, this is an ethnic minority which, like other minorities in Slovenia, requires special care and special conditions due to social integration, as well as the possibility of developing their own culture. What I would like to stress as an answer to this complementary question is, for the first time, the fact that the problems we have in Slovenia, when it comes to Roma integration into society, are far from being the biggest problems in Europe. Although today we read newspaper articles across Europe, unfortunately mainly newspaper articles that were originally written in Slovenian and then translated into foreign languages and sent from here, we could consider that Slovenia, on the one hand, is introducing the euro as its own currency as the only member of the European Union, but on the other hand has a strong problem with ethnic issues, a huge conflict between the Roma population and the majority population. In a foreign newspaper, it even said that there are 2 million Roma in Slovenia because this problem has so spread to people across Europe that it is incomprehensible that such a picture can be created on the basis of the temporary relocation of a Roma family. This was caused by Slovenia, Slovenia is causing enormous damage and also smoking on the big fire of this topic, it is the first theme for three weeks, as if there were no other issues that need to be resolved, certainly does not work for Slovenia. If anyone thinks that this will harm the government, he must know that he is primarily harming the country and that it is absolutely necessary to be aware of it. However, this government will not deter it from seeking concrete answers to specific questions when it comes to the situation of the Roma community. In previous mandates, I regret to say that much has not been done here. Significant cash was provided, this was done, sometimes it had certain effects, some other partial measures were taken, but no system law was adopted. Of the 105 Roma settlements in Slovenia, 70 are illegal. In order to legalize, to make things right, there was little fighting done. And even when it comes to, as you've been told, criminal charges and so forth, it's very much in this segment. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There's a little bit going on that we can't blame the police for. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 2, I propose an extensive debate on this issue, because I feel that, given the writing of the press, which says that there are 2 million Roma or Gypsies in Slovenia, it might not be bad for everyone to declare themselves gypsies, they would have at least equality in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jelinčič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be put by Mrs Majda Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hear you're not even in foreign press after your reporting year, not just in your homework, but I have to renew it. We read in the New York Times, persecution of the Roma corrupts the image of Slovenia. We read in the Herald Tribune, moving the Roma family raises the issue of human rights. I do not mention Le Monde, I do not mention the Evening Paper, and so on, because I believe that such promotions have not long been experienced by Slovenia and the world has certainly seen us. Mr Janša, when you returned from abroad to your homeland, you stated, among other things, that the Government is seeking a more difficult location for the Strojan family due to the extreme politicisation and media attention. Guilty assembly, voice of civil society, internationalization of events, blaming the opposition, the previous government. Those who have criticized you are, as you say, ridiculous. The problem is, it hangs in the big choir. You refer to the words of the Ombudsman on the end of the rule of law as unreasonable and irresponsible. Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Mr Hammarberg, in your opinion, does not know all the facts. Mr President, you will probably agree that we have been monitoring the specific difficulties of specific people these days. The pressures of people, not only in Ambrus, but elsewhere, from Jesenic to Izola, have led citizens to take the right into their own hands. You yourself have said that it is high time for tolerance, for dialogue. True, but, Mr. President, I am interested in: Do you view your statements and your actions as patient, and do you set an example for all citizens and citizens by your conduct? First of all, how will you ensure respect for the constitutional order in the Republic of Slovenia in the light of the events of the past days, because in the case of members of the Roma family who have become refugees in their own country, this order has been unequivocally disrupted and damaged by both Roma and others? Constitutional rights are untouchable, they are sacred. Your government in this case has crashed into at least 9 articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So, Mr. Janša, your comment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you, too, for your comment. In view of the fact that everything revolves around a specific story, I would also like to reiterate here that this story did not begin in Ambrus in 2006 and that it did not begin with the temporary relocation of this Roma family. It started a long time ago, more than a decade ago, with illegal settlement in an area that does not meet any conditions for housing and housing. In this regard, legal proceedings were under way, even twice, the latter, after many complaints and complications, ended with a court decision in 2003, when the court ordered enforcement, is said to be a violation of the premises in this settlement. In 2003, it was not this government, and nothing happened in 2003. At that time, the rule of law was severely violated for the first time. If the Court's decision were respected, all these conflicts that had taken place would not have continued. Since 2003, more pieces of illegal weapons have been discovered in this settlement, and more than 100 criminal charges and various proposals for offences have been filed for crimes and offences committed against those or those who have resided in this settlement. None of this would have happened, none of this would have happened if the rule of law had worked and had not worked in 2003. And it happened just like it happened. Even in a situation where you get a situation where some situation, when the law doesn't work, pulls up and becomes a fact, some permanent state, is usually available with very little ideal solutions. And even in the case of Ambrus, when there was an escalation, and this escalation was not due to the fact that some villagers would have gathered together and turned angry at the Roma settlement, but because of the conflict that took place again, in which one of the villagers had practically lost his life, he was in critical condition and unfortunately the situation did not show any signs of improvement. Looking at just one part of the story and blaming someone, when you think he's impatient, it's unfair. I said very decisively when it came to starting, as you said, the right to take into their own hands, to start setting up barricades or that there have been instances of legitimacy by a person or persons who are absolutely not competent to do so. Slovenian police have taken action to clear up these matters. But to look at just one part of the story, it's also absolutely unfair here. With these criticisms, which the government has been listening to for more than three weeks since this event occurred, I have never heard a single concrete proposal on what would be a better way of doing things in that situation. I believe that a lot of people who happily spread the bad news about Slovenia around the world would probably like it better if something even more tragic happened so that they could speak even more harshly about what is happening in Slovenia. However, this is certainly not in the interest of the Slovenian state and I am sure not of the national assembly either. As far as the news you read is concerned, several reporters or correspondents of foreign press agencies are journalists of Slovenian media at the same time. Sometimes they're signed, you can read. And this news published by foreign agencies about this event is written first in Slovenian and then they go into the world. Many were very unilateral and actually caused a lot of problems. I am pleased that the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights has come to Slovenia, that he himself has seen that the painting is not black and white and that he has gone back with a much more objective picture of the situation than he has come to solve things. Once again, we will be very happy if one of those who is full of criticism and general good advice suggests a good location for the Strojan family. I expect this to happen in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you. Are you suggesting a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	I am not satisfied with the answer, so I am proposing an additional question or predicting the extension of the question as I have asked in the forecasts, but at the same time, Mr Janša, you have been ruling for two years and it will be difficult to find in the past all alibis for your own work or powerlessness. By the way, we're talking about the Constitution. And, Mr President, in one month in Slovenia we will mark the 15th anniversary of the adoption of the Supreme Law Act, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What does respect for the Constitution mean to you, at all, to your ministers? Your Minister, for example, is preparing actions directly against the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and you are represented in the National Assembly by Members who publicly explain that they are not covered by Article 55 of the Constitution. As we have heard in these days and read in the Fertility Strategy, women's abortions will be paid in all cases unless they are dangerous to their health. This is an unacceptable and unacceptable solution. With advice on what to say undergarments and about revealing and covering your skin, the country has begun to penetrate human intimacy — dangerous! Cessation of pregnancy will be possible only for the rich, women's difficulties will increase, health risks as well. And, Minister, I reject the answer that this is just a draft of the strategy. Ministers who write such scandals in the draft should have resigned earlier. And, Mr. Minister, what is your attitude toward the point of payment for abortion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	It's probably a mistake, and you thought Minister Drobnik. Unfortunately, he's not here. Mr President, there was no such question on the list, but if you want, you can answer it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	In fact, I do not see the link between these topics and the issue that has been announced and what has now been said in the end. Nor has the Government proposed any strategy for the National Assembly regarding the topic you discussed. By the time she suggests it, we'll be defending her. It's just a document that doesn't have the final form. As for the complementary question or the attempt to comment on the previous topic, I would say once again that I appeal to this, for the first time, to try to find concrete solutions to specific problems, and in this case we have a concrete problem, I have not heard any solution. Unfortunately, of the many also highly-professional people who had the highest positions in the country in the past ten years, when 70 illegal Roma settlements were created, we have not heard any proposal for a solution. I am also very disturbed by duality when it comes to the same political actors at national and local level. When it came to the decision of the Municipal Council of Ivančna Gorica not to allow this Roma family to return to the territory of the municipality, it was the loudest in the debate in this direction by the Liberal Democracy Council, and it was for all members of this council to vote in favour of such a decision. When rumors spread that this family was supposed to come to Grosuplje Municipality, the mayor of Liberal Democracy convened an extraordinary meeting of the municipal council, at which he wanted to take the decision not to allow this family to come to Grosuplje Municipality in any way. This is a strong gap between some principled advocacy for the tolerance and resolution of this issue at national level and the concrete conduct of the same party at local level, where the problem needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you. Are you suggesting a debate? Please, I would only ask you not to abuse this time to question new questions or new insinuations, because the Prime Minister will not be able to answer them. Be so correct and use procedural time for a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	As fundamental constitutional principles break down in the country, we need to seriously think about what is at least, to speak about them, so I propose that, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a discussion be held on your answer, President, to my question. The question of co-existence between the Roma and the majority population is not simple, I admit, and it is not from today. However, since the power of the current coalition, there has been a dramatic change in the form of disputes with Roma. The dispute itself escalates by questioning the existence of a rule of law. And, Mr Janez Janša, in June 2004 you said about Saturday's annex, difficult to say, quote: "If you visit, for example, a Roma settlement near Ambrus, you will see that it is at first sight a different culture or civilization, which does not mean that conflicts and conflicts are necessary. Because different cultures can live in cohabitation in the same environment if laws apply to all the same." You said that at the time, but you did not answer what has happened since, since that June 2004, when you said that, to this day, this coexistence has ceased and is not an example. And the answer to your question about proposals for weak fertility is not simple, and this answer is not only ours, but in all the history of Slovenia, it has not occurred to anyone to legislate, to pay for women's abortions, to make their health dependent on money and to give birth to children. This is a major problem, Mr Minister, even though it is still a matter of government, Mr President, even if it is not a proposal from a minister who has not yet been addressed by the government, but the thinking of reaching out in this way in Article 55 of the Constitution is, of course, very harmful. And in the debate it would also be very useful to know who spread those bad news about Slovenia abroad, who wrote in a foreign name articles that you say were written at home and signed from outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you. On the proposal by Mrs Shirca to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to her question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question to the Prime Minister, Mr Dusan Kumer, will be asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers! In recent weeks, we have been able to hear very favourable estimates of the economic situation in the country, the profits made and so on. In adopting tax legislation and the 2007 and 2008 budget, however, it ensured that no one is losing anything, but that we are all winning. But the data suggests that behind this fog of optimism is a picture of great contradictions, a picture of contrasts, you might say. According to the latest statistics, the gross average salary in Slovenia is 290 thousand tolars, guaranteed 55,000 tolars, minimum salary is 125 thousand tolars, thousands of Slovenian workers receive a salary lower than the minimum, more thousand workers are not regularly paid, etc. The lowest full-time pension is 107 thousand tolars and more than 400 thousand pensioners receive less than 150 thousand tolars a month. It's quite a number of people who will find it hard to say they're doing well. On the other hand, in the public sector and in the companies in which the majority owner of the country is located, there are hundreds of salaries that go beyond a million tolars. For example, RTV Director 1.8 million, Director of Lendava Health House 1.5 million, Assistant Director of the Securities Market Agency received 2.4 million tolars in September, Director of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants has over 2.2 million tolars, a similar salary is paid by the Director of the Insurance Office Triglav, while members of the opposition argue with the Government about the minimum wage, on the other hand, the official, the Secretary of State of the same Government receives a few million dollars per year for membership in the Porta Koper Supervisory Board, which is also owned by a majority of the country, and an additional 80 thousand dollars for each meeting. Because this is not enough to preside over the supervisory board of the Slovenian Railways and again collects 120 000 tolars for each session. He's not the only one. There's a lot of cases like this and privileged people. The government sends to Parliament laws that effectively reduce benefits to the most vulnerable categories of people. On the other hand, to the same ones mentioned above, give an additional 30 billion tax gifts on income. That's why, Mr President, I'm asking you: What are the concrete measures taken by the Government to eliminate these differences, this inequality before the law, as you have repeatedly stressed when you were in the opposition, which mainly reflects on the one hand the increase in social differences and on the other hand by protecting certain privileged groups?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	I'm sure he's holding something you've listed. The list could be extended, we also have the mayor of one of the Slovenian municipalities, who, I think, in four years of running one of the companies, once owned by the state, made 6,000 million, as it says or 6 billion. Many things have happened in the Slovenian transition, the capital gains have been untaxed for many years, and not under this government, and social differences have also emerged. At the moment, certainly, there are no major salaries or higher rewards in any major state-owned company than in the past, they have been reduced by the supervisory councils in many, sometimes not, and they are likely to do so in the future. However, in companies, the government does not have a direct possibility of regulating wages. And for those economic operators who earn their entire income on the market, it would also be unjustifiable to directly interfere with this relationship, which is regulated by the market. Even when it comes to awards in different supervisory councils, where it comes to supervisors, who are directly or indirectly named by the State, we are preparing a system that will somehow frame things so that things will not be cut down to be comparable. A very big step towards this, however, has been taken by the new Company Act, which limits membership in the Supervisory Councils from five to three. This was a very big step that made it impossible for things to be concentrated only in the hands of a handful of people, especially when it comes to the most important companies. Nevertheless, I must insist that some anomalies still exist. At the same time, I must also conclude that they are not now created, that they have not increased, that we have arranged things, and that we are still regulating them. And I think it would be very fair to see the whole picture and not just mention one part of the spectrum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. I've listed only a few companies where the government directly or directly tailors the fate of these companies. If that were not the case, then the state and government could give up the annual dividends they receive from these companies, which is over 10 billion tolars so as not to dissect further how this is going. And in these same companies and institutions there are also employees who have large salaries in the administration and large boards and prizes supervisors where people are employed and a few who have wages less than minimum wages. It can apply to Luka Koper, also the Institute of RTV Slovenia, not to mention. And it is even more unacceptable to share such high wages and so great rewards and meetings in such environments. I would only remind you of Slovenian railways. So again or before, I'll ask you again. It's true. They're on three supervisory boards after the GDD. But I have to say that now this force is profitable and far more profitable than it was when they could have been in five. They have a thousand euro flats per month of members of the Supervisory Boards and next to the meeting, not to mention presidents. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which have a fixed flat rate of EUR 18,000 per month. [[...]] I am talking about those economic operators where the government or the state is more than 50% owner and via Kad and Soda there is an additional co-owner. So once again, I think it's justified: What are you going to do to really put an end to these differences? I don't say overnight, you've been removing it for two years, I've been trying for quite some time now, and I hope that in due course you'll come with solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	I would hardly agree that this is a flat-rate arrangement, but this is flat-rate talk, because this government was the first Government to regulate the wage system of directors in the public sector. Since 1 March this has been true and there are virtually no anomalies here. The case mentioned above is only possible in practice when it comes to paying on-calls, which is dealt with separately and is not only significantly less than it was before, but the ratio is 1:100 from 1 March this year when the system of directors' salaries in the public sector is regulated. Even when it comes to the salaries of officials, this Government has settled matters, the National Assembly has adopted a decree, but stands in the Constitutional Court. If this decision were to be enforced, the state secretaries and ministers would also have a slightly lower salary. Me, too. We have proposed, I think we are the only Government that has proposed such a measure, I do not know any other in the history of Slovenia or in Europe. And the matter is not about the government or the majority in this House, but it is about freezing in the Constitutional Court. There is the largest company, which is predominantly state owned by Telekom. In this company, in this mandate, the new supervisory board has drastically reduced the prizes for supervisors, have fallen dramatically, and there are some such companies. I would also like to say that this Government, in line with the promise we made when I was still in the opposition, has also appointed representatives of the opposition to the two para-State funds and also to the majority of the largest state-owned enterprises. Several of the 10 representatives proposed by the opposition parties were appointed to the supervisory boards of the two parastatal funds and the largest state-owned enterprises. They receive the same rewards, I have not heard that any of them would ever give up any rewards or suggest a reduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you. Are you suggesting a discussion of the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thanks again for saying that. I propose, however, because I know that the Prime Minister is in trouble and others are dealing with it. For the first time, I deliberately bypassed the functional salaries, but I was talking about the supplements that individual officials, in my opinion, receive and destroy this system, which Minister Virant is trying to introduce through the decree, because I think it's only a little too much for me to get at regular monthly, good work fees in one supervisory committee and by the state of 5 to 6 million -- and I think it's only a little too much for myself in three committees. I have these lists here, and I therefore propose that we talk about this out loud in this National Assembly, that we all have one piece of information and that we all have this one piece of information before us. Around the decree - yes, it was adopted, but not yet in force. But for the institutions, and I've listed some institutions, but I don't think they're the only ones, and the agencies don't belong in the board of directors' salaries, but they belong in the first one. I counted 2.4 million in September, if that's not much for you, then I don't know what's big for you. In short, I propose that the National Assembly devotes one session to this issue and that we are single-handedly informed of the relevant data.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Kumar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The following question will be asked by the Prime Minister of the Government. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government! On the intentions of the administration Mutual for the merger of Adriatic Slovenian insurance companies and Mutual issues arise. The Health and Health Insurance Act, adopted in April 2006, provides that the conditions for possible status conversion of the Mutual to a Shareholder Society should be governed by a specific law. It is intended to establish the criteria, conditions and procedure for the possible transformation of the Mutual and define the rights of the insurers. The Management Board shall interpret the Mutual Merger Forecast as a status transformation to which the Health and Health Insurance Act does not apply. We don't think that's true. Our opinion is that the predicted merger of the Mutual with Adriatic Slovenia by content means a status transformation from the mutual insurance company to the share insurance company. In view of the above, the proposed merger may only take place after the law has been adopted, as decided by the Health and Health Insurance Act. According to the above, I'm asking. Dear Mr President of the Government: "Did the Government or the Insurance Supervisory Agency react to the intention of the Mutual and stop its follow-up procedures, as they cause additional, unnecessary costs to members and create confusion between members; and did the public inform the public?" In view of the economic weight of mutual societies around the world as a work of the so-called social economy, to which the European Union devotes much attention, I ask: "Does the Government, as is the case in the European Union, envisage organising a broader debate on the importance of mutual health insurance or the debate on mutual societies as a status form in general?"
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you for asking. The debate will certainly be, parliamentary and, of course, public when an appropriate law is proposed. As for the merger that we can all read about in the media and on this basis the question is also raised, I must say that the Government here does not have any original powers to make such or other decisions, according to the law, the Insurance Supervisory Agency is responsible for this. According to our information, the Agency has not yet received any proposal, so it has not been able to respond, the Agency does not respond to newspaper articles and only when it receives a concrete proposal or application or request will it be able to assess whether it is in accordance with the relevant legislation or not. In the newspapers it was possible to read anything, there is no point in commenting, I expect from the Agency that when, if it does, it will have an appropriate role to play in accordance with the law and protect the interests of the insured.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you. You want to complete the answer. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you. This concludes the question to the President of the Government. At the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, there are MPs. Majda Potrat and Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac and Srečko Friends asked questions of their letters to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, and to the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Since the ministers were not present, the MP and the MP requested an oral reply at the next meeting of the assembly, so I give the floor first to Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, to answer the question of Boštjan Zagorec on the reasons for the transfer of property rights to Vinarski Street 14 in Maribor from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Education and Sport. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much for the statement, Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members, thank you for the question to which it was partly answered at the previous meeting. It's probably a good idea to give the introduction a little bit of an explanation as to why it's going. As you know, last year the government agreed with Nadskofija Maribor, or our ministry, where we returned to the property of buildings with parcels in Urbanski, where, among other things, there is a study, or where our institution is now located - Agricultural School or Biotechnic School together with mechanization. And even at this time, there is a study going on at this location. We are paying rent and looking for the most rational and economical solution for the school system. Since the facility, which was also allocated to the Ministry of Education and Sport at this time, is in the immediate vicinity, of course we want to transfer this activity to this facility, and this facility is at the title Vinarska 14. It is a beautiful building built in the second half of the 19th century, where it was originally a vocational school for fruit and winemaking. So, this facility has once been taught for similar purposes and programs as we teach it today. Of course, we want to move our school to this facility because it lies in the immediate vicinity of the current location and in the immediate vicinity of all the plots that our school also uses, which means that it is an optimal and rational move. It is true, however, that we have encountered here a problem related to the operation of the Maribor Agricultural and Agriculture Institute, which in this facility, as you know, became our property when the Ministry of Culture transferred property to the Ministry of Education and Sport. In the late 1990s, this facility was declared a cultural monument, so it is owned by the State. It must be said that since then, the Agricultural and Economy Office has not had an orderly lease, so it uses property without an appropriate lease, and we, as the owner of it, must act as a good master. And that is why we have demanded this property in our management, especially because we want to move our agricultural school to this new location as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Dear Minister, you have given me some more answers than your colleague, the Minister of Culture, at the previous meeting, but some questions remain unresolved. When we talked about moving to the Central Agricultural School, which we know was a denationalisation issue, you claimed that the location in Maribor was arranged and that we could move it without any big problem. You also say that this building in Vinarski 14 has already been taught. I agree there's been a study, but it's been a while. And this building, after claiming the people who work in it, is said to be employees at the Maribor Agricultural and Economics Institute, is not suitable for teaching teaching because it is adapted to the functioning of the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute, which operates in this building, I think, since 1962. I believe that this building is adapted to something other than pedagogical activities. Although the Ministry of Culture transferred this to the Ministry of Education, as I heard in your reply at the time, it was only because the Ministry of Education had expressed some need for a new location for teaching activities. I also have before me the response of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is supposed to take care of the Maribor Agriculture and Agriculture Institute, and you probably have it too, but time does not allow me to read you the indents. It is also unclear to me whether the location of the teaching exercise is not appropriate, how your State Secretary may have voluntarily and without the participation of people in the agricultural institution due recently to the so-called educational needs of the staff. Today we have heard several times that 25 Gypsies have regular access to you, while 94 employees of the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Zagorec. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	I overheard that last one. Dear Member, I can only tell you that in the future, the Secretary of State will meet with the Minister of Agriculture to see how best to resolve the status or future of the Maribor Agricultural and Agriculture Institute; and I believe that we will find a suitable solution. Once again, this location, this building is suitable for the educational process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you. You want to propose a discussion on the answer. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac. I'm asking if anyone has a microphone on, see if Mr Zagorac can't turn it on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Dela, thank you. Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Of course, due to the insufficient response of both ministers, in accordance with Article 246(2), I would request an extended discussion on the response of ministers. There's supposed to be two classes in this building. Two classes, which I now claim are not a suitable location for teaching. The decision on the operation came last month. If they do not respect him, the people, employees and management of the Agricultural and Agriculture Office will be criminally responsible. And you say that only now will your secretary meet with the Ministry of Agriculture and try to find a new location. This meeting may take a year, may take a month, but may take six months. And where are these people supposed to go by then? We can't just throw them on the road. You agree, however, with all ministers, including all Members, that the work of the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute in Maribor is still important for the development of agriculture in Slovenia; and we simply cannot afford to throw these people on the road. And maybe another observation. You're saying that teaching in this building is possible. Then just tell me or you will have this option, if the government allows it, because I believe that the Members here do not have any will. How is it possible, when the decision on the operation came, not the first to come into this building to the employees of the Agricultural and Agriculture Institute of the representative of the Central Agricultural School in Maribor, but the first to enter this building and predict the operation and to look at the premises of this, I will say, historic buildings in the city of Maribor were high representatives of the Church. What's the connection here? A very interesting fact that has happened, and I believe that a few more answers are needed to convince us that it is only a teaching of two classes of the secondary agricultural school in Maribor. That is why I appeal to you that you can influence your Members to allow a debate and talk about it and pour yourself some pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	Well, Mr Zagorac, you've been asking new questions that the Minister unfortunately cannot answer, and we don't even know if they stand or not. I therefore ask Members and Members to stick to the procedural proposal and the time it is intended to do so. On the proposal by Mr Zagorec to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education and Sport to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Now again, I ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Beast, to answer the question of mags. Majda Potrat on the implementation of Article 71 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Allow me to summarise the issue referred to in Article 72 of the Education and Education Financing Act, which speaks in the third paragraph of the Act that confessional activity in schools and kindergartens is not permitted, except under certain conditions. It is also so in schools with concessions; it may be, where it does not interfere with regular learning or does not interfere with, and does not interrupt, and does not physically interfere with, the implementation of the programme. The concessionaires must also obtain status for their public service programme. As you know, confessional activity is defined as a religion or teaching with the aim of training for a particular religion. The teaching, where the curriculum is accepted by, say, a religious community or religious rituals are organised, according to local say - when it comes to mass or religious belief, in this case these processes are within the school space under certain conditions, referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 72. The fifth paragraph, however, deals with exceptions that may also occur within the school premises. These exceptions may be granted by the Director or by the Minister at the request of the Director or by a confessional activity, in particular a religious activity, and there are no other forms of confessional activity in this case. It is true that the law does not lay down precise criteria, and it is right that they should be, and we would be, and in the future we will stick to such decisions of the Law on Administrative Procedure. However, the practice so far is that we allowed exceptions when children had no opportunity because there were no places in the church when these spaces were quite remote, or were very bad, or perhaps more than 4 kilometers away if the road was dangerous; in short - they were somehow dominated by these arguments that justified the use of public school premises even for a believer. All these years, even before me, some such exceptions have been granted, if you will. In 2000–2001, 13 such schools were held, 2001–2002 11, 2002–2003 13, 2003–2004 23 again the following year 2004-2005 23 and last year 30 and this year’s school year 22. I think it's growing a little bit, but this year the number of cases like this has dropped a little bit. I think that in all these cases the reasons for the exemptions are justified, in particular the appropriateness of the conditions and the safe way to do so. It is true that in this case, when it comes to exceptions, teaching should by no means be disrupted by such activities, or by the teaching process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. In one part, you answered my questions, and I would ask if the schools and kindergartens in which this activity is taking place could also be provided in writing. I expected you to answer my question about such an exception, which is lawful and justified, as well as in the Constitutional Court's judgment, extended to schools with concessions where some things were not well arranged. I am aware of the Constitutional Court's decision, the law and I did not want to trouble this work, I was only interested in whether the criteria are uniform and whether the Ministry of Education and Sport nevertheless has a proper review of these things because, in at least one criterion you spoke of, this is distance, one could say that this is very relative, what we consider to be a valid reason or not. I would ask you now if you could tell me, "Are such exceptions timeless?" There's one more thing I'd like to hear the answer. 72. Article 72, which refers to the autonomy of school premises, only confessional activities shall be undertaken and the school authorities may also provide for something else to take place outside the school schedule, including in the domain at the end of the director. But I am curious: "Do such activities, if you know it, take place under the same conditions, or do confessional activities, for example, take place where they take place without the material participation of the Church, as they must pay - that is, the material costs of other representatives of civil society. I want to know what's going on with the Church?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you for saying so, and thank you for this additional question. It is probably difficult now and I do not know whether it is justified for all institutions to continue to lay down even material conditions for carrying out certain other activities. It is right to leave this to the autonomy of each institution individually, to also calculate the costs it may have with a lecture or with any extracurricular activity or with any activity related to its local environment, whatever. It would be very impossible to practically prescribe from one central city for all the activities carried out by school institutions, conditions and criteria. For this sensitive, rather sensitive question that you have asked, it is, of course, right to set the criteria. We will also, and this year we have already begun to take into account in decision making, in making decisions on this matter, we will also take into account, say, the Administrative Procedure Act, so that we will try to regulate this matter. However, for all other school activities that are highly diversified, there is probably no point in prescribing all the details, since it is simply not possible to include in the regulation all the diversity of school activities that the school faces and is carrying out together with external operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you. Now, please, Mr. Bevek, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, Mr President, I'm sorry, Dr. Tuckati. In the first round of questions of Members and Members, 16 of my colleagues and colleagues are expected to ask ministers, but only 3 of them will be able to get an answer first-hand, because today six ministers have apologized, two of them will leave later, so that virtually 13 Members and Members will have no opportunity to answer their questions, so I am procedurally proposing that this point be interrupted and continued Thursday after the government's meeting, so that ministers can be present in full. In addition, it is interesting that some key ministers are missing in relation to some of the current political issues, and it is already known in advance that the Monday afternoon deadline is foreseen for parliamentary questions and initiatives. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to follow my procedural proposal and put it to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Mr Bevk, with each Member, I will ask whether he wishes to ask the question of a Member of Parliament, despite the fact that the Minister addressed is not present, and he will tell whether he wants to or does not want to. Such a proposal would punish those ministers who are present so that we should come to the National Assembly again. I now ask the Minister for Culture, Mr Vask Simoniti, to answer the question of Mr Happy Friend's Member regarding the envisaged construction of the Kobilarn Lipica golf course. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To sum up the last question of the Member of the Friend, part of the question was when will the accession of the guest-tourism work of Lipica to the municipality of Séžan be made possible, because the country has been extremely poor in this area. And since the Leipzig Act is already in force, the second part of this question concerns the golf course itself. With regard to the accession of the Visitor-Tourist Part of Lipice to the Municipality of Sežana, it should be said that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Lipica Act, adopted by the National Assembly in July this year, on the implementation of economic activities in this protected area, provided that a cobalan as a public institution serving the public service of the rearing of Lipicaans and the management of the cultural monument of State importance may establish a special economic society, of course with the consent of the Government. At the same time, the law maintained the provision of the previous law to maintain state ownership of all immovable property in the protected area. This means that Kobilirna Lipica will itself prepare the documentation necessary for the establishment of such a company, with the consent of the Government logically. It also means that the economic and tourist work will not be able to join the municipality of Sežana, as the Member of Parliament said in his question. It is true, however, that one of the key tasks of such a new economy will also be to connect with the tourist environment, i.e. the economy in the Battle of Sejan, in Kras and in Postojna. Such guidance has already been established by the current programme of protection and development of Kobilarna Lipica, adopted in April this year, with the desire of course that there will be a new way of managing, which will be more effective in putting Lipica in the tourist centre of Slovenia. However, as regards golf, the question itself has not been precisely specified, but I assume that this relates to the constitutional initiatives of former employee Lipica and the Agrarian Community of Bazovica of Italy, which have launched an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kobilina Lipica. The Government has notified the Constitutional Court within the deadline and has therefore adopted an opinion on both constitutional initiatives. As we know, the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision to suspend part of one article, which is part 5 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kobilana Lipica, which means that the final decisions of the Constitutional Court, the spatial arrangements plan as part of the management plan, cannot be adopted in a simplified procedure. The Ministry of Culture will respect or respect the decision of the Constitutional Court as far as this detention is concerned and will also take into account the decision that the Constitutional Court hopes will be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Minister, you gave me a very flat-rate answer, I must say. In fact, I asked you that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cobalan Lipica, which was adopted on 14 July this year, also required the development of a programme for the protection and development of cobalancies, which was in fact adopted by the Government. And when you're talking about the complaint, it wasn't just one that two of them were filed with the Constitutional Court, one of them by a professional who you fired for allowing him to make an expert assessment. I would also like to know from this title: Who will pay the costs when the court judges him in favour, or will you go into your wallet and settle these costs for irresponsible conduct, or will the Director of the Public Service make up for these costs on his own because of the non-professional work involved in issuing the decision? Because we know that he was undeniably entitled to judge and judge on such a professional question as whether golf belongs to Lipico or not. And last time you told me about golf. We're not opponents of the golf course, just not in the protected area. And that's what I asked you on the question. Of course, even where the country is the owner, we cannot say that everything is going according to plan and that it is a model owner. Wherever the state owns, whether we look at the Sežana, the Sežana hospital, or Lipico, it's a disaster. And I asked you: When are you going to let the congregation find a concessionaire who will provide a suitable way to rebuild those real-socialist sculptures, concrete, hotel, replace this with indigenous karst hotels, not to say with a level that will also attract petitioners? And that's what the word was about when you weren't here. So again, I would like to ask you to answer me about this, but the law provides for this possibility. When this option will be given either to Get married or to an individual to do something in Lipica; and at the end of the day, you will also fulfill the promises of the horse academy that you can do so on my initiative. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. So, I can say that the worker was not forgiven by us, but by Kobalna Lipica and leadership; the Ministry of Culture has nothing to do with this. So, you said you weren't against golf, so you know that this constitutional initiative is what stopped any kind of intervention, construction intervention, if you want, in this room. But the point is that the golf course, the existing one, can be restored. In any event, the golf course in case it spreads to new fields will never be in a place where horses have ever grazed. As regards the horse academy, this is, of course, one of the projects of the Agenda for Protection and Development, and Kobilirn will make a clear effort to do so as soon as possible. This project has already been in the previous programme of protection and development, and no further than the rumors. Given that the new leadership is practical in saddle or that this Programme of Protection and Development was only adopted in April, of course this could not be done in itself in this short time period, but we anticipate that this horse academy will be implemented or set up in the next 6 months. The rest is that we have to wait for the Constitutional Court alone on the one hand. On the other hand, as I have already said, this is of course a fully protected area, everything will remain in the country's hands in the protected area and, of course, the country will also remain in the hands of this company, which will be established, and it will still be in control of everything. However, the question of these concessions is not logically envisaged. So, I think that an economic company that has the consent of the Government can cooperate with everyone else, but it is not envisaged that any concessionary benefits will occur, at least in this regard once.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Friend is probably asking for a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Lipica is a brand that the whole world knows, you know that better than I do. It is possible to compare it with all major brands, but in Lipica the Government is causing daily enormous economic damage because it does not allow it to operate normally; and you are also responsible in the Government for this Lipica. For this reason, I would ask you, Minister-designate, to just admit this guilt, and if not otherwise, we will be forced to discuss this in the National Assembly if this support is expressed by you. Pursuant to Article 246 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	Mr. Friend, don't state claims the Minister can't even answer that they don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	If you'll excuse me. In line with what I have said and in line with what is held to be always the daily economic damage, I request Article 246 to have a special debate on this and to discuss the responsibility of the Minister in the National Assembly. I believe that in his interpretation you will also be responsible for this, and sooner or later you will have to bear this part of the blame, because you have done absolutely nothing, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We have dealt with the backlog of answers to parliamentary questions; we are now moving on to the first round of questions from Members and Members. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Let me begin my question by quoting Article 55 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that "the decision on the birth of their children is free, the state provides opportunities for the realization of this freedom and creates conditions that allow parents to decide on the birth of their children." On the basis of this constitutional provision, each person can exercise his will to have children and how many and when they will have them. The State has committed itself to creating conditions that will allow for free decision-making in the appropriate areas of health, social security, housing and the like. In addition, the constitutional provision provides for the right of an individual to identify and treat reduced fertility, to prevent pregnancy through contraception and sterilisation measures and to women the right to artificial abortion, as set out in the Law on Health Measures in the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children. From the presented strategy for raising fertility in the Republic of Slovenia, proposed by Minister Drobnič, we were able to understand that this includes constitutionally controversial proposals, including an unheard proposal for the payment of abortion. It is thus envisaged that the competent authority would strengthen the standards of the medical commission dealing with proposed abortions. The State would cover the costs of abortion only if it is considered necessary for the health of the pregnancy by the medical commission, otherwise the termination of pregnancy is carried out at the expense of the pregnant woman. Thus, with the proposal of grave and unacceptable interference with the Constitution, women's rights are currently under way, the authorities take control of the most intimate decisions of women. In this regard, it should be added that Slovenia has significantly reduced the number of abortions in 25 years; and since 1982, when there were about 20,000, we can talk about the number of abortions last year, which is less than 6,000. Thus, Slovenia is one of the countries with low abortion and has already achieved the objectives of the European Office, the World Health Organisation, of reducing abortions. There is also no serious link between the higher birth rate and the restriction to abortion. Therefore, instead of introducing such constitutionally contested measures, the question arises why there are no further measures to reduce promiscuity, strengthen sexual education, advise on fertility management, access to contraception and similar measures. That is why, Minister Bručan, given that the exercise of the right to abortion is a matter of the health system, I ask you what your position is, given that you have not so far responded to those chapters in the strategy to increase fertility in the Republic of Slovenia, which affects the health sector, i.e. those services provided in basic health insurance. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much for this question, which I still think is premature. In preparing the draft and why we have not so far heard from us - because we are still in the stage of studying a strategy that has not even been adopted in the government or in the ministry. But also when preparing a draft strategy to raise the fertility of our ministry did not cooperate. We received the document from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the coordination and additions at the end of the previous week. We are still studying the document and, if necessary, will also obtain the opinion of competent professional associations and extended professional colleges on the content of the document and on the proposed measures, which have been taken within the competence of our Ministry. Therefore, at this point, all I can say is that, in principle, it is possible to agree with the basic objectives of the fertility strategy, namely to improve the situation for young families and families with multiple children, to establish a system to facilitate the coordination of family and professional life, to reduce mortality and to prevent abortions, to improve prevention for even better children's health, young people and parents, and to bring society back to basic values, which are life, family, children. These are certainly the objectives that we will follow from this strategy in the future. I believe, however, that the measures themselves to achieve these objectives need to be examined in depth. Of course, improvements are still possible, not yet, but are possible, even in some areas that we are doing very well, such as the continuous improvement of the level of health care for pregnant women and unborn children, as well as many other preventive activities. I believe that this strategy, which has now only been put into a debate, has not yet been decided by some in fact; inter-departmental coordination can be improved and upgraded and complemented in a qualitative way. The government, as the President and the Ministry of Health have said, will respect the legislation in force, and it is difficult in this situation to go into the various moral dilemmas that exist. The Constitution and legislation are clear and, for the time being, enable the situation as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer as well. Of course, I'm not happy with your answer. I specifically asked you what your position as Minister of Health is to the constitutional category, where we are talking about the free decision on the birth of children in the Republic of Slovenia. The strategy to increase the birth rate in the Republic of Slovenia, which has been published and already commented on by the Minister, has raised a lot of attention in both the professional and civil society. And that is why, Mr. Minister, I am surprised by your attitude towards this issue in this strategy, which falls within your purview. Because it would be very important for public opinion, for women, for rights, for the constitutional right to decide freely the birth of a child, which is very strongly linked in this strategy to the values in this society, what will be your position? Will you demand and propose amendments to the laws, which will also be linked to the amendment of the Constitution, in the direction indicated by Minister Drobnič? Once again, I say that, of course, Slovenia has made great strides in this regard, great improvements! And, of course, Mr Minister, it is surprising that you are not proposing in the area of prevention those measures which, I would say, reduce the number of abortions, i.e. artificial abortions, are reducing significantly more rapidly. Here I am dissatisfied with this answer, and I would ask you if, in addition to the answer, you can clearly present your position, the position supported in the Constitution, and how you will propose, by your authority as Minister, the regulation of this issue in this paper, represented by Mr Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much for the additional question. In any case, I replied that we were still studying things, we were still studying the document. My personal position is not that important, I represent the position of the Ministry, which I am also responsible for, and for which I have also presented to you in my introductory work. This strategy is changing a lot for the better, and here we are discussing some point that is certainly problematic at the moment. This is a point that speaks about the payment of abortions from the so-called social indication and, of course, this point cannot even be discussed here, because the legislation in force makes this impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Miran Potrč, I ask you, given the absence of the Minister of the Interior, will you still ask the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nevertheless, I will ask a question to give Mr Matthew the opportunity to be well prepared for the next meeting. This is because I, too, felt that some of the current events required the Minister's assessment of the security situation in the country. I believe that all the comments accompanying the events in recent weeks rightly raise the question of reducing general confidence in the rule of law and the state institutions. To warn that there is an increasing number of hate speech in the country, that there are more and more cases where individuals and organised groups are trying to take the right into their own hands. In short, it is not only the problems of classical crime, where we have a situation that is not progressing, but it is a new form that has so far not been witnessed to them on such a scale in a concentrated way. In particular, in this way or through these actions, the Slovenian police and the Minister of the Interior are placed in a difficult situation, which in these cases must act equally with all citizens and citizens. The question I am asked is whether the Ministry of the Interior, and through it, has the Government dealt with, or believes that it will be able to manage all these cases by the usual methods of action today? It is not just the cases in Ambrus and Ivančna gorica, it is not just the cases in Isola, it is not just the question of understanding the shootings in the Jesenicas, it is also about assessing whether the pressure is on the state authorities that have to decide on the elections. It's also a question of whether or not [[..]] [[End warning sign]] certain statements in the media, meaning, in fact, that electoral issues should be dealt with across the street rather than through state authorities. [[..]] Has this not already reached the extent to which the Government, as a whole, through the Ministry of the Interior, should form its own assessment? Let me mention that I was already in March, even though it was a completely narrower problem at the time. [[..]] [[End warning sign]] , in the light of the resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime, warned that we speak only in beautiful words and in general relations, but that we are not organised enough to [[..]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you. I'm still asking if you want an oral answer or a written one? Get up. Okay. The Minister of the Interior will give an oral reply at the next meeting. I ask Mr Petan: In spite of the absence of the Minister of Transport, will he ask the question? Bo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'll ask myself the question that I can get an answer at the next meeting. But I am asking the Minister of Transport, next with regard to railways. Rail passenger transport is becoming an increasingly important mode of transport in the world and also in the European Union, where it has been neglected for a long time, the same is true of Slovenia, of course. European countries invest large amounts in modernisation and Slovenia does the same. In the last period it is noted that passenger trains - especially older generations - are composites of Polish production, we know them under the name of "gobbles" - are entirely scratched with some graffiti, painted with black, gray, white color of some indistinguishable forms, and so on. These trains are running. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They look terrible. [[..]] I don't know who would want to drive with such a means of transport that is literally a fear, of course, it's not in line with the effort for a more friendly and more comfortable transport, because it's a look that rejects and does not attract. Recently, these, excuse me, funeral pictures also appeared on the new intertown Siemens trains, which are new and really comfortable, but these pictures also make these trains scary. This is an unacceptable destruction of new trains and the system of Slovenian railways itself. I ask the minister: "Who has allowed because all the trains are painted and they are not allowed to be painted behind some curve, maybe in half an hour in a dark place, because the railway composition can't take anywhere, and it can't be done overnight, so it takes days and days to take such a picture, and it's necessary, I don't know, 100 kilograms or a dozen kilograms of color, that it's possible to do so. I mean, who's gonna let that happen?" On the other hand, if someone uses so much work and energy and material: how much Slovenian railways have paid for such destruction of their property, ownership of Slovenian railways." For, after all, this was paid by the taxpayers, and so did we in the Assembly of State, who vouched for the railways, and therefore concerning us, Members of the Assembly of State. However, since Slovenian railways are also an important economic operator, there are employees according to the data I have, about 8 000 workers, it is also an act that threatens the social security of employees by dissuading passengers with such unreasonable interventions. I, of course, ask for an oral response to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you. The Minister of Transport will answer your question at the next meeting. Mrs Zalokar Orazem will ask the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is absent. Do you want to ask the question, however, because Minister A is present. [[...]] I'm sorry, Mr. Rupel, I missed you. Here you go, Mrs. Orzmova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Slovenia has received a new logo and slogan to serve our country's greater visibility. Unfortunately, we can see that opinions on this in the first week are very different. The fact is that almost the entire professional public is very critical and that most of the designers boycotted the competition after initial warnings. At the invitation of this competition, the Slovenian designers' association drew attention to an inadequate, non-professional and vague invitation to tender. At the same time, it also protested against the composition of the Commission, as it was unimaginable that the tendering committee involved most of the policy that the majority of the Government had, while only one representative of the profession, i.e. one representative of the designers, participated in the entire call for proposals. Of course, the sign and logo also receive a number of mocking and demeaning responses from the profession this week. In addition, there were clear warnings of a violation of the invitation to tender, since it was really unusual for the President of the Government to have a chosen slogan, which was later confirmed, if I say so, on the cap four days before the invitation to tender was completed when he was walking through Slovenian mountains. It is also true that the logo is not a logo, but the profession says that it is a sign that is particularly unusual, and it is a sign that combines three symbols within itself, which the profession says is actually funny, childish and unprofessional. There is also great embarrassment, as incompatibility is evident, for one of the selected performers presented the sign and the other the slogan. If I could just summarize some of the concerns of the profession. Prof. Ranko Novak, professor at the Academy of Fine Arts and Design, said that he would not pass his exam with such a product. Associations were at least in the professional field. [[End warning sign]] negative circles, both by Juret Apiah, who says this is an extremely unfortunate idea, and by Jernej Repovža, who says that the sign is empty, that the slogan is empty, that it is an abominable product, and that the invitation itself is an amalgamistic and, nicely said, unhygienic. That is why, ladies and gentlemen - the three of you - I call on you, not to ask that you cancel this competition and that, given all your concerns, [[End warning sign]] , to share with the Slovenian public, you choose in a more professional way a decent sign and logo that will represent Slovenia in the future and will be proud of tourism, entrepreneurship and the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you so much for asking. So, first of all, I would say that the competition for the selection of the logo was conducted on the basis of a public anonymous competition and this invitation was made very wide. This was the subject of some 350 proposals, which were proposed by very different people with different knowledge and many designers among them. The expert jury looked at all the ideal solutions that had come to the competition, and anonymity was fully assured. However, it is necessary to say about the expertise, after it has been shown who this expert is; this is a very well-established designer who has a whole range of references, so I think such flat-rate grades in the newspapers as they have appeared are somehow higher, in fact, that someone can do anything and what they can, that is, criminal. The man who made this logo was a man who worked for Mobitel, made an image of the Piranic salts, the Planet, the Monets, the Mobitel skater, worked for Krka, the Smelt, the Triglav Insurance Company, and so on, not to mention. So even a variety of things; and also among designers is extremely famous and recognized. As far as the expert committee is concerned, I don't think there's anything wrong with it, just as it was made up. There were ministers, as you mentioned, but there was also a designer on this committee, an internationally recognized industrial designer who has extraordinary experience in this and extremely many direct contacts with people who deal with similar things, I think a more competent person would be difficult to get; within this commission, an ethnologist was also recognized, so that he was a fan of expertise, a person would say, open, even a taster, if you want and, of course, also a toucher of these practical experiences, which were perfectly welcome. It makes sense that opinions are different. Criticism is never too great, there is no such thing as better, so of course there are always critical considerations. If someone boycotted this with a certain height, it seems to me that it is a great shame because each one of those who had a full of critical words to participate, so did many abroad, in other countries. In this regard, I believe that the correctness of the competition has been fully legally justified and I see no reasonable reason not to insist on the Commission's decision to take. Therefore, when I speak personally, I do not think about coming from my side or thinking of cancelling such a competition. So I feel that the logo is completely justified, the slogan is appropriate, and I see no reason to undo it in any way. There was also an extensive press conference, at which a broad explanation was presented, I think it is good and also appropriate. That would be my answer for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Or Mr. Rupel, you have 59 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I'd like to confirm what my colleague Simonita said. Nor do I intend to contest the decisions that have been taken so far, although I would like to point out at this point that the final decision has not yet been taken and will, as I understand, be on this sign and on this slogan of a speech still in the Government. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that not everyone will ever be satisfied with the decisions of such or any other commission, which can always be amended. While I believe that in principle symbols or symbols or things like heart, love, Triglav, lip leaves cannot spoil the image of Slovenia; on the contrary, I think they can fortify it, make a message about Slovenia friendly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. As I understand the answer of both members of the Commission, at least one is a declaration that he does not see any concerns. I hope that the government will still be slightly more subtle if it finally confirms this issue, because let me also point out that, for example, designer Marjan Peternoster said, "It was a low-value call and we also got a low-value product." I agree that no one will ever agree with everything, but it seems to me that these concerns this week have been so strong and so deplorable that this sign does not have a good passenger waiting for it, and above all there is a stain on the invitation and on that, Minister Simoniti, you have not said anything. There have been violations of the terms of the invitation to tender. It is unusual for the President of the Government, but if he is still so in love, it is four days before the conclusion of the invitation to tender to walk on Slovenian hills with the inscription "I feel love" and then precisely this slogan is chosen only a month and a half after the Slovenian slogan. I think that this is such an eclectic breach that the Government has to think about it, despite the fact that there will be no complete unity and that one representative of designers alone is not enough to say that the profession has had enough words. Finally, the company of Slovenian designers, an eminent society, boycotted the invitation to tender after long warning that the invitation to tender did not say that the Commission was not appropriate. Nowhere in the world are they sitting on the call boards of most politicians, and a single city is given to the profession. If we were to do so in the field of architecture, the profession would also resist as the design profession resisted. And to this sign and to this slogan we are doing or doing a bear service, and I am sure that no company will put this sign on its product and promote itself with it in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Rupel.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u93	I would like to say a few words to the Member States regarding the composition of the Commission. In this committee, they were very reputable and very successful, in the foreign economy. One representative of winemakers, who may be the most successful Slovenian winemaker, is a representative of a company that manufactures yachts that is extremely successful. I mean, it's almost paradoxical that you're reading to this committee that there were people in it who didn't know how to break in abroad. It is these people who have been on this committee who have come to know this breakthrough and have already proved themselves to be familiar with the penetration of the Slovenian product abroad. That is why I must say that I was very pleased when my colleagues invited me to this committee, although of course I was not always able to participate as intensively as I would have liked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you. Here you go, Dr. Simonita, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. So, honourable Member, we have compared all these signs with the 25 countries and it would be remarkable if the officers had published them. Perhaps it would also be a good initiative from the Information Office to publish everything to see what others are like - no one compares it. That would be very interesting. As to whether these are signs that no one will give them anywhere - I seriously doubt it. These applications were made for various products, if you like, and various public messages, where they belong to posters and so on. Now that the government's subtlety is hard to answer, it seems a little incorrect. "It was a tender of small value and we got a sign of low value" - the invitation was really small, but the one who gets this competition, you know, from this follows a lot of things, and that's what all the designers and those very well know. I think there were other causes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han, I ask you, please raise your hand a little earlier. [[...]] Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Zalokareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u97	Excuse me, Mr. President. I held my hand while the minister was answering, so it was enough time to look at me sometimes, even though I'm not very nice to you. I must say that I propose that we discuss this in Parliament. I think that the matter, given the many responses, is worth getting its place in this room too, but not so much about getting 90 new experts, because we are not here, I think that no one among us in our profession is a designer, but above all to look at whether the sign has a good passenger, has been accepted in the public, or is it appropriate, because there is a huge amount of energy and desire for this sign to be the right one to replace all the previous ones. But the fact is, apparently, many of the previous ones are even more in our minds than this. And the traveller, as I say, is not good. I think that is also what we are talking about in violation of the invitation to tender, which is what we are responsible for in this room. These violations were evident and are clear. It was lost, despite the low value of 3.5 million tolars for this invitation to tender. The consequences of later implementations or finalisations of this product and the applications of the two involved will be significantly more favourable. I must say that the Information Office has already been invited to present these products to others, but it has refused to do so. So I read in the media, this option was rejected, which added a bad light to the whole process. I believe that the content of this sign is so important for our visibility and for our position in the future in the world and, of course, also for these moves, that I think it is right for us to talk about it in Parliament and that the Government will only accept its possible final solution after this debate. Because, at this point - I think that Minister Rupel agrees with this too - it would be just a little more of this unity to achieve, than it is present at this moment both in a section where there was not actually any positive response - I have not seen any positive response, but I have here all the "clips" of the last week by the designers' profession, not a single positive response; this is evident. Of course, the public is more than divided, and this is not a good passenger for this decision. Of course, the politicians you participated in there, Minister Simoniti, took great responsibility where you decided, unfortunately, to re-politically. That's bad. This was a political definition, not an expert one, and this is what the professional public tells you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you. On the proposal of Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazm to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to her question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's votes. Mr Matjaž Han, will you ask a question despite the absence of the Minister of Transport? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u99	I'm asking nicely and then I'd like to have a oral response at the next session. I'm asking the well-respected minister. During the month of April this year, the Social Democrats warned the Government and the leadership of the Slovenian Railways about the disastrous operation of the Slovenian Railway Holding and many of the personnel, organisational irregularities within the Holding, which are mainly due to the fact that the Government never actually wanted to implement the referendum will of the electorate and electorate, expressed at the beginning of 2003. At our request, we also discussed the pressing problems of the Slovenian Railways on the Transport Committee, but our proposal was rejected by the Coalition to establish an extraordinary control over the operation of Holding. Today, I say that the coalition's move has been unjustifiable, as Slovenian railways are by no means able to swim out of red numbers and billions of losses, and on top of all, they have been operating without the first driver for more than a month. When I pointed out these problems with a question from Mr Janš, Prime Minister Janš, six months ago, he replied that the entire rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways would require up to €10 billion for the next 15 years, with the Government preparing a full analysis and a picture of the actual situation by the end of this year. Unfortunately, I must conclude that, so far, the Government has not submitted any remedial plans other than the guarantee law of 99.7 billion tolars. She is not prepared to talk to the opposition about this issue at all. The amendment to the Rail Transport Act, which significantly interferes with the way Slovenian Railways operate, will obviously be adopted following an emergency procedure, with all possible excuses as to how they are in a hurry to be adopted, although it is being prepared within a narrow circle of people for more than a year and has also been coordinated. In view of many pressing problems on Slovenian railways, Minister Bozič asks: How will the government respect the referendum will of people, expressed in January 2003, given that the amendment of the railway law wants to organise Slovenian railways as a single company? And: Can Mr Bozič ensure that, by adopting this novel, Slovenia does not violate the European legal order and therefore may be in proceedings before the European Commission or even the European Court of Justice? Finally: How would we assess the work of the Slovenian Railway Holding Administration and the Supervisory Board of Holding in the past two years? At the same time, I would like to ask him to provide me with information on the possible awards of members of the Management Board of the Slovenian Railways Holding and the meetings and awards of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you. The Minister of Transport will answer your question at the next regular meeting. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, are you going to ask questions despite the Minister's absence?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to ask the Minister of the Interior what the Government would do and, in this context, the Ministry of the Interior or the Police, where the law of the street, which fundamentally undermines the rule of law and also makes it difficult or difficult for the rule of law to function effectively. Well, since he's not here today, I'm sure he'll be able to answer that question in a month, and I'm sure another new question of this kind will join my list of questions. But it is interesting to look at this quietness here in the ministerial ranks every time. In foreign languages, silence is often referred to as a dead nature and is seen as a living or dead interest among ministers in answering parliamentary questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. The government certainly deserves to be reminded and play such a scandalous presence of ministers today in asking the questions sent. I fully agree with this, but unfortunately at this point we have no choice but to continue and then we can adopt a procedural proposal at the time of the vote tomorrow. Mr. Lucky Friend, since the Minister of Defense had to leave, I'm asking you whether you're going to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you to the distinguished minister, who is the only one who insists here, and I believe that there are no more questions to defend the government, the reputation of the government. When I have the floor, I would like to use a few words to remind Members of the National Assembly for a long time that the Government has an ignorant attitude towards the National Assembly, as well as individual ministers, which is also felt in the statements - and do not interrupt me as President. In fact, the fact is known - and now to the question - that it is in Slovenia as well as in Postojna alone, which I am giving for example, full of empty military apartments. At the same time, it is incomprehensible that soldiers and officers from Murska Sobota drive to Postojna to work in just two cars, five of them, and receive daily travel expenses of course all. And not only from there, but also from other parts of Slovenia they drive there. I ask the Minister of Defence a second time: Why is there such irresponsible behavior when we know that this ministry has taken over 8,107 apartments and that there are currently some 700 of them empty out there? Look, if we're looking at Work from 28.10.2006, 3,400 Slovenian families need apartments and young Slovenian families, and they can't reach them. We promised 400 million to participate in borrowing loans, only 113 were approved by the government. Why, then, such uncoordinated work within the government? Why, for example, would the Minister of Defence not give these apartments to Minister Petty Officer and come into the right hands, young families, like social housing? It is not only housing that falls under state ownership, but also facilities owned by the Ministry of Defence and housing issues at the Ministry of Interior are quite similar; individual employees have their own property and they rent their own apartments. I asked the Minister of the Interior in writing today: Why is such crime allowed within the property to be owned by the Republic of Slovenia? And why do we not have the kind of obedience that can help young families by means of an administrative solution? Where's the government's tenderness if it's already defending big families, births, and I don't know what? I would like an oral reply from the Minister on this subject so that I can also raise a question for him at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, despite the Minister's absence, would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll ask you a question, and at the next meeting, I'd like to ask the Minister for an answer. Hello, fellow Members! I have the following question for the Minister of Agriculture. In fact, in the framework of the parliamentary office and when I meet individuals elsewhere in Slovenia, I receive more and more initiatives and questions about the abolition of compulsory membership in the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, following the example of the Chamber of Commerce. The initiative comes not only from those who are compulsory members due to inherited a few acres of agricultural land, but also from those who actively engage in farming, forestry or fisheries. Let me start with those who are actively involved. Above all, they want responsible and effective work, which this Chamber does not provide on several segments of its work - according to their information - and as we have been monitoring on individual committees of the National Assembly and also here in this Chamber. All are aware of the problems with the fulfilment of applications for subsidies when agricultural anti-payment advisers fulfil their applications and are not responsible for the correctness of those applications. Of course, anyone who does, can sin, makes mistakes, but obvious mistakes, errors of negligence cannot be acceptable here. Other examples are well - known when farmers feel that it is somehow a closed organization. Above all, there are illogical cases where, on the basis of the existing 1999 law, there may be six persons from the same household of mandatory members, such as from one house. The question of compulsory membership also stems from the fact that very few members, around 12%, participate in the elections to the bodies of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Above all, the question of compulsory membership under the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber is also in this direction that a mandatory member becomes every owner with a cadastral income of 20,000, while with the new Income Law we have determined that all those who do not exceed 50,000 tolars are not liable to pay. First of all, I ask Minister Lukačič: When will the Ministry change the existing law? At the same time, I am also taking the initiative to abolish compulsory membership or to examine the conditions for compulsory entry into this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic is next. Even though the Minister of Defence is absent, would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Minister of Defence was present until 15 minutes before the question was raised and, in agreement with him, I reclassify the oral question into a written question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Even though there is no minister, will you ask the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u109	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u110	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! My question relates to the problem of rebuilding state roads with the envisaged construction of alternative or new state roads or roads. In particular, why is the eligibility of State resources for the reconstruction of state roads not approved after their transfer to the municipalities when they become local roads when replaced by other state roads? After the construction of new state-owned roads, which replace existing, state-owned and cross-border roads, it is much easier to rebuild them thoroughly without unpleasant and disruptive prisons and the redirection of transit, then even state transport. I have already submitted the question in writing more than six months ago now with the desire to receive a concrete answer to the oral question: What is the reason why this should not be approached in cases where new state roads are already planned to facilitate transport conditions in the light of the thorough renovations of old state roads that will be replaced by new ones on other routes? I believe that there are options in the budgetary mechanisms, the plans for development programmes, which should be provided through written agreements or contracts based on investment and project documentation. It must be the duty of the State to leave used and damaged roads in local communities restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Potrat, despite the Minister's absence, would you like to ask a question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to ask a question, and I expect the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting so that everyone will hear the answer to a question that is also related to the proposal for a fertility strategy, which also mentions fertility. It is true that foster care is linked to already born children, but it is surprising how little is being done in this strategy on child care and is mentioned in connection with adoption. And without this moment being substantively defined to the strategy as a whole, I would like to raise a question related to this very topic. A while ago, on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, we listened to a presentation of the views of the Power Society on foster care. At that time, we also heard some of the views of Minister Drobnik on the issue of fostering. At that time, the minister did not predict major changes and I believe that it was precisely that he did not predict major changes that encouraged representatives of the IOC society, in particular the president of this society, that he often spoke about fostering in public and other meetings with negative judgments on foster care and social workers and workers. This is why my question is related to this: How does the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs picture the level of fostering in Slovenia? To what analysis does he base his judgments on caring? How is the Ministry being accompanied by the implementation of fostering activities, in particular in view of the fact that the interests of children who for various reasons cannot live in their home families are protected? I also wonder, of course: does the Ministry intend to change the concept of fostering and therefore to amend the Law on the implementation of fostering activities? It appears from public presentations that there is no law on the implementation of fostering activity, but we have adopted it in the previous mandate at the 20th regular meeting in 2002. So these are the questions I am interested in with regard to foster care, and I expect the Minister to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk. Question sent to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. You want to ask a question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Due to the May bug in the Municipality of Idrija, we have been seeing a great deal of damage in agricultural plants since 2002, the most affected agricultural land in Zadlog, Idrija Log, Black Vrh and Godovic, and the phenomenon is spreading elsewhere in Slovenia. After two consecutive bug years in 2001 and 2004, next year we are looking at a new bug year, and the damage has already been very high. The Mayan beetles or their larvae literally devoured meadows; in 2005 alone, 800 hectares of grassland were destroyed. Some farmers in the affected area received more than 70% of livestock feed. In such a large population of the May bug, it is not yet yet expected to reduce naturally to a harmless level, so it is necessary to organise the suppression of cucumbers and help affected farms to maintain production and to enable survival. Farmers even think about selling their livestock because they no longer see the prospect of farming. Since 2007 will again be the third consecutive year in Idrija and Slovenia, I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Marija Lukačič: What will they do to ensure that all the relevant services react in a timely manner and that unacceptable delays in action will not occur again? In parallel to solving the bug problem, I ask Minister Lukačič: How will it encourage organic farming, which can also be an alternative to the now affected area, which is also a water catchment area for the Idrian and Vipav valley, due to the May bug? Despite 1700 ecometries in Slovenia, there is only a small amount of organic vegetables, fruits or cereals on the market. I ask the Minister: Does he think that this would also encourage children's kindergartens, schools and hospitals owned by the state and municipal authorities to have 30% of organic food on their menu, as is the case in some European Union countries? That's it. In October of this year, the deadline for applying for the call for reimbursement of the costs incurred by farmers for the suppression of the May bug has expired. As far as I know, these applications are worth about 50 million tolars, so there are still 50 million tolars available. By these and additional means, they could establish a systematic suppression of plant pests, where the state would directly finance the funds to suppress the May bug; for, as said now, it is only possible for damaged farmers to recover the costs subsequently. At the end of August, in a written answer to my question, I was told that the Ministry of Phytosanitary Services, Faculty and Chamber is working intensively on a system-wide solution to this problem, so I wonder: Is it yet in terms of solving this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Would you like an oral or written answer? An oral response. Thank you very much. We are finished with the first round of questions sent. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent; there is only one question sent to the Minister for Education and Sport, which will be addressed to Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister: How does the children of the Strojan family enjoy a fundamental constitutional right to education? Mr Minister, for those first three weeks, for which it was originally agreed that the Strojan family should remain in Postojna, as far as I know, nothing has been done to enable children from this family to attend school. We know that there are quite a few school children among family members. I suppose even a while before the situation in Ambrus escalated, these children did not attend classes. Since it is not yet clear where the family will be able to settle permanently, it is likely that children in this family will not be able to attend school for quite some time. As yesterday's President of the Commission's respective government and even more so as the Secretary of State, Mr. Minister, I would like to know: what do you say to all of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u118	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the question asked by the Member of Parliament. I answer as Minister for Education and Sport, and also as Chairman of the relevant commission, I don't know unless you have any more information, but I am entirely competent to answer your question. Surely we cannot say that nothing has been done in the case of these children of the Strojan family, especially the school-bound children. On the contrary, even during the so-called potato holidays, the employees of the Slovenian Institute of Education and their former teachers from the Zagradec Primary School, visited Postojna, talked to their parents, got acquainted with the circumstances and made a plan on how to teach. Thus this right you are talking about, the constitutional right to education, is certainly not violated for children. The fact is, there are five compulsory children, six children. The first class of the nine - year - old school is attended by one student, a second class student, a third class student, a fourth class student, and a fifth class student. We have ensured that every day there is a teaching, a teacher, this was also a media good presentation, visits them every day, alternately two teachers take care of their teaching every week, and evaluation by the Slovenian Institute of Education is also carried out by one of the institute's co-workers, a well-known specialist in the area of the integration of children, Roma children into the school system. I can say that teaching is conducted normally combined, that the teacher connects the first and second classes and the third and fourth classes, and some courses are carried out jointly, in particular in exercise and in education. On a regular basis each day, it is based on a study record, where the teacher is very accurate in each subject individually and in each student and every student makes a special analysis, the realization of the curriculum. Thus, the curriculum was made immediately at the beginning, immediately after the end of those short holidays, there is now a opposite evaluation of the educational work with the students mentioned above. I would like them to be included tomorrow, integrated in a regular education process at a school, and this will be possible as soon as we find a suitable permanent location for their stay. They're not alone. We take care of them. I think the last time on TV was beautifully shown how learning is done, the students of this family very much, how to say - they need certain social skills that they lack, and you can believe that our workers are doing their best. It is also important that experts who evaluate the whole process are also involved, and I hope that we will make up for this flaw, which, of course, is that they do not attend their former school, so that we can reduce it as much as possible. But the fact is that the same teacher as she had taught before is working with them and that the children are very happy. It is true that certain problems in concentration, particularly in certain subjects, which is also common for Roma children who have poorer competences, some also have language problems. However, for the time being, this stay in Postojna does not show any drastic deterioration or a drop in the quality of teaching. On the contrary, since they want to learn as much as possible [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] opinions one option at a time. [[...]] The fact is that this way of learning is not a permanent form or durable solution either, and we would like to integrate them into a regular school as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank the Minister very much for that answer. I must say, he is more optimistic than I expected, and I must admit that I am pleased with such an answer. Especially since we have read the Amnesty International report these days, which speaks quite critically about teaching and how to organise teaching for Roma children in Slovenia. And also those so-called Ivy case, which, Mr Minister, you claim has already produced positive effects, the Amnesty International report directly states that this is not a suitable model and that it is essentially segregation. And even if it happens or happens that this Strojan family will still be in Postojna for a long time, it means that these children will not want to be segregated and that it is very difficult then to expect that, based on and through segregation, these children will later have the right opportunity to integrate into the wider social community. I am also not so sure that everything you have stated can in fact be considered a normal schooling which, under the Constitution and our legislation and even under international acts, all children should be given. And here we see that this situation will also be drawn to an uncertain future. Certainly, however, from the reply of Minister Matei to Ambrušan on 28 October, who said that this Strojan family would never return to where it was from again means that this will certainly be an important problem for these school-binding children of the Strojan family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u122	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Thank you also for the additional clarification or question concerning the Amnesty International report, which has been carried out specifically in the field of education and training in the case of Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The report isn't as catastrophic as it would appear from your presentation. It relies on some of the findings - I have, I read it on Wednesday evening - also from 2001, 2003, some more modern in the title of the Peace Institute. It would be nice if author Fischer also took a look at the evaluation report prepared by the Slovenian Institute for Education and would see in the case of Irslin that it was not a segregation. Finally, only Amnesty International talks about segregation on this particular model. The fact is that this report has come about, as has been the case, we respect it, we respect it, it has a series of directions, such as we have prepared ourselves in the plan and which we are also implementing. This is how we take any such warning seriously in our school system, and we also try to take their comments seriously and to address their shortcomings. Finally, the purpose of all such messages is to improve the situation, particularly in the field of the protection of human rights and freedoms, and in particular in primary education for children. However, the situation is not alarming and there is no way that we can talk about segregation, we have already said this, and other representatives of human rights and freedoms, including from the Council of Europe, have also told us this, especially in the case of Irslin. It is true that before 2004, we had several cases of clean segregation, special departments, but we also solved those cases through the "step by step" project. So we can say that Slovenia is making quite a number of efforts, including research, to make this integration process as effective as possible. The fact is that sometimes we imagine integration quite simply, and this is moving children into classes. But it's much more complex. Certain conditions are required for normal participation in the learning process and, in particular, this knowledge of knowledge and substance. There is certainly no case of segregation based on racial or ethnic origin in the ivy case. Finally, 40% of Roma children participate in a better group, which means that this is the first evidence that rejects the thesis on segregation. We will, in this case, in a capital case, still say so. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-20-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the President of the Government and ministers for the answers given, which concludes this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 22nd regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Goodbye.
