ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Feri Horvat, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Jožef Školč and Marjetka Uhan. Is it wrong, Mrs. Kucler? Will you be there? Okay. Thank you. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - another defense proposal for a company law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you are, Mr. Zinrajh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The new Social Act will also provide us with a legal framework in Slovenia for societies that will apply the principles that apply in regulating this area in the modern world. The regulation will be comparable to the status and status of societies of other European countries and will also be in line with the principles recommended by the Council of Europe in regulating the field of NGOs with its documents. On the one hand, the law will further enforce the constitutional principle of freedom of association and, with some facilitations and simplifications, will facilitate the development of the sector, while also introducing mechanisms to ensure compliance with its provisions, prevent abuses and ensure greater legal certainty in the business of societies. The law will also allow the implementation of the Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level, which is currently being prepared for signature. It will ensure the proper implementation of the Society Offences Act and ensure that the required societies are implemented in order to remove certain restrictions, the constitutional right to merge, as well as those requiring the establishment of the necessary order in the field of the functioning of societies. The law in the proposal will remove obstacles to the establishment of companies for legal persons, which is special news, and for foreigners, and lay down legal frameworks for the operation of foreign societies in the Republic of Slovenia. The social situation will clearly define civil relations and highlight the importance of overseeing membership over the functioning of bodies in society. The proposal also introduces a certain simplification of the registration of the company or the change of the address of the seat and a clearer definition of the registration procedure itself. Furthermore, the law will significantly extend the scope of those societies which can manage their accounting in a simpler way and remove certain restrictions on the availability of the company’s assets at the time of its termination. The law will ensure that the conditions for the exercise of the status of society in the public interest are levelled, irrespective of the area in which it is established, remove legal gaps and confusion in this area and determine the immediate impact of the status acquisition. The proposed law will introduce the material liability of the persons of the company for the intentional injury of the creditors of the company, which the responsible persons would do by transferring the property of the company to themselves or another person or to another person, in order to create a new society, which unfortunately also happens in practice. The same responsibility will be given if the persons responsible for failing to pay the creditors prevent the company's revenue from being transferred to the company. The responsible persons of society will only respond to the amount of damage they will cause to society and, of course, to creditors by their intentional conduct. The same will be true of those who would benefit from such practices. The law seeks to prevent the gross abuse of social organisation and the principles of the fair operation of societies by such a provision. I reiterate that the law does not thus impose the responsibility of the responsible persons for the successful operation of the company and its possible insolvency of payment. The law will ensure the supervision of the enforcement of its provisions and allow for the detection and punishment of offences. It will determine the possibility of a court banning the operation of a society for the worst violations of the Constitution and laws. It will also establish an institution for the cessation of society under the law itself, for the repetition of the more serious offences established by law, which show that society does not act as a non-profit association. The law will establish a legal basis for the management of the register of societies as a centralised computerised database. However, the register data will be supplemented by certain personal data of the representative. For the register of associations, the law establishes the principle of trust in register data, as it provides for the protection of the rights of trusted third parties who rely on register data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, fellow Members and fellow Members, as well as the representatives of the ministry and others who accompany us at today's meeting. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at the first meeting of the 19th regular session, considered a proposal for a social law; otherwise, before its second hearing on the working body, the Committee also organised a public presentation of the opinions, with a view to clarifying the individual open issues raised on the proposal for a law. On the Committee, the proposer pointed out in the introduction of the bill that the basic objective of the proposed law is to establish in Slovenia such a legal regime of this area of societies that will be more comparable to modern European regulations and where the principles and guidelines recommended by the Council of Europe to promote the development and strengthening of NGOs in Europe will also be established. As usual, a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. This stressed that the service had examined the proposal for a law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal system and made specific comments to the individual article in its written opinion. Most of these comments were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and therefore the representative of the legislative and legal service did not have any further comments on the draft law. He also gave an opinion on the draft law to the representative of the State Council, from which it follows that they support a more appropriate legal regime in this area and that, in the following opinion, the representative also made comments and opinions on individual proposed solutions, as well as some warnings and comments. In the debate, the majority of the members and members of the Committee agreed and expressed support for the bill, but will also agree that the legislative text can be improved in some of the provisions in the direction of some of the proposed amendments. The amendments adopted were thus mostly explanatory and editorial in nature and were in particular a clearer record of the legal text itself and, in some cases, a terminological alignment with other applicable rules and addressed those shortcomings that were also pointed out by the legislative and legal service. Some other amendments were also tabled, which were then developed, in particular with regard to Article 1 of the bill. The question was raised here and, in this regard, the amendment whether the non-profit function and the activity of society was sufficiently clearly defined, with the majority of the members of the Committee considering and agreeing with the position of the proposer of the bill as well as the legislative and legal service which considered that the purpose of the proposed amendment was already covered in the text of the bill. Furthermore, in relation to Article 6, which regulates liability for the legitimate conduct of the company, the way in which the representative of the company is responsible. Some felt that the transfer of responsibility to the responsible persons of society could mean that no one would want to take the lead anymore, but the opposite majority felt that the solutions advocated by the proposer were appropriate and also sufficiently wide enough, as they allowed companies to take this responsibility for the legality of society in their basic acts. With regard to Article 8, under which companies will be able to establish business-qualified natural persons, as well as legal persons, the objective pursued by the proposer in this regard was, at the end, that the possibility of setting up companies is also by business entities, but with a supplement whereby companies cannot set up a company which has a specific activity as its activity on the basis of the act. The Committee has adopted amendments to certain articles and, in the end, has also supported the proposal for a law and has also proposed it for adoption by this assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 13th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24.5.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. The LDS Club proposes to delete the first paragraph of Article 6. The current proposal provides that the company's legality is also the responsibility of the company's representative with all its assets and that the basic act may also be laid down by another person or several persons responsible for the legality of the company's business areas. We're talking about this with determination. Indeed, even now, creditors can obtain the payment of their claims directly from the responsible persons of a society who, on purpose or for the benefit of others, have reduced the company’s assets or prevented an increase in assets, even though they knew that the company would not be able to meet its obligations to third parties. The question is also raised why a stricter responsibility is being established for representatives of society than is envisaged by the Company Act for managers d.o.o. or the same liability as that of s.p. and d.o.b. The proposal for a law does not give members the possibility of influencing the legality of action, but at the same time bears the responsibility for the company's obligations to the responsible persons of society, which could mean that no one would want to take over the leading functions. The mechanical adoption of solutions from economic law is unacceptable in our view. We therefore propose that you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u7	Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. In some ways, we continue to insist in the Group of Social Democrats that Article 6 remains the same as that the first paragraph of Article 6 which speaks of entities in society responsible for legality is extended. After being recorded, this society as a whole or their representative, if an internal act, that is a statute or any other act, does not otherwise provide for. In view of the fact that each society has, in addition to individual bodies or functions, such as the President, also the collective body which essentially leads and takes all decisions of the society, that is, the committee or the Presidency, we propose that it be legally determined that this body which runs the society is also responsible for legality. The reason is that the vast majority of societies operate on the basis of volunteerism, so also the president of society is a volunteer, which is why it is somehow difficult to assume full responsibility for legality. As I said before, most decisions in society are taken by this body or by this Presidency or by this administrative body of society. It's not about a lot of people, it's about 5 to 7 people, and it's right that everyone has somehow distributed this responsibility. This article will be able to be written to a number of people in the middle, and these environments are not limited, namely, for 20,000 entities, to remove the dilemma or the problem that has already been pointed out today that, if an article is thus written and so remains, in particular the second part of the article, which also carries sanctions, there will, of course, be a problem in assuming these responsible functions, if that is the case with only one person. We therefore once again propose that the proposer listen to this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u9	Mr. Rudolf Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must admit that when I first read this bill, I thought very much like both of my previous colleagues. On the other hand, I was aware of the need to do something in this area. I am also an official of one of the societies, which is not the least, which may have a couple hundred thousand tolars of revenue, but much more, because some societies in the past have done such damage to others, especially in the sports field, when it comes to the fact that such a situation has just been yelled at because something has to be changed. If a society ceases to work because they have put some 100 million away and no one knows where, it is not necessary for all of us in Slovenia working in such an area - but society is almost 20,000 - to be condemned for doing so by some. Such societies, which have saved so many millions, are not many, but enough is enough, I will not list them, because in the end it is not my problem, because they will solve themselves, but we all bear the consequences. When we discussed this, we found that it is clearly stated here that this person is responding with all of his assets, if he is in his or her interests etc., acquired funds or, if he has transferred to another organisation. Then, of course, we are a little more at peace, and I think that such a dictatorship is normal, that it is understandable, and that I will probably still be at the head of this society, and others will probably come. But something is certain, and it is also, I think, one of the intentions of this new law, that all those who, in one way or another, will go into this area and accept a function, will have to think carefully, examine where they are going, on what terrain they are going to land, or in what environment they are going to land, not to give their name, but the others will do as they please. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Then, of course, he'll answer himself. Or even if others do benefit, someone who is not well - convinced will have great consequences. I personally support such a dictatorship and if we succeed in making little order, not much, little order in this area with societies - I do not say that all societies are problematic. I would say that out of these 19,000 and some of them, 18,990 are probably fine, they're doing fairly, they don't have any bad intentions. But if there's one or two or three in between, but I know about that many, say, on the fingers of both hands, which do damage, and, forgive the expression, they beat money, and they make fun of everyone, they end society, they name new ones, they work on, if necessary, they pass from the lower league, but the rest is forgotten, then we did the right thing. However, if this process of regulation begins with this law, we have also done our part and will probably be significantly better in time. Of course, I say this in terms of links with other articles, especially financial transactions, with responsibility, with accounting, which is different for different societies. So I think that an article like this is basically appropriate. I support such solutions, and I will not support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u11	Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you. In my opinion, I have already tried to point out in my opinion that I feel unfair to those who listen to us in order to have a voice, a threat beyond what this article will do to the presidents of societies. We can do this by misinterpreting this article because we can needlessly arouse a fear that should not even be. Those who assume their office as president of the society in the basic motive for doing this function honestly will have no problem with this article. Not only that, but also that mentioned, the presidents are mostly volunteers. They may not have been trained in all areas, but this article also had that in mind. It is written that it is only responsible in case of intentional conduct. This means that he had to be aware of the intention to do something contrary to the law, contrary to the interests of society and indirectly with the interests of all members of society. It's not about someone, I'd say, unconscious or unconscious negligence that could occur in a particular course of action, so it's about contrived behavior. This responsibility will be determined, and the level of intent itself is much higher, so that it can really be determined whether a matter was done only by mistake or whether there were other purposes here. The law clearly states in the draft article that sanctions will be imposed if the responsible persons reduce the company’s assets or by shifting the business or financial flows to another existing or new legal entity for their benefit or for the benefit of others, and so on. As I pointed out in the introduction, I see this article primarily for the benefit of all members of society, all those who cooperate with society, especially in those cases which are exceptional, but it is also necessary to say that they are possible where someone takes over and acts irresponsibly on it and, above all, by means of deliberate conduct, they try to harm society. Therefore, I think that these amendments are somehow inappropriate and I think the objective pursued by the proposed provision is appropriate and therefore I cannot support the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u13	Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye! Of course, I would very much agree with my colleague Petan, who says that out of nearly 20,000 societies, most societies operate this way and have acted that way, and it is also in the future able to conclude that it will work in such a way that there will be no problems. And then the question is whether what we're talking about today will be of interest to take over individual functions in these societies, or whether we're going to put up some kind of message saying that some special regime will be set up for these functions today. I cannot agree at all that today, because I would be very surprised that today, in the legal order of Slovenia, it is not possible for someone who has committed some activity in some society to initiate certain activities of determining responsibility. If that were the case, then society would be a real paradise for us to avoid our guileful actions of any responsibility. I say that this is not the case and that there is legislation where it is possible to act in an attempt to do so and thus take responsibility. But what I'm talking about is that we have almost 20,000 societies in which we combine with the various interests that we want to pursue through society. And here is now the question of whether we will find people who will want to lead such societies, given that we will write specifically in the social law, and now for every responsibility and also with intent, as if societies are really the ones that create the conditions for intentional injury or abuse of individuals. Here I feel that logic does not follow that we want to maintain societies in Slovenia as one of the very important and very well organised forms of life of civil society. 20 000 societies are such a small number and, in my opinion, the arguments that you are making against the amendments both LDS and SD are not sitting. They are not sitting down and, of course, I would not want this form of human integration to be distorted and we will be witnessing on the basis of all these matters in the future that the number of societies is decreasing. Of course, those who intentionally do some things, but I think that in a country of law with the appropriate legislation that I think exists, must be prepared to answer for their actions and I think that this is possible today, and that transposition, this mechanical transposition of texts from economic law into this sphere of civil society, is inappropriate in my opinion. And that's why I'm going to support an amendment that somehow follows this content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u15	Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. I want to explain. Those who object to this amendment, to speak my opinion or my position first, I think it is common for us to interpret volunteerism or voluntary work in societies from the wrong assumption. I'm not talking about volunteerism. I'm not saying that people who take on a volunteer function, an individual function, aren't trained, don't master things. This is a time dimension. They're not professionals, they're not the ones who can spend a lot of time also with this supervisory function so society can function legally. I would therefore like to point out once again that, in the same rank as the president of the company, it is a social governance body, whether it is a Presidency or a committee. I'm just trying to convince you, because of this time dimension of volunteerism, that it's a good thing that this responsibility goes to this body that's not numerous. In a multi-member society, this is 5 to 7 people, etc., and thus answers to the members of the society at the annual assemblies, etc. This organ. And the other thing. Look, it's the wrong starting point again. You were talking about condescending, deviant. It's almost 20,000 entities, and there's some kind of pretentious act so far, and we're legally regulating these things because of these few individuals who could be sanctioned by another law at any time, if they were willing. It is not necessary to do so, but good, if it is already and if it is already persisting in Article 6 as it is, then we suggest that it is not just one person, but that it is on that group of these volunteers. And lastly, among these 20,000 subjects - yesterday we had a law that we discussed, which is also a kind of interest association, it is about religious freedom. But the people of God, by this law, not by the law of religious freedom, are, for example, registered to Opus Dei in Slovenia. I just want to say, let's leave a little freedom here, let's not be loose on some things, but others are extremely restrictive. And I'm not advocating that Opus Dei should be registered under the Religious Freedom Act, far from that. Yesterday, I spoke quite the contrary - that strictness must be abandoned in that law, so that there can be more of these entities. It's also kind of -- I want to tell those who talk about condescending -- it's also kind of an abuse of this institution of society law, if you're going to lead me to tell you that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u17	Mr. Bogomir Zamernik, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. To the extent possible, I would agree with the speakers. He's probably not here in this hall that wouldn't once or even work in one of the societies, for example, the tourist, Opus Dei - I don't know where you are, Mr Kumer, you are, for sure. Looking at this initiative or proposal well-intentionedly, as my colleague Petan has said, he could agree to the extent possible. If this is about the well - intentioned conduct of all those in this society, then I am sure that such complications as I will point out below cannot occur. When I was approached by a group on the Slovenian situation of top desktop players, I began to think a little differently. I think they were also at the Ministry of Justice, for internal affairs, trying to find their own right as a servant of Jernei, almost. I'll describe their problem briefly. The old NTK Petovia Ptuj Desktop Club is some of those who would now be "burned by the collective", as you suggest, shut down and create a new, with a new account, with a new tax number. Of course, at the start of the above mentioned top players, certain funds were owed according to the rules of the game, which they also received for this purpose, a little from the state and a little from the municipal budget. A letter was sent to the tablecloth that these two clubs, new and old, were joining together and that both congregations were signed. After that, they went to the municipality of Ptuj, which financed them, with a certificate of the new club and a permit from the tablemen's association of Slovenia, which also financed them to play in the first league and benefit from the funds originally intended for the operation and purpose of the old club. Officially on the Ptuj administration unit, however, was not aware of the merger of clubs, but only of the establishment of a new and the old one being erased. For these players, this meant fraud, and now they're looking for this right across all the ministries I've previously cited. And now these players have to play in a lower-ranking league, even though they belong in a higher rank. Now I'm getting to the point. However, the club president said in the evening, in public news that they could not pay the debt to the tax administration, they were too tired to set up a new club. That's great! When I saw this case, which was described to me, I find it difficult to decide that it would be more proper to do as you suggest. Because of such cases of such an amendment, I will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u19	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Understanding all the four paragraphs of Article 6 on which the two amendments are tabled and listening to the debate by the proposers of the individual amendments, including colleagues who have not tabled the amendment, I would like to comment that I hope we have all read all the provisions of this Article. Firstly, I would like to say that the authorities governing individual companies regulate their acts of establishment: statutes, some have rules on the work of society, rules of procedure and, I don't know what. Secondly, I personally estimate that the first amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is acceptable for one simple reason, where, as stated by the authorities of individual societies, it is only defined in the acts and not in the first paragraph, not in the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats, it is unlikely to be covered, although in the first part it says that the basic act does not otherwise provide and then lists some specific ones. However, paragraph 2 states that society is responsible for its obligations with all its assets. Pika, amen. But who represents society or who he is and how he is known to be guilty and responsible, we wrote in the next paragraph. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, they shall be liable in solidarity and with all their assets to their responsible persons. We said plural. It is said that the Act establishing a society is recorded who are these responsible persons who will be responsible. And this President of the Society of Petovia, Mr Zammernik said, answers if this is the way it is, but it must continue to be read if this is done to the intent and I do not know what. [[...]] And the last sentence of this paragraph states that the persons responsible are responsible to the extent of the injury caused by the company’s conduct. I think that this paragraph covers everything, but acts that must be registered on the establishment of a society, but it is written down who these responsible persons are. However, in some proceedings, either by the rules of society, I will say whether other substantive legislation is to prove that it was all that we wrote in the third paragraph. That is why I think it is a broad enough article with the second, third and fourth paragraphs and I think the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u21	Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that it is not for the reasons of some deviant cases in the conduct and situation of societies, then to pursue new legislation in such a way as to make it difficult for all those many companies that normally operate, where, as has already been pointed out, non-professionals, where people want to realize some of their interests. And I assure you that even if the article remains the way it is, we will also face deviant cases in the future. Those who want to abuse the situation in society will be able to abuse such a position in the future. Therefore, such a repressive way of tackling legislative change, particularly in an area of particular importance in Slovenia, we are acting that people are active in these societies and social organisations, that there are few countries where there are percentages of people participating in such societies. Now, because of a few deviant cases to make life difficult for everyone, it seems totally impossible and unacceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u23	Mr. Tone Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u24	I think that the first paragraph should also be deleted because it introduces confusion into the article itself and into the very understanding of the responsibility of those engaged in activities in society. I speak with activity from the fact that they plan to adopt financial plans, to then adopt final accounts, reports and so on. Can we write in the Statute that the Assembly does not confirm the balance sheets, or can we write that the President of the Society is not responsible and is not a representative and a signatory, so this paragraph is completely wrong. For the organs of society are prescribed by law, by themselves. It is not possible for an individual company to enter into a basic act where it states, unless otherwise provided for in the basic act, that the company and the representative of the company are responsible for the company’s legitimate activities. Yeah, who's that? Can we write in the file that these two don't answer? Or as I've heard before, if someone in good faith is doing something, they won't answer if it's pretentious, or if I don't know how, but no. There's only one case I know in this country in recent history that someone else was wrong because they didn't know the rules, and the court dismissed him. Only one, and this one was an MP. This cannot be interpreted in this way under these rules, as is the case in this country. And it's a real blur if you want, or a threat to those who don't understand how the law ordered them to be organized, and who's responsible for saying they will, but if I don't know how to end up, in case there's anything I can do. That the kids would tell me at home then, Father, you were in the Ballard Society, and you wasted our house. That's about how it works. A fundamental act, i.e. a statute, if you wish, cannot be determined in this way, as can be understood here, that it can be excluded, we will write in the basis of the act: "No one is responsible for the business." Because we're going to define otherwise. I understand that what is explained in Article 3 above and in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 above is that it will be clearer and more logical for anyone who deals with it to see where it is if he wants to participate in society. Finally, I answer as the last member there because I have a congregation and I have to go to the congregation every year, especially when I think something is wrong or if I request the convening of an extraordinary assembly, a supervisory, an administrative committee, etc. Those who so much refer to how you know everything and where you do everything, Opus Dei is not a society, by the way, but there is a secret box and there are no acts, no responsibilities, but do serious jobs, very bad, not registered in the way you'll be here, you won't catch them, neither with any other law will you catch them, nor do you have any purpose, not them, not any other possible. You can read some books, read some statements by some important members of Opus Dei, and see what this is all about. Don't point your finger at it, hold the thief to hide something else. But this is for another discussion. I didn't mean to call if I didn't understand that you understood this amendment as something that would water down, like we were scaring people, etc. On the contrary, I know the power, if you want, or even the trouble of the authorities, which for many years tolerated some of the activities of some societies, which by their activities, especially hospitality, etc., have been exploited for some purpose, etc. I know that. Or we can go through this way to make an opaque definition, prevent it, and I'm not sure. So once again, I understand the second, third, fourth paragraph so that everyone who engages in an activity in a society has the right and the duty to participate in the planning, in the design of financial programmes, after the purposeful use of the report. I do not know how you work elsewhere, but where I am, all these things need to be dealt with in the congregation and the representative of society and everyone else there answers all the questions, in addition to, of course, the things that need to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u25	Mr Ljublješek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. I didn't intend to come forward, given that there was a lot of talk on the working body and I didn't want it to be debated again. However, he encouraged me to discuss it with my colleague Anderlich. What he's saying, I'm getting it the other way around, this basic proposal. Since, in the first paragraph, it speaks, unless otherwise provided for in the basic act, the company and the representative of the company shall be responsible for the company’s legitimate business. I imagine that this first paragraph is a guardian, if it is not in the Statute or if it is not in the Statute, if the Society is such and different, then the President of the Society is responsible as a representative of society outside and society alone, with all his property. It's a fuse. That's what I think. The other articles then break down what is enshrined in the Statute, because liability in society is divided into different areas, financial, economic, etc. Depending on what society is like and what it does. So I'm thinking the other way around as colleague Anderlich, and there's no way I can support this amendment. As for the second amendment, on the part of social democracy, I would also agree with it, but I have also expressed my opinion on this on the working body. Smell this amendment a little after self-governing, spreading responsibility. Society is volunteer work, and if we sharpen it there, then I think it's bad for society because no one will want to work in such a society, that it will be subject to some responsibility where it spends its free time and energy. And those who take over as president know what they're getting into. And in his right mind, he decides with all his responsibility to assume this function, which he is responsible for. From this point of view I would say that I would not extend this responsibility, it is easy to write in the statute, this must be dealt with in society alone, who is also responsible in addition to the president of society, but is basically responsible outside the president of society. Anyway, it can't be any different. Society will function if the responsibility is very clear and the responsibility has a name and a name, not something in general. As I said, this first paragraph I consider to be a guardian, that in any case he is responsible in society, unless otherwise written, the representative of society, this is the President and the Society alone. I do not support this amendment, nor do I support the other amendment by Social Democracy, because I think it increases the responsibility of society to decide for themselves who will be responsible in addition to the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u27	Mr. Tone Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u28	At a time when I can hear that we have such and different societies, that we have societies without acts, without statutes and so on, I think we do not have them or we do not have the authorities to delete them, because you cannot register as a society if you do not attach these acts to the body that does it by force of law, according to the rules that exist in this country sometimes and how, for what purpose and so on, society can be organised. And these societies that don't have statutes and acts, they don't. But if they are, then it's something that has nothing to do with this article, not the law. If you know of such societies and that they are, then this is really wrong and you will not bind them with this law. Once again, I say that companies without acts are not whether they are obsolete or otherwise, but when registered, they had to submit all the acts, including the representative. It says here in paragraph three that this agent is responsible and so on. All I care about is something else that would be wrong, if it were true, I wonder, after all, how will the authority register a company that will record in the statutes that they will no longer be responsible for the business, and in the first paragraph, it says in the third paragraph that they are responsible. Could this happen, I'm asking the government. Can it happen that according to the first paragraph, a society writes in a different way from the law? Society responds with its assets. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, those who bear responsibility and so on and have it in paragraph 3 shall also be liable. I would like to agree, by my own logic, that even in societies we sharpen more than in companies and so forth this responsibility is written down, which is illogical and incomprehensible, but O. K., then at least it must not be in this Article of ambiguity which could make it possible to do so in one way or another. I understand the intention of the SD amendment as well, but I agree that if we already list the bodies or if we list all the bodies, it may be wrong that there is no one else who does not answer, if we have agreed, because it is the very purpose of society that we have an interesting connection, that we have the same goals, the same goals and, ultimately, we are all concerned that we will provide financial resources for the operation of this society and that we will all ultimately be responsible for implementing the programme and deliberately spending this money. In this sense, it may be a little narrower than ours. And because, once again, I understand the logic of organisation and responsibility in the way that it is structured, that the one who is the representative, the one who signs, and even if he has signed it in the way that there is no board of directors or none of the leaders of this society knew, only all the members of this society, that he is particularly responsible. This is perfectly clear and I support it. It can't come to someone doing this; it can come, but of course it has to answer. Therefore, I would really like to explain what this means that the basic act can be set out differently than the basic article and also the law laid down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u29	Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. So, the debate that has now developed has already been, of course, we have been looking for answers. I agree with thinking, however, why a few cases call for a sinning of life, a perfectly normal and present question. The fact is, in these 19,000 and some other societies, I've divided the society personally into three segments. Most of them are probably, I don't know, 80% who do business practically without money. This is some interesting association where members probably collect money for what little money is needed, because otherwise it is a lot of good will that they can usually pay those forms that they have to give at the annual report. Then it is a society that converts some normal money into the Slovenian situation, and a very small number of societies that convert relatively large amounts of money. And I'll give it to Mr. Anderlich when he says there's probably no society that wouldn't have all the documents, because otherwise you can't register it. There are exceptions, too, but I don't take that into account. Probably not because you have to submit a bunch of those papers when you register. I agree with that. However, it was because it was so now because they had organs, but it was happening because they are not the small ones, although they have all the organs, some also because they satisfy the conditions, but the problem is with that third category that I mentioned. There's a problem because everything was done, everything was possible and impossible, what was possible and what was not possible. Here I would give just one more forerunner, Mr. Germich, who said how it was possible today, that some sort of pretentious matter would not come on a day and not be punished. Now I'm going to say something blasphemous, really flat-rate. Because we have a court where 10 years lasts one case and then goes out of date after 10 or 5 or 15 years, nothing is solved. I said I was flattish, harsh, but that's the kind of thing that happens. If that were not the case, then for those of the worst violations that we know about anyway, and we do not want to name them, things would have been resolved and we should not have to find out here and change the law. If it doesn't work. I also agree that this law alone is unlikely to solve this. I'll give you the right one here, the one you'll say won't work. And you already said one, and I'll give you one. But if we just look quietly and do nothing, it probably won't. In addition, I am convinced that various justices, lawsuits, proceedings before a court will not last forever, as long as they now last. I'm an insatiable optimist. Likely, such things can be done better, faster, and easier to resolve. If we don't do anything, then it'll stay that way and we'll say yes, because nothing can happen, it doesn't make sense, we can go home. Then what are we even changing legislation, what are we even trying to do if we know we can't do anything? These attempts are also to protect the majority of volunteers - but volunteers in the sense that they are unpaid, they probably have a lot of knowledge - against those who exploit it. That's how I picture it. I must make it clear that of these 19.246, as far as they are concerned, I am sure that at least 19.200 of them have never thought of having any benefit. And you need to be protected. That's what this is about. And if there's something on the other side, don't hold me to say that I said that there are 46 or 50, I'm talking about a large majority, and a small number that exploits things through different clubs, companies that have worked in one way or another, but inside they're called clubs and so on. It has to be done, and in this context, I understand this experiment. But I'll give it to you who think otherwise. But something has to be done after all. This is one of the attempts to do something. I also expect the Government's representative's response to the questions raised by the motioners of this amendment to make it more clear to us. Those who may not have been involved in the preparation of such a text before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u31	Mr. Joseph Bajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One more time. I only know registered companies. And this law that we're talking about today will be able to set some standards only for those registered companies. Second. Comrade Petan, it's just like you said. I've been involved with some established companies, you have to have a list, you have to call a meeting, you have to submit a record for registration, you have to submit an act establishing and you have to submit a statute. If the authority is correct in the administrative unit which registers this company, it is necessary to review this Statute, if it has comments, to return it, it is necessary to re-join the assembly, and it is necessary to complete it and it will be stated in this Statute who is the responsible person. In the third paragraph of this article, we have even written a multitude of responsible persons. The acts, however, state that in the hunting family it is an elder, with the Automotive Society, that it is the chairman of the executive or executive committee, that it is somewhere, I don't know who and I don't know what. In the third paragraph, we wrote down with all our property this person is responsible - it is unnecessary for me first paragraph because I think it narrows the matter down because it says - and I repeat what colleague Anderlich said - if the basic act, or if we say that the elder of the hunting family is not responsible if he has done so. Here I answer to my colleague the Ambassador, because in this third paragraph he says, "responsible persons who, in their favour or in the benefit of others, have reduced society's assets or have diverted business or financial flows to other existing or newly established ones" and I do not know what. What happened in Ptuj or I don't know where my colleague Zammernik said, it's not the subject of this law and the norm of this law, but it's the subject of another procedure where it's determined the responsibility that this president has redirected these societies or set up a new society, pardon, all debts left to someone else and started a new business. I personally re-evaluate that the third paragraph is one that would probably take us future presidents away from the fact that [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u33	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting when we consider in this second reading the proposal of individual amendments, where we are somehow trying to give and provide an additional fuse regarding the functioning of societies, its authorities, based on the fact that in the past many irregularities have occurred in the business of societies. There were also different purposes and interests of interest association. If it comes from where I come from, these societies are primarily set up to bring together a narrow circle of people who are connected because of some common interests. Of course, if I looked on the other side in some other societies, I can see that their business with large assets and large sums was often wrong and even condemned. Of course, the applicant had to take this into account. And if I look now at these amendments to Article 6, both the one proposed by the LDS and the one proposed by the SD. I'd almost agree with that, but there's something else that bothers me. In Article 6, where we are talking about responsibility, we need to take further precautions or safeguards into account so that what has happened in the past does not happen. And if I were to remain only the first paragraph, and this longest third paragraph would not have been at all, perhaps I would have formally abstained from this article in some way. However, it seems important to me that the applicant gave this opportunity and an additional guardian, "unless the basic act provides otherwise, the company and the representative of the company are responsible for the company's legitimate business". And if that were all that was left, perhaps this third paragraph would hardly be necessary. In connection with the first paragraph with the third paragraph, we get a comprehensive fuse, which in some ways may also give an individual an idea as to whether or not he is needed. In my opinion, it is necessary and right that, given the many irregularities in the past, it should be added as an additional protector. And in my opinion there is nothing more than it is necessary to delete or in any way extend this first paragraph, as proposed, as I have already said, from LDS and SD. Well, if I stress this responsibility again. You know, it's not about the 8, 10 or how many percent of the companies in the Republic of Slovenia. This is about some individual societies that have used the basic purpose of these societies and have found that in their interest they have somehow done bad things in society. It seems to me that most of the societies in the Republic of Slovenia are set up to drive and run responsiblely also with the minimum money they have and also with the property they have. This is, of course, two or three levels of these societies. It seems to me, or I firmly believe, that this is a responsibility, to protect the responsibility of especially those societies with large assets with large balance-sheet sums at the end of the year, and to identify individual amounts where they are, both money and liability are lost. I think it is appropriate that this Article 6 remains in the form proposed, so I will not support the amendment to Article 6 by the LDS and the SD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u35	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to object to the view that in the field of societies there are such or other forms of registered and unregistered forms for a simple reason because I do not believe that this is the case. For the establishment of a society, as has been said here many times, requires certain procedures, and if you fail to comply with these procedures, then you cannot be organized as a society. It seems to me that such debates can be commented on in public as some form that somehow denies what is happening in society today and that they also seem harmful to me. Of course, I agree, Comrade Petan, that we want to do together with some decision of the text in the law, that there will be or that there will be no intentional schemes that would want to harm the functioning of individual societies, smaller, larger, capital stronger, financially stronger, financially weaker. You can already see that today is a system that can detect anomalies. That perhaps then not everything is done in the way that it could be ideally done, but you can already see that today the system under the law already allows for the recording of irresponsible behaviour or even pretenses and it is possible to carry out certain procedures. Why do we propose this amendment? We propose this amendment entirely from a substantive, logical basis. The first paragraph states that "unless the basic act provides otherwise, companies and representatives of society are responsible for the company's legitimate business." And if you look at that in the basic act we can write total responsibility in a different way than the third paragraph should follow, in this case the first and third paragraphs will be in conflict, because the society will be able to define liability by means of a basic act in a different way, and this in our opinion must not be the purpose of this article. For example, in this article, we can actually have a mix-up that can be done, say, in different societies. For if the responsible person is something else in the basic act, then you will have an agent of a society with one responsibility, which must be defined by the basic act, and eventually you will have someone responsible for the legality of the functioning of society. Of course, there is a conflict here in our opinion, and that there would be no conflict, we propose deleting the first paragraph of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u37	I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Here you go, Mrs. Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. We propose that the words "or legal person" be deleted in the first paragraph and that the second paragraph of this Article be deleted. Indeed, it is unacceptable for us that societies can also establish legal persons. Companies are primarily, when they are generally known, dedicated to the activities and pursuit of the interests of individuals, i.e. civilians. It is unacceptable for profit organisations to set up non-profit organisations whose aim is to set up societies through which profit organisations can run and use companies to create and incur profits. The bill does not prevent this, so we propose that this text be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u39	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! I am pleased that the debate on the law of society has reached a certain intensity, despite the fact that there are few of us in this room, which certainly shows that social activity is, thank God, quite a wave in Slovenia. And we certainly want to prepare an appropriate, good legal act by which societies can operate. My general assessment is that the lawmakers have prepared a good text. A text that follows modern trends and is indeed a solid foundation for the functioning of societies. Some believe that society should not establish legal persons or legal entities and that this is not Slovenian practice. They see that we are interfering with those fundamental social activities that have been taking place in Slovenia for a long time. Colleagues and colleagues, social activity in Slovenia is almost 250 years old. Legally speaking, we get the first law governing society in the area of present Slovenia, in 1849 with the so-called Imperial Patent, and later other laws, either through civil law or later special laws regulating the areas of society, at the same time political parties, meetings and so on. When reading this literature, which speaks of social activities on Slovenian soils, one finds that the first companies in Slovenia were set up by economic operators. In a way, then, legal entities, legal entities. According to law enforcement agencies, savings companies have been set up. For example, agricultural cooperatives are very typical, which have also established societies for agriculture, livestock and so on. By the end of the 19th century, the Railway Directorate had established a society called reciprocity for its workers, which somehow cared for better standards and better conditions for railway workers. Mohor's society, we know the genetics of Mohor's society, was actually created as a society. This was done in the initial phase of the bookmaking activity and subsequently favoured later reading and other activities. In short, we have had founders on Slovenian soil by legal entities all the time, up to II. World War I or somehow until the first law of II. World War II, I think it was adopted in 1947. Slovenia is the only Member State of the European Union, in addition to Spain, that does not allow the inclusion of the institution's rights or does not grant the institution's rights to legal entities for the establishment of societies. Therefore, once again, I personally believe that the prepared text, in particular as regards the establishment of societies, is, as regards Article 8, that it is an appropriate text and I also support it, assuming, of course, that the control mechanisms set out in this law will, of course, act absolutely and permanently. This is a prerequisite, of course it is also a problem, a control problem, which we are also facing in other spheres of life, but of course here I would like to highlight it in particular. So unfortunately, I cannot support the amendment of LDS colleagues to Article 8 which does not allow the establishment of a society by legal persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Bones, you may be welcome, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I would only associate myself with this position, which Mr Horvat pointed out in the end, even when I saw the first version of this law, I became careful here, we are simply used to reading and unfortunately to apply laws in the past, so that we can see how they can be abused, but not how they are respected. I think that the approach of this amendment is written from this point of view, and I myself immediately thought about whether legal persons can now be setting up a society, which means that there is a possibility of abuse. However, I think the time has come for us to simply start our mentality about the attitude towards law and legal acts to change in a positive direction. In fact, we accept laws in order to respect them, not to look primarily at where we are going to violate them. I do not condemn anyone, but I think that this is an essential difference in the mentality that we still have in the past, and given that it has become a European standard, that legal persons can also set up so-called NGOs, which is also enshrined in the fundamental principles of the status of NGOs in Europe, this is an act of the Council of Europe, which provides that every person, both physically and legally, must be allowed to set up a non-governmental organisation, that is, a society. I think this is one step forward, of course, under the assumption, as I mentioned earlier. We need to start looking at and applying legislation more positively. However, I believe that this fear, expressed by the proposer of this amendment, was in some way also neutralised by the adoption of an amendment on the Committee, which, inter alia, states, "without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, companies cannot establish a society which has a certain activity in the basic act which an economic company carries out as its activity." I believe that, as I said, it is necessary to approach the law positively and to try to Europeanise our situation in this area, of course, if practice itself shows problems, it will be necessary to act. But I don't think that's the only law that needs to be watched over how it's going to apply. We have a whole bunch of other regulations and the possibility of controlling it. That's why I don't think such an amendment is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u43	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Although neither I nor the Group of Members do not support the amendments to Article 6, because we do not see any logical non-consistence in the paragraphs, this amendment is supported, personally and also in the group. In fact, it has been mentioned that if this amendment is not available, there remain open opportunities for abuse, for concealment, for some circumstantial transactions, and no one has denied that this would therefore not be possible. The question is whether it is necessary for legal persons to establish societies. Even these arguments, why this is such a need, are not mentioned, at least we do not see them. However, there is an argument that the legal practice in Europe is tilting in this direction to equalise natural and legal persons, but that is probably not enough. If there is a threat or danger that this opens the door more wide for the possibility of spilling profits, for the possibility of covert transactions, for the possibility of abuse, then I don't know why this door would open up to me. And the argument that one day later, when we monitor this event, we change it is not a valid argument either. It's better to stop it than then to cushion what might already hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u45	Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. It was now also clear from Mr Kokal's discussion that legislation should be viewed positively. Of course, it is now possible to see a comprehensive conversion in view of the debate we have had in Article 6. So we don't trust individuals, representatives of societies who volunteer to do some work, and we write down in the law that if they become that, they will answer and so on. I agree that it is necessary to define the responsibility of everyone who operates in society and from representative to last member in society. Now, when we look at Article 8, let's say that now we open the door to difficulties so that legal persons can also set up societies, but there are no clear answers to whether this does not open the door to the possibility that the society may be able to engage in a profitable activity, and then the funds will be earmarked for the activities of the society, but because of the interests of the legal person with these surpluses they will be able to have at their disposal for other purposes. Of course, then logic does not follow the same course. The individual must be squeezed and the legal person given the opportunity to set up a society and this society can also be used in activities to create an opportunity to spill profits for purposes that will not serve the activities of the company. And because we are not consistent here in the system, in what way we are dealing with each other, we are proposing to close this possibility, these exceptional cases, which have been discussed in the framework of the debate on the amendment to Article 6, but I think that there is an opportunity here to do just that, precisely for those abuses, just that some who will want to function in such a way as to look for opportunities as a legal person to channel profits by using them not for the purpose that society is set up, that is to say for their activities. We therefore propose that this option be excluded from the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u47	I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the parliamentary group of national communities. Anybody want a word? Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I regret that the amendment to Article 2 was not adopted on the Committee, which clearly stated that members of the national communities could establish their own societies. The amendment was rejected by the argument that it is irrelevant, that it is already envisaged in the Constitution and that anyone can establish societies at all. I agree with that, or I could agree with that if it did not happen a few years ago something completely different. In fact, with the same argument for more than a year, we were not allowed to register our societies as associations of members of the Italian national community and I do not believe that there is any trace of this episode in the internal ministry; that it is unconstitutional that there is a society established on the basis of nationality. While this right has been a fundamental right since there have been any forms of protection of national communities, it is mainly after II. World War II, from the UN Charter to our Constitution, this fundamental right is the fundamental one, that it is even possible for someone who is different from the nationalities in one country, that this right, that it is different, lives. On this basis, in one of the coastal cities at the time, one part of the members refused to agree that they could not have their own society and that the matter had split up there, and there was still this conflict, although the story was corrected when it was found that such a thing would not have sustained a constitutional judgment. It is trying to partially fix this by another, the suture path, the amendment to Article 10. And that's one side of the story. The other side of the story is the registration of the name. Societies in the context of national communities are the societies that are the bearers of culture, with this language and so on. These are the guys. Now, given the 5th, 11th, 61st, 62nd, I do not remember, 64th Article of the Constitution and so on, last but not least 82nd Article, and the way in which the situation of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia is systematically defined, in fact, in my humble opinion, it is absurd that it is not possible for Italians and Hungarians to tomorrow, I hope that today, but tomorrow when the law on the Roma is passed, it is absurd that what is the bearer of the culture of these national communities cannot be registered in the language of these national communities, but more so can only be translated. This, in my opinion, is absurd and contradictory in terms of the spirit of the constitution. With regard to bilinguality or bilinguality of registration, I should point out that if something such as is now enshrined in the draft law as it came out of the Internal Policy Committee of any society which is established in national mixed areas, it must be registered in both languages. Now, in which language is first and in which language is translated, this is a matter of membership. As far as Article 10 is concerned, I am aware that in my proposal I have missed the concept of a seat, it is said that this text is perfect and there is still a lot of change to be made here. But I ask you to open this article for a third reading, because if not, the text as proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy will be adopted, but this text, I assure you, it will not abstain from a constitutional opinion. This is because I have simply read the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the first decision of the Consumer Protection Act, which is fresh, and I have followed how things have gone with regard to the assessment of the constitutionality of the former Article 4 of the Public Administration Act when, on our initiative to assess constitutionality, the Constitutional Court, after we have corrected Article 4 and is now in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has found that there is no need for this to be decided, since the matter has been resolved in the meantime. So I ask that this article be opened and arranged in a manner consistent with our legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u49	Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I would just like to express my solidarity with this proposal from the two national groups, because it seems to me that: for the first time, it is necessary to support this amendment; for the second time, it seems to me that the argument we have heard is appropriate and sustainable. For the third time, it seems to me that, although an attempt has been made on the Committee on Internal Affairs to show a greater preference for the ambitions of representatives of the national communities, it has not been sufficiently thought out and I do not know why it should really be written as it is now, so that the name may also consist of a translation. So why leave it in a subordinate position? Why might it not be written that we write names for the national communities in their language and allow the translation of the Slovenian language? I don't see any valid reason for that! And since there is no reason for this, at least I do not see them not to support such an amendment, I therefore reaffirm my solidarity with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u51	Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u52	So I would also like to point out that, of course, I support this amendment. I also suggest that we accept it in order to open the article, perhaps it is still missing that this name, which is originally in Hungarian or Italian, is then translated into Slovenian, so let's say, in the terms "legal traffic". So that other people of Slovenia will know, understand what the title of this society is. This would be supported by this; but would we not support, say, this fact, that in Austria, where our national community lives, for example, some society is established with a view to caring specifically for the Slovenian language and having a society title, is called, is Slovenia beautiful? Would I be opposed to the fact that such a society is also called in Austria by that name and that others know what this society is dealing with should we allow or enforce a German translation? I think that the matter is, in particular, logical and that it is right to support this amendment in order to be able to supplement it adequately by the third reading, if the need for it appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u53	I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group of Members. Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u54	Therefore, we propose to ensure in Article 26 that the threshold for the management of simplified - simple accounting - is raised from 1 million to 2 million tolars, so that the value of an asset, which is one of the criteria for determining the management of simple bookkeeping, should be increased again to 10 million tolars, which should make it easier to keep books to smaller societies. I think this is very important, because as long as we put this burden on so many societies to keep these books complicated, it seems to me that we are also moving away from the essence of society's activities, so this amendment is aimed at this goal and I am also asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u55	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Members of the company are at the core of a society that realizes its interests in society and usually contributes most of its own resources to the functioning of society. In view of the discussion that was held at the time of Article 6 and that the members of society also have and assume legal responsibility under Article 6, we propose that Article 26 be supplemented and that they assume responsibility for the legality and financial functioning of the company, that the financial operation of the company is always without exception to all members. Here it is in some ways a positive view of regulating legal relations through legal acts, as previously said.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u57	I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.35. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, the bill on the protection of public order and peace. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Since the government's representatives are not in the Pardont Hall, excuse me! [[...]] I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace is, among other things, amended or ready for the course of the meeting. The former, 1974, has been amended as many as fifteen times, supplemented by one of the oldest regulations in force. Despite numerous amendments, additions and repeals of individual articles, it is still a fundamental rule in the field of public order and peace. The fact is that it has been written in a spirit of a completely different time, circumstances that have changed substantially, especially in the field of provisions, both substantive and terminology, which no longer correspond to the changed social and social conditions of today. The very basic purpose of the bill is to define clearly and definitively unacceptable social practices and to determine appropriate sanctions for them. The fundamental principles, objectives and main solutions to the bill are as follows. Effective provision of public order and peace with a view to exercising the individual's right to security and dignity as fundamental human goods, constitutional rights as set out in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Further to ensure greater emphasis on the security of persons in the private area, since these insurances have so far been provided only by a provision of compromised security in the private space and nothing else. Furthermore, to establish the responsibility of the local communities and the police in ensuring security by conferring powers on the municipal editors to act in completely tax-based cases. Further ensure anti-discrimination action by establishing a specific provision in the law which provides for higher sanctions if the offence is committed for reasons of discrimination. And last but not least, the extension of the provisions on violations by elements of violence that we have divided into multiple offences according to their weight. In fact, the current regime covered such offences in essentially one article. The draft law sets out, in general provisions, basic cases, concepts such as public space, private space, public order and peace, beatings, undignified behaviour and so on. Of course, some notions are also inconclusive, I must say that, based on the current law, there has been some kind of practice, which has been in place for 30 and a few years, which quite precisely defines what belongs to a particular concept. In the second chapter, the proposal lays down offences and sanctions for defined offences. These include beatings, bold and violent behaviour, indecent behaviour, disrupting peace by causing noise, begging under certain conditions, staying in a public place - equally, using dangerous objects, damaging official inscriptions, vandalism, illegal collection of voluntary contributions, illegal camping, inappropriate use of animals, non-refoulement of infringements in a guesthouse - obligation for the responsible person, failure to respect legal measures of officials, false reporting of an offence. In this chapter, there is also an anti-discrimination provision, which I mentioned in the introduction, which provides for a stricter sanction if the offence is committed with the aim of inciting ethnic, racial, sexual, ethnic, religious and political intolerance or, of course, sexual orientation. Chapter three. The draft law in this Chapter governs the powers to seize items which, at the time of the offence, may be seized by both police officers and directors in the tax rulings. In the fourth chapter, the law introduces a special mandate of the police to ensure public order, namely the exclusion of energy resources. Chapter five, the bill defines the authorities that exercise control over us by respecting the law. In the sixth, however, transitional and final provisions are laid down. The bill provides for the implementation of the law within 15 days of publication in the Official Journal and is bound by the adoption of a decree or municipal decree regulating camping in the local community. As new offenses, the bill provides for camping, begging, and some that I have previously counted. The bulk of the offences are clearly defined in the bill after our assessment, but legal science allows for a certain part of the generality of the law. However, the amendments adopted on the definition of unworthy behaviour in explanation of concepts try to define this concept as precisely as possible in order to avoid any confusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u60	The proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace was considered by the Committee at its 19th meeting and at its first follow-up to the following day. He also gave his written opinion to the draft law, which was presented by their representative at the Committee's own meeting. He said that the State Council was in favour of the bill. With regard to the individual provisions of the draft law, however, he pointed out in particular the provisions of Articles 9 and 10 which, according to the Council of State, are not known by most European countries. The draft law also addressed the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as an interested working body and drew up a written opinion which shows that the Committee has considered the draft law in terms of its competences, in particular those relating to the joint responsibility of local communities, in addition to the police, in providing security by conferring powers on the supervision, action and decision-making of municipal officials in cases covered by the individual articles of the draft law. At the invitation of the President of the National Assembly, who was given to mayors of municipalities and municipalities, some mayors submitted their written opinions. However, the Community of Slovene municipalities and the Association of Slovene municipalities also forwarded their written opinions to the proposal for a law. In addition to the other invited representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the applicant had mainly taken account of their written comments and the remaining open comments made by this service to Articles 6, 14, 16, 20 and 21. Members and members of the Committee discussed in particular the following amendments and articles of the bill. With regard to the amendment to Article 1 for new Articles 3.a, 8a and 8b, which were intended to protect younger minors with regard to the entry without their parents' escort into the inn where they pour alcoholic beverages. In most cases, the members and members of the Committee agreed that the purpose of the proposed amendments was good, but they considered that their place was not in the draft law governing offences against public order and peace and that the amendments were not supported. The debate on amendments to Articles 6, 9, 10, 16, 27, 28 and 30 of the Act was further developed. The amendment was tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, the SD Group, the LDS Group of Members, the SLS and New Slovenia Group of Members, the SNS Group of Members and the Member of the Cveta Zalokar Orazem and Ambassador Vila Rezman. The Committee adopted the following amendments: the SD Group of Members, the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendments of the SNS Group of Members, as well as the amendment of the LDS Club of Members. Finally, he supported all the articles of the proposed law together, which he also proposed to confirm to the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the draft law at its 14th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24.5.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS. Anybody want a word? Mr. Aleš Gulič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u62	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We suggest that the words "violent" and "indignant" be deleted in the first paragraph. The reason is that this article, as set out in the proposal, actually allows for inequality before the law, is that there is a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. Indeed, there are two provisions that overlap here, namely to cover the legal signs of offences with legal signs of crime, and this is unacceptable in terms of legal certainty. In fact, if a person offends or commits violence, it may be punishable by a fine or imprisonment of up to three months or even by imprisonment of up to two years under article 169 or 299 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. Then the policeman would be the one to decide whether to define an individual’s conduct as a crime or a crime. So, in the same act, a French officer would decide, for example, if he was in good will, that it was a crime if he was in a bad mood and a crime. Two cops could've done something different. And since this cannot depend solely on the subjective assessment of how the action will be defined, we propose in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club that the words "violent" and "infringing" be deleted from the first paragraph. And so this paragraph would remain: "He who dares or encourages someone to fight or behaves in a bold, rude or similar way or pursues someone..." and so on. It is, therefore, that the article becomes clearer and, above all, that it will make it easier for the police to act without doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u63	I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the two amendments of the LDS Group of Members. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will present our position or the two amendments, present them and, of course, try to convince someone to follow us after we vote. We talked a lot about this on the committee, including in public hearing, the first reading of the law. First of all, in this Article, which defines misconduct, we propose that, with regard to the decision on the second paragraph of this Article, which relates to the misconduct of an official, a decision not to be taken by a police officer but to transfer that decision to the jurisdiction of the court. If not, we can understand the usual contact between an officer, an official, another official, for example, behind an official's office window in an administrative unit, an official or an official can do what quickly, if he falls, or if he falls into a level of tolerance, reclassify himself into a demeanor and immediately press someone if he says domestically, for 50 or 100 or 100 or 200 thousand dollars. We don't think that's right. I think it's up to the court to decide. After all, all these people here, the cops, the cops, the officials, the officials, are doing certain services for the citizens, which they always try to teach us and try to prove and show us, say, the minister, Mr Virant. I therefore propose that no decision be taken on this procedure and that this decision be transferred to the jurisdiction of the courts. Another time. The second amendment refers to a matter that has raised a lot of attention, including in public and elsewhere, but it is a matter of proposing that the words 'or intrusively offering sexual services' be deleted in the third paragraph. Of course, it's a question of prostitution. As you know, prostitution is decriminalized in us, and such a sentence once again allows prostitution to be criminalized in some way through wrongdoing. I will not talk about the values of the issues, what prostitution is, what its characteristics are, when it comes to, all the valuations, allows all the possible views on this phenomenon, but we must say in particular that for us the type of qualification "intrusively offers" is very open, indeterminate and, of course, therefore difficult to define - which is insurmountable for someone else, there is no one else. Therefore, a very different practice will develop clearly and there is a possibility in this openness of some disguised new repression in one way or another. I would just say that, like I said, there were a lot of words in the media about this. I remember this Monday at 8.15 p.m. I was driving in cars to the sea because I went to a conference, and I was not here if you remember, and I listened to the announcement of the central Slovenian daily newspaper. And the journalist who announced this journal said something like this: "Take this newspaper, the central Slovenian newspaper. We report that there will be a happy start to the meeting of the National Assembly, and at this meeting of the National Assembly will be one of the main points of the Law on Public Order and Peace. SLS and Nova Slovenija insist on protecting children and minors from alcohol and to prevent and prevent children and minors from going to bars after midnight, while LDS continues to promote prostitution and begging." That was the message. The message, which was given, I will comment on this: we have never been sorry and have always been only publicly defending the interests of certain special groups, deprived groups. We do not ask ourselves about life's "styles", we demand that the lifestyles of others do not interfere; but if such qualifications are put in place, I will only tell you that this article is not just about defending one or the other, the beggars or the prostitutes; it is a lot more! And that's what we've been trying to tell you in the last three or four months. It's about more, it's about where you and together you'll let me interfere with your intimate relationship. This law is a law on public order and peace, but this law in some very specific way also regulates your intimacy. If you are willing to accept this and to impose it on others, you will, of course, take responsibility for it. Therefore, I tell you that such qualifications, of course, can be politically very interesting; in LDS, we have never defended them from the point of view of defending freedom, as well as individual intimacy, and of defending a distinction between public and private spheres. And that's what this word is about. Innocent formulations here can be very fatal formulations for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u65	Here you go, Mr. Sok. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Since the speaker mentioned New Slovenia in front of me and some writing in a local newspaper, of course I must tell him that New Slovenia has never ordered such a record. We agree that such and similar records may constitute discrimination against a particular political party, but that is precisely why we advocated this principle of correction in the media law yesterday, and it has already been confirmed today that it will be right for you to be able to make such statements, of course, within the deadlines provided for by the media law and in the manner envisaged by this law, to request correction and a correct statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, there's no replica. I'll write you up for the debate. There's Mr. Franz Kangler in front of you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u68	Well, of course, I can't support such an amendment. However, I have decided to speak, on the basis of a discussion by my fellow Member, who also mentioned my client. And I think I have the right to speak and to argue with him, given that he mentioned our position. We too advocate that there is a separation between public and private life and that it is separate. However, with all due respect to you, Mr Gantar, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of what is happening on Slovenian streets, on Slovenian roads, after midnight, what is happening in the parks. And if we walked several times in the late night hours on Ljubljana streets, Maribor streets or other streets, and had a sense of real everyday life, we could find that a great many of our children, aged 14 or 15, after midnight are left to themselves and move around such streets, places, parks and different places as can be a simple citizen, a citizen, a father or a mother’s concern. And it is certainly right to write down in the law what we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party that young people under the age of 16 are prohibited from entering without the presence of parents or guardians in a place where alcoholic beverages are poured. You strongly opposed this and advocated allowing such opportunities. But ours and my own personal opinion is - and given my arguments which I told you on the committee at the time, that you also allow a child aged 14 or 15 to enter a nightclub called a night club, according to our own words, where we have either domestic or foreign pornography, such or other sexual pleasures against payment, where such or other spirit drinks are flowing, and no one has a basis - we did not accept, you did not agree - that we could put someone at the door. A 15 - year - old youth, male or female, asked for a ID card or asked where he had a guardian or a parent. That's what you allow. Personally, though, I am concerned that someone aged 14 or 15 walks late in the night alone with a bag of booze and alcohol in his hand, and I could also list it. That's, I think, the policy issue is that it doesn't happen. Personally, I am well aware that not everything is in the law, that we cannot prohibit or record everything by law. However, if we do not put the legal basis in one of the laws we have today on the agenda, this is the law on public order and peace, I think it is acceptable that such a dictatorship of the article as we proposed in Article 3a or Article 8a or Article 8b together with New Slovenia could also be adopted. If you, fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues, feel it appropriate that our children, who are 14 or 15 years old, should walk through the streets alone in the middle of the night, enter the nightclubs themselves, into bars, watch prostitution or anything else, enjoy alcoholic beverages, then each political party will take this responsibility. This real picture of everyday life in the party is clear to us, is very worrying, and we see nothing wrong to interfere too much with the daily life of young people. After all, it is a matter of nine - year - olds who attend or attend primary school. 15 or 16 years of age are old students who finish primary school. I'm sure they don't have the possibility of moving around places like this after midnight. We who are called here today give them the opportunity and the opportunity to continue to do so without the help of parents or caregivers. If they were so "fair" and correct, comparable legislation within the EU, as well as some other countries that have developed parliamentary democracy, could already be found among neighbours to see how this matter is regulated as regards age, as far as children or younger minors are concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u69	Mr Kangler, I would warn you, I have allowed you to debate because your debate on the third paragraph of Article 7 has been set out, but you are too limited to what is not in this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u70	I am discussing the amendment to Article 7 and have also referred to Article 22 at the same time and to the debate of my fellow Member, and I think that you have unduly interrupted me because I wanted to conclude the debate. If I want to say the content from the beginning to the end, then I also have to tie some other articles to the debate itself. I don't think I wanted my debate to lead to a breach of the rules of procedure. I would like to draw attention to these problems, and I will conclude with this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u71	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I, too, believe that the amendment tabled in Article 7 is not justified, nor are the amendments to Articles 6 and 9 justified. Given that Mr Gantard's debate referred to this segment. That is why I may speak more broadly myself and also talk about the content of all three articles, given that they are also in some way connected. I believe that the debate in the first reading was constructive enough, appropriate and also appropriate, and the Government has appropriately included in the preparation of the text for the second reading some amendments and corrections that have a basis in these dilemmas and warnings that have emerged in the first reading or in the first reading. These adjustments also make the rest more life-saving and will make their use easier in practice. Of course, I understand some of the concerns that point out that some of the definitions we are talking about are too much of an interference with human individuality, his way of life, as stated, and thus in his human rights. I can understand this, but, on the other hand, we must always take into account the rights and interests of others, others, who may be affected and disturbed, and it is also right that these rights and interests of people should be adequately protected. Human freedom is limited to the rights of others affected by it. More than once, and even today, we have heard comments that the law should not use certain concepts, such as violence, abusive behaviour, indecent behaviour, abusive manner, not least harassment or harassment of people, but that these are rather inconclusive concepts that are difficult to assess in concrete terms and to judge that this is not an objective criterion that could be defined. This certainly is true, but it is true that this applies practically to all legal provisions. There is always a need for a subjective assessment of the person who makes the decision. He must assess and determine whether the act he deals with contains elements in the rule of the marked act. And so it is also in all of these concepts that I have mentioned and that some of you say with the amendment that they need to be deleted - obsessive way, undignified violence and so on. If the decision-making authority finds this fact, then it shall take an appropriate decision in its action, but of course this decision of the authority, in a particular case of a police officer, may also be contested in all such cases, as any other decision may be contested in administrative and judicial proceedings which, in the case of objections or complaints, may be examined at higher levels of decision-making. The essence of the determination or determination we are talking about is to ensure that people's safety is as high as possible, security is one of the most important values that people want to have. Therefore, we need to do our utmost to adopt such rules as far as possible to ensure the highest possible degree of security, irrespective of the fact that sometimes ensuring human security also means reducing or restricting the full freedom of individual conduct. Indeed, it is impossible to justify the conduct of a person, if, this is his way of life, because this is also stated in the argument for an amendment, otherwise Article 9, that it is a way of life, and therefore this must be allowed. However, if this way of life is intrusive, it disturbs others and it is necessary to protect other people, for it interferes with the rights of others. An individual may do whatever is permitted and anything that does not affect the human rights of others. For this reason, I believe that the law under consideration and the provision under consideration on which the amendment has been tabled successfully aims to ensure as much security, public order and peace as possible, that no one is set to abolish individual human rights, even though restrictions on behaviour are established and prescribed in public places and also in private premises. That is why this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 9, because then I will not take my word for it, I consider it inappropriate, inappropriate and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u73	Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. First of all, let this be a brief replica of Mr. Sok. If we didn't get along, my colleague, Ambassador Sok, let me calm down. I would never have thought that NSI or SLS would have ordered such a government message to advertise a newspaper, a central diary of at least central Slovenia on Val 202. Not at all. There's no need to be afraid here. In a way, you were also abused in an advertisement for a newspaper. That's a fact. The article that described this law and preparations for the meeting in the same newspaper was extremely correct and, to be clear, you can’t read it. Now what needs to be said is that the debate has put forward that I, in my discussion, should allow minors to march around the bars around midnight with strange programs to drink that I should not even have anything to do with it, if I did not encourage it, and that is me, where I must openly admit to the regret of the winemakers and others that I cannot bear two glasses of wine to encourage people to drink, is a little strange. What I said is simply that it is certainly not good for children to go by at night or to be exposed to harmful or other influences, such or otherwise, but I also told you that I protest primarily in nationalizing children, you nationalize children and tell them that the state should prevent them. Where are the parents? Where's their role? I'm sorry, Mr Vice President, I'm just answering because this is connected and we'll talk about it again, I agree. In short, that's our main argument. You're trying to nationalize children. What Mr Kovacič said, I would say just that, and this is the debate on these articles, that I agree with his discussion in principle. I think we have a very similar view of what such a law should regulate and how we have great differences in whether this law regulates it in this way. In particular, I would say that it is a clear starting point for the freedom of an individual to take account of the rights and interests of others. In my opinion, however, this is not taken into account, in this law we are trying to create some code of conduct, some agenda for citizens and citizens of Slovenia in a large house called Slovenia or the household order of citizens and citizens of Slovenia in a house called Slovenia. Instead of trying to define when it interferes with the rights of others, what are the practices that need to be limited and what kind of restriction should be, there is not much to say in a certain way, but a general morality of society. What remains to be said is that this is a question of a way of life, that we justify that there are harmful or harmful practices for others, that we justify them, that they can be acceptable because it is such a way of life. We have never said that, we have not claimed that it is only because it is a way of life, because prostitution is a way of life, because it makes one value as a way of life. We even think, personally, I think that we should try everything to find the purpose of trying everything to make this way of life less, to make prostitution less, to make this way of life less, but not, for God's sake, with the law on public order and peace. The law on public order and peace will not solve the problem of prostitution or begging as a way of life. And that's what I'm trying to tell you. This can be solved by other policies in a different way, by other sectoral laws and so on, and this is our point in this whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I will be disciplined and I will follow Article 7 which is an open debate on the LDS amendment. First of all, the second paragraph, who is arguing, yelling or disrespecting the official, because this is a violation, is here in fact, as I think, a matter of subjective character. A police officer or an official estimates that the opposite party behaves indecently to yell. What's the shouting, how loud is the shouting? What's a fight? What's a more dynamic conversation? But this is actually some subjective assessment that's always problematic because it's not measurable. There is an official, given that he is a violation, so I have understood in previous discussions, he can give a warning and then he can take a fine. The suggestion that this should not be dealt with in a rapid manner is entirely from a practical point of view, given that I do not have legal knowledge, I find it difficult to imagine how this procedure would then proceed through a court of law. Who would witness a police officer, a violator? That's one. What's the speed of the proceedings in court? How quickly this case would be settled through the court, given that there is still, as we know, a lot of free capacity in court. It means that this would needlessly burden the courts. Obsolete procedure, encouraging you to get into a fight with an official, yelling, misbehaving because you know that this procedure is going to be out of date, means encouraging such behavior. Here I would logically expect by the LDS amendment that this paragraph be deleted, that it is not at all and remains as it is. I'd expect it more than a court-martial. As for the third paragraph, who in a public place is sexually present, displays the sex organs, offers sexual services in an intrusive manner, and I ask myself here personally what does this mean in an intrusive way, the definition of sex services. To be talked by a woman, I speak in this direction, not to say that a man urges another sex to hold your hand, to begin undressing, or to begin undressing you. What is an intrusive way? I don't think most adults would even mind. However, there are also minors in a public place, and we must watch this. And most adults probably wouldn't mind, maybe even minors wouldn't mind watching it, but I don't think that's appropriate from another point of view. That's why I don't think I have anything personal against prostitution, but let's make this discreet, impervious in public places. From this point of view, I do not support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u77	Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Dear Mr State Secretary, the Social Democrats have been actively involved in the treatment of the labour force and have expressed their views in the context of the first reading, so these fundamental comments have been made on what is the relationship between the law, which deals with issues that polarize people into two fairly clearly expressed positions - one that requires greater rigour, and the other, which raises the question of where the restriction of personal freedom can be cut - I will not be overly busy. However, I would like to say that some of our Group's comments have been taken into account, but some things remain open. And in the framework of the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy to Article 7 of this Act in the first paragraph, I would like to express my opinion. When we discussed the law, it also contained a provision specifically relating to prostitution, and we realized that the article that spoke about prostitution was lined up because we thought that this was an area to be arranged elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u79	Excuse me, Mrs. Potter. I'd like to ask you to stop the parallel meetings at the meeting room.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. But I'm a professional who can talk at the noise. Thank you. I would like to say that in spite of everything I support the LDS amendment, because it seems to me that the moment we decriminalized prostitution, we have in some ways agreed that this is not a crime, where forced offering begins and where something starts for whom the conviction is worth a fine of 50,000 to 100,000 dollars, but for me it is a matter of personal judgment. For anyone who has a negative attitude toward prostitution, any hint at prostitution will be insidious and unacceptable. For someone who doesn't have such a very negative attitude, it's going to be different. I have a lot of reservations about prostitution myself, because I consider prostitution to be a form of violence against an individual, and I have also joined a very large pan-European action, which has called the organizers of the World Cup to attention just because, according to non-governmental organisations, it is possible to count that some 60,000 people, especially women, will be involved in forced prostitution, and FIFA has been very slow to some initiatives, but it is true that the football championship will take place in a country that has legalised prostitution. The problem is to determine what is forced and what is voluntary prostitution. I have explained this in order to say that I may belong in the circle of those who do not know how big it is, those who think that prostitution is an phenomenon that I cannot say is the oldest trade and accept it; but I am one of those who think that society should, through concrete measures, be limited and not encouraged, but that means that I am also one of those who think that it is not only those who offer wallpaper, but also those who accept it. This is where this very problem begins, which I am talking about, is that intrusiveness and judgment about what is intrusive and when it is intrusive, very personal judgment, because now we leave aside whether such intrusive offers can only be offered by men, or whether such intrusive offering of sex services can also be given to women. There would be a lot of things to say when someone is offered, but it's not about prostitution, and we're very tolerant of it, and whoever's offering it can be very distracting, but it won't be punished with a fine of 50,000 to 100,000 tolars. Where I especially see this problem, that I may find it impervious to offer sexual services in the media for a hot phone, but it's not, you see, it bothers me. It is simply a whole series of things, what bothers someone, what bothers someone, but we move in an area that is strongly left to personal judgment, to moral values, and we do not have to deal with legal categories. However, what is particularly important, and I remind you of this, is that the offences referred to in this Article are not only decided by the police as a criminal body, but are also left to the municipal authorities. Here, however, I think that the concerns that speak of a rapid procedure or something else are justified, and thus I predict that both LDS amendments will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u81	Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. As far as the second amendment is concerned, I think it would be better if the amendment were written in such a way that the second paragraph of Article 7 is deleted, because I have my own doubts as to what it means to argue and yell at the official person. This is a very vague concept and subjectively conditioned. In practice, this may even mean that you will not be able to say anything to an official, but that an official will always act from this position of official. I don't think that was the point, but it could be understood that way. However, as far as the first amendment is concerned, I would like to say that I am, in fact, surprised or not, that the LDS has proposed to delete the obsessive way of offering sexual services. Some of you wonder what that means. Today, we are increasingly witnessing violence in our society. When I was a kid, I can tell you that we didn't lock houses in the countryside when we went out into the fields. We just left the house open, and when we got home, everything was just like we left it. To deal with the problem of having sex in a public place or exhibiting exhibitionism or offering sexual services, of course, this was not the case. And if this is happening more and more today, then it is only right that the appropriate mechanisms try to prevent it. If people were like they were supposed to be, they wouldn't need a lot of marriage at all. As this is no longer the case, we, of course, have to record our mutual standards of conduct in more and more laws. What is a violent offer of sexual service? So again, it can be a very stretching and indeterminate concept. However, we can read many times in some magazines - and I will now say it as is in practice understood - how some women in jobs do not hope to be harassed, even in this direction. I would understand that this opens up some possibility and that even through the law it helps the weaker sex in our society, if that is the case. And to talk about the fact that in 2003 we decriminalized prostitution and that this has to be removed from the law, I think in a way one form of diversion. While it is true that you accepted this decriminalisation of prostitution in the government coalition at that time, if this decision was true or not, we have different opinions and different views on it. Even then, I did not agree with the fact that you did this by voting in the National Assembly, as of course today I do not agree that because of what you did in 2003 and what was wrong, today you have repeated this mistake and, in your conviction, deleted it from the law. I want to end this and conclude that I will not vote for this amendment of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u83	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much. A colleague from the Social Democrats said that she was particularly disturbed by the notion of violence, the coercive behaviour of such behaviour, which could only be judged subjectively, and that this was the main problem. But there's nothing wrong with that. It is clear that subjectively, a personal assessment is made of this behaviour and that the conduct of a particular case is judged by a police officer as an official body. At times, though, some conduct is judged differently from that of the subjective. We don't have enough computers to objectively judge a behavior. We are always talking about subjective judgment, whether it is a police officer as an official, whether it is an official in administrative proceedings or whether it is a judge in judicial proceedings, etc. Even in criminal law, we have the worst form of crime or the worst form of murder, murder in a horrible way. What is this horrible way? There is also a need for a subjective assessment, but this subjective assessment of the official body, the court, the administrative authority is also subject to the possibility of challenging this decision, here and there, and nothing wrong with the fact that the matter is subject to a personal or subjective judgment. It's nothing wrong. There can be no other judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u85	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you. I didn't fit into the category of moral values of violence. It's rude, it's offensive, it's those things. But since you have already mentioned violence, your respectable colleague Kovačič, let me say that it is possible to take pictures of how difficult it was for a woman to prove violence against herself, how police officers acted when reporting public order and peace violations and how they treated women victims of violence. If it was not possible to count it as a personal judgment that was sometimes, not in many cases, or in most cases at the expense of a woman, correct me. As for pervasive behaviour, harassment in the workplace, it is an even more difficult category to prove. I don't think the last experience that the media are full of would warn, but I think it's clear enough what I'm talking about. And that is to say, these are personal opinions that are judged in some place by who is doing something. And given the general attitude, the rulebook that the Minister will issue for this action can help a police officer, but ultimately the structure of the personality remains the way it is. What I would like to say about intrusive sexual services is a purely specific experience from the local environment. Recently, on the Maribor City Council, we discussed the report of the Security Council and Police Administration in Maribor. And when I specifically asked if they had detected cases of street prostitution in Maribor, they told me it was not there. She's not here. The law we're implementing is talking about something that might happen. Because that's how it was explained to me: she's not, but maybe she will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u87	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Each action is likely to be assessed for the first time as a subjective act. Even when the police stop me, we assume that I have the documents, they ask me for them, and they ask me if I've had anything to drink. I say I'm not, and he subjectively estimates that I've been drinking, and he gives me a blow job. It'll prove objectively if I pee or not. Secondly, I do not understand a colleague of the Social Democrats, who says that we are actually criminalising prostitution by means of this provision of Article 7(3). I would like to read this paragraph again, which says: Whoever in a public place has sexual intercourse, displays sexual organs or offers sexual services in an intrusive way, and with these acts that I count, who is disturbed, causes unrest or harassment or harassment of people. That's what he says, someone's gonna have to see it, it's gonna bother him that someone's having sex in the park, it's gonna bother him, and he's probably gonna have to tell the police about it, and a cop is gonna have to come out of my subjective one, and it's gonna bother me that it's happening in the park, and it's gonna bother me whether it bothers me or not. If he makes an assessment, he will objectively say and punish him with the prescribed penalty. It is certainly not a matter of recriminalisation of prostitution, as has been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u89	Ma'am mag. Waste, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u90	I don't remember saying that by criminalizing prostitution again, what I was saying, I certainly didn't say that. But just as you, my dear colleague Bajc, have explained things now, it's very interesting. All of this is allowed, just seeing those who do it, not being allowed, but even when someone sees someone doing it, he has to be disturbed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u91	I conclude the debate on Article 7. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the NS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Yes, Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u92	I am listening to the debate so far, and I am surprised how we want to become a Puritan country through strange ways, which, by means of coercive means, wants to force the law into the eyes of these citizens of Slovenia and make the country a better place. The same is true for Article 9, which deals with something that is not problematic in the Slovenian space at all. So, I don't know where the idea, desire, intention is to find the beggars as one of those actors, the part of the society that belongs in this law, the law on public order and peace. I don't know if he has any analytical data for this, whether he has any basis in the actions he's done in the width of this event, or if he's doing it just because he's taking a look or a desire to make it look as accurate as possible in this legislation or to capture all social groups. Previously, colleague Majda Potrat spoke about the presentation of one report by the Security Council and the police in Maribor. If she also spoke of the second segment in this report to the Moroccans, which could be a typical example for the preparation of such a report and for the basis that the legislator would have obtained it in the law, it was not, in the words of the said beggars, as a deviant, as a problematic social group that would have been specifically addressed in such reports, where, in my view, at least the first place was to create a basis for such proposals. The picker is a very different category or the method of begging is very different. With this article, which we gave him, which is someone who in an insidious or offensive way is harassed by begging, we have caused so much doubt and so much dilemma as to what it is to pick up, that, in my opinion, the legislator did not even foresee it and is not now aware. Let someone answer me whether there is an insidious and offensive way of begging when a deaf person comes to a restaurant or a garden, gives you one souvenir, one product, where it's obviously written that he's deaf and in this way he's looking for help. So a guest will consider that this is an intervention in his peace at this table and that this is an insurmountable pick-up, and this will create a major problem in which someone has to give an subjective assessment, but this assessment should be made by a policeman or by a editor under article 29. I am appalled and imagine what such an innocent situation will actually result in - an affair that is not worthy of this country - even less valuable to the legislator who will adopt such an act. Whether that beggar or that individual who, for his own well-known reasons, will be put to some sort of kneeling wall, he will offer a hat, and that is why someone will think that it is insidious and for this society, for this city, for this street, for this environment, an offensive way of moaning. These are just a few examples, and they would be overwhelming to mention, as we might say, that this article does not provide a good enough basis for those who will act in accordance with this Article to act very convincingly. I would have already understood if this article were to be written in order to prevent the begging resulting from the forced begging, and perhaps that was even the purpose, but it has come to its full attention, and this may be a problem in some environments. I believe that in some large countries, some large cities with major social problems and a degenerate society, the problem of such begging may be. I do not believe that there is a form of forced begging in the Slovenian space that could be placed in this article, and therefore I think this is a wrong decision. Of course, reading comes for some reason, under some circumstances. Slovenia is not immune to this, Slovenia has come into another social economic environment, it has changed the social system, differences in life are increasing, in material situations is increasing and some are forced to use this form. The State should think about how, with its different policies, from social, employment, economic and all others concerned, to create the best possible conditions for prosperity in which such cases would be increasingly less and I believe that, therefore, even if such conditions of thought were necessary, it would not be necessary to transfer or transfer to paper such an article, which is particularly controversial for the reasons I said earlier. That's why I think, if anyone thought, and when I listened to the committee on the internal debate, the beggars who are just gathering in some groups, let's all think about the beggars who are here at Maximarket. I believe that this is more of a way of life or whatever, someone will now deny me that it would bother me as much as it did Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, who is crossing this area, but thinks that this is terribly insidious, I have not seen this very insidious, unless she has had some unpleasant experience, but it could probably solve it differently than that you support the law in such an article as it is written here. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy, we believe that this article is unnecessary, so it is not appropriate for us to have it in law, even less so, that such cases are handled by a municipal editor in that 29th article, if necessary, a policeman who is certainly more capable of being qualified in this case, but in general and generally, I think that this article could fall without any harm to the system or to the content of this law as a whole, so of course I am asking for the support of the other Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u93	Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Just for a moment, because this is the way my fellow Member has challenged me. It is not that it bothers me; the support of this article has also been given by those who have turned to me. And it's not about the form of life, as you said, it's about the negative behavior that some people use in this form of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u95	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I must say that I very much agree with my fellow Member in some of his statements. But every thing is not always white, it also has its gray and black sides. On my own, I separate chit-chatting from chit-chatting, which I take for granted as a way of life for which a person has made up his own mind. I have to say that I also very much like the bums in Maribor, who we all know are spending this money for the same purpose, I contribute a tolar. Last but not least, I'm not afraid of these bums, these bums, when they get enough money to buy what they need, and we all know it's usually the liter of the cheapest wine or some other drink, they spend that money. The bigger problem that we see in the Slovenian National Party is the so-called organised readings that appear. And I don't know, maybe someone's got a lot of eyes before this, but even in Maribor, even if you go through the Partizan Pass of the Fashion House or Our Lady, you'll see gypsies or gypsies lying on the street with little kids between 3 and 5 years old dragging them on the floor, and if you bring them a bun, they'll give you a wonderful hint in their weird mother tongue, if you give them a tolar, but they're very happy. And the other form of such organized begging, which is increasingly occurring, are the various virtually disabled. I will not claim that everyone is imaginary, but most, at least after good observation or if a person takes a moment of time, see - and I will speak again for Maribor, because I know him much better than Ljubljana - lie in the streets with various devices, disabled sticks, prosthetics and beggars. If you take your time at that time, wait perhaps ten, fifteen minutes to see on the horizon of the city director or police officer, you will see that this virtual disability runs faster than any of us in Parliament and far from being disabled. Such a form of begging seems insulting to me, perhaps not so pervasive, but offensive. I don't have a problem with not being able to decide what is abusive begging and what isn't. Because the offence is also defined in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia and I think there is no great doubt about what an insult is. I agree with those who say that an intrusive way can be a very broad concept and can be interpreted by many in their own way. I also agree with my predecessor, who said it could also be forceful for someone to come to the table and ask for some tolar. I agree. It's easy. But the law enforcement authorities are the ones who will then find out whether or not it was actually insurmountable. How much we trust them, but it is always up to us, individuals. And if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to sanction the recruitment in a public place, but I will say that I am separating it from the mistreatment of those who have decided on such a way of life, then it seems to me that such an amendment as we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party would also make sense for these people to be deprived of the funds collected, because it is primarily organised begging and supposed persons with disabilities. This is because, in principle, later, I don't know, at 7:00, they usually get with their boss, who collects money from them, and I don't know, after a thousand tolars of journals, because he's been lying on the street all day, and they're also getting help for this begging, just for those disabled people I've been talking about running faster than a lot of people in this Parliament. Therefore such an amendment by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u97	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'll save myself more time for another amendment, but a few words anyway. If paragraph 9 were to read like that, who in an intrusive or offensive way is harassed, is punished with 10,000 tolars, I said OK, okay. But it's not like that. It says here that someone in an intrusive way is harassed by begging, so one particular category of people is highlighted. And now they're discriminatory beggars, now it's not an act, it's a beggar. I can also be harassed in a pervasive way by someone else, let's say during political campaigns, when I'm being pushed to one side or the other, at the time of gaining agitation, let's say to what religious community, when they offer me something to buy when my aquisitor appears and so on, the nature of the act is the one that should be punished if it is already. But not just one part of our society that at some point may not be good enough for us. That is why I think that this is a characteristic sygmatisation, that this is inherent discrimination and exposure to an unnecessary category of people, when others may equally or even more abusively harass me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u99	Ma'am mag. Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you. It is indeed a stigmatization of a group of people because it was clear from the words of the advocate of the second amendment when he qualified the mother tongue of an ethnic group as a strange motherland. And then it goes on. I will certainly not support the other amendment, where it is necessary to confiscate the aids and the collected money. Then I ask if all those who gave the money will be punished because they were so stupid that they didn't see it as some very strange, some judgment worthy of action. I think it's possible to talk about harassment or begging even in the case of bums. I don't know why bums would be treated here differently just because they're asking for money in other words, or maybe it's important to encourage drinking. Or is that a good thing to give money? If someone tells you why he'll spend his money drinking it, it's acceptable. If someone's begging, it's not acceptable. We get involved in such strange things instead of thinking about how to support NGOs and those who are trying to use some concrete measures to help a group of people survive their lives. I mean the bums and their publications The Kings of the Streets, which is their free choice, whether they've been involved in this project or not. I will certainly support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, because it seems to me that stigmatising a group of people and some way of obtaining funds is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u101	Mr. Zagorac, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Very briefly. Dear colleague from the same place as me, Ambassador Magi. Majda Potrat, what you just said is, in my opinion, a very cheap political demagogy. Alone, I believe, because I consider you to be a very educated woman, a good separation of bums and those who literally make a fool of the disabled when they're sitting on the streets of Maribor. I believe you've seen them. The interesting question is, even if you look at the statistics that you like to refer to, why this number of bums and beggars in Maribor is growing so impatiently or rapidly, it is even an interesting question that we know who has been in charge of Maribor and the Maribor political scene for the last 8 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u103	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Maybe there's too many words about us getting stuck, but I think we're more or less at the same wavelength. I also think that begging is a way of life, and I don't mind. I don't mind personally. If someone has chosen such a way of life, it is entirely his personal matter, but it is not of some value to be overlooked in the law on the protection of public order and peace. We accept reading as it is, without those negative consequences. The article says, "Who in an insidious or offensive way is harassed by begging for money or other material goods." In an intrusive or offensive way. The article does not say "who begs for money and material goods", in which case this debate would be in place. But it strictly says "intrusively or offensively." That's it. And it prescribes a minimum fine. If you put it in there like a felony, then you probably have to put some valuable punishment in there, that's 10,000 tolars. And now we have to ask ourselves, who are the beggars? They're bums. Scoundrels are beggars. For they are not chauffeurs of the profession, they are beggars, bohemians, kind, impervious - we have them here in front of the house, I give them many times, not every day - and they live their way of life, they philosophie, they thank you, if you give nothing, they are kind. Then there are people with disabilities who are really disabled, and it's embarrassing for a man to see him as a cripple and ask for money there. Then you've got some other beggars who are intruding. Many of these beggars are minors who are forced to beg because someone is behind them. And you have young people who pretend to be disabled, who you see are not disabled, and who beg you in an intrusive way, and if you don't, they even insult you. This must have happened to a lot of people before, right? It is said that such harassment must be disturbing. The law prescribes a minimum fine. A police officer or an official, a clerk, has the opportunity to warn him to withdraw if he does not withdraw, punish him. And it seems to me perfectly appropriate that this part is also covered in this law. Therefore, I do not support the LDS amendment in any way, because by doing so, we would acknowledge that begging is some normal value of life that we take over as such - and is, it only says "intrusive and offensive way". This is no longer the value or normal way of life. The amendment of the Slovenian National Party seems, I would say, a little lifeless. It's hard to imagine that there was an official, for the first time, a beggar in his pocket, looking at how much he'd collected, and he'd say that he didn't put it together, but that he saved it, or that he did something the other day, or that someone gave it to him and so on. That's hard to imagine. And I also find it hard to imagine that an official would then wear those crumbs or tools, I don't know, where to put them and so on. I don't think it's lifelike. From this point of view, I would say that I would not support this pragmatic life aspect of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Franz Kangler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I cannot personally support the amendment to Article 9 under point one, nor under point two. I think it is right, as fellow Member Ljubeljšek said, that the dictatorship is well-written, "who begs in an insidious or offensive manner", and that the minimum penalty of 10 thousand tolars is prescribed. That means $10,000 if you don't pay the fine, if I'm not mistaken, it's 1 day in prison under the Act of Offences. That's the minimum penalty. After all, you've said a lot about beggars and bums here today. The difference between beggars and bums is next. It is one who does not have the means, the resources or the resources to survive and the permanent residence. The picker, however, is the one who has a permanent residence but does not have the means to survive, and in this way he is the beggar. And in our own way, it is only a permanent residence, but more or less in real life and daily we can meet on one side with a beggar or a bum. Who becomes a bum or a beggar, a respected fellow Member? No one in this given world chooses such a way of life. In such a way of life, the life of a bum or a beggar, is nurtured by society either because of personal disappointment, or because he lost his job, either because of other influences or segments that have led to any particular person. Some picks up money from passersby to buy food or clothing or the like. More or less for a drink. Almost every day I can meet in the city of Maribor, and I can decide for myself, in fact, from a way of life and because of the way they have been thrown into begging and bums, I also give a tolar, and I know very well what this is all about. Next thing you know. But I can't get past taking away their tools, especially for one simple reason. It's almost no day or week to not meet a gentleman here in front of parliament, in a parking lot selling books. Especially from him, to satisfy him, to gain and to earn something from me, I buy four books. And that's our quota. Every year after four. It is probably worth some money, but believe me, dear colleagues, it is quite wise that this gentleman here in front of Parliament in the parking lot sells books, rather than shoplifting or breaking or otherwise acquiring livelihoods. I can't support the amendment under number two. It is worrying, however, when those who have a parking lot here in front of parliament, see young people, young boys who are standing at the cash register, asking for change if they are left behind, not for giving it to them, you ask yourself why this young man, who is 20 or 25 years old, needs to stand by the cash register from morning to evening and beg all those who pay for the parking lot for some change so that he can survive that day. Some stand for alcohol, others for drugs, and others for likely or unlikely disappointment in life because circumstances, a social disaster in the family or the like, have led to the loss of a roof over the head, the loss of livelihood, and probably the loss of permanent residence, thus gaining the status of a beggar or a bum. That's why I can't support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. This amendment, proposed by the LDS and, of course, we would like to delete it, and by my colleagues from the SNS, I find it unacceptable in this case. What my colleagues have already said before me is that we are doing some of the whole science referred to in this article, which is nothing special. A simple article that says "intrusive and offensive way." I've never met an intrusive and abusive beggar before. I'm not, but I've got enough to do with these people. But here it clearly highlights, in one way or another. And believe me, whoever's insidious or offensive would definitely not have been successful at this job, definitely. And secondly, I am trying to do my best to help someone who just needs this help and begs, in one way or another. It is also in Europe, it is an integral part of the society of begging, and so it is with us, and believe me, it was, and it will be in the future, and however we adopt the law here, we will fix it, or we will somehow want to set it up differently. As far as the ban is concerned, I think this is a good place, but I also know that some of the fines in this article will simply not be. It will be rare for anyone in these cases to be able to receive the fine of these ten thousand in such a way and in a different way, because it seems to me that this will be a negligible small amount of the annual budget of the state budget. And to put an end to these amendments, I will not support either one or the other, because I simply believe that this article is correctly spelled and that it will also, at the discretion of the one who will supervise it, be successful if it can ever be implemented for the benefit of a fine of 10,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Rudolph Mohet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I've traveled all over the world myself. And I was also in one country so that I wouldn't be offended by the country where there were over 100,000 beggars in one huge city. There was a vital way of life to read. When I went to this town early this morning from the airport, I saw a lot of people who don't have an apartment, not a dress, the only thing around them. That's how they lived. So they don't have toilets, and they're standing in a circle, and they've been doing these needs that everyone in our country is doing for this very decent space that they have at their disposal. When I walked these streets, thousands and thousands of beggars walked around every tourist because they thought they would get something from him. And they were begging in a variety of ways, from the fact that some were "fictitious", but some were really physically crippled, to the fact that they were greatly abused by children in order to survive. I was young myself, and I lived in another system, where my mother also opened my eyes to society when she said, you know, son, because we don't live in luxury, but I, when I lived in the previous system, it was in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but the system was fundamentally different from the old one, because we no longer have beggars on the street. And since I lived in such a country and at such a time that there were really no beggars on the street and there was much more social care, then of course I was awkwardly surprised when I was walking as a sailor, let's say my first ride was from the River to Kotor and Bara. When I get to Italy, I get on board and see a bunch of beggars who were begging and working there, there's another image in Austria. If we have gone from a system of socialist self-government to a market system, then we must also face this phenomenon of reading somehow. The reading here in our system, as far as I can see, but of course I can't see it all, is on a market basis, and it's a pick-up tag for the person who's getting the goods on the basis of mercy for gratitude. You give him something, he says, thank you very much. This is a completely market economy. That this is indeed a market economy and that there are many varieties of beggars, as my colleague has already said before me, I can say from my experience. As a colleague of Kangler's, I left Parliament, I came to the post office and there was this group, they asked me for money, and I gave them some change. I get to the park in court, another group stops me, tells me you want money. I said I already put that in the mail. They said, wait, one pulled a cell phone out of his pocket, phoned those, and they told you, it's true. You gave me good-bye. It is said, on the one hand, that this is a terrible crisis, but on the other hand it is pure economic market orientation as it is in prostitution. There you have poor girls holding a pimp in your hands, collecting money, and they're just in this system functioning like they do. The same is true of these people who are beggars. The women with the little kids, I've seen them, they've been begging, there's a man come in the afternoon, a woman gives him all the money, he rubs him in his pocket, and he goes. In this market economy, I think, personally, if we're very hairy, much bigger, I'd say man, rape or, excuse the expression, rape with a market economy with different ads, and from my drawer to TV commercials to everything that I'm experiencing by people who, on the basis of mercy, are somehow trading gratitude in this space. It seems to me that the case is different, that only the first amendment of our parliamentary club would be good to accept, because the "allied" way is a very strange thing. In my opinion, colleague Kangler, what you were saying is that person, because I'm buying from her for a year, we've agreed up to 50 euros, and then the end, we have a market relationship, but she's intrusive, she doesn't leave you, and now I'm going to call the police on the basis of this law, and I'm going to call the police, take him, he's intrusive, punish him after the second amendment, take all the books he has there, and the money he's got for these books, it seems completely inanimate to me. From this point of view, it would be only good for the amendment to Article 1 to be accepted and the amendment to Article 2 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. Replica, colleague Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you. I completely agree with you, Comrade Mogue, and most of the time you're right. However, who is impertinent and in what way is enforceable, more or less is judged by an individual who chooses to report the person concerned. For me, the person we've been talking about is not offensive, not insidious. We've got the same quota you guys have, about 50 euros here, I'll burn those four books of his, and we'll say good-bye when we see each other. And I don't see any reason why I should be looking for help with law enforcement or anything like that to report him. I take it that way, that's how I help the beggar. But if someone is going to judge or judge that he was very insulting to him, I think it's right to warn or even punish him with a fine of 10,000 tolars. However, 10,000 tolars are such a minimum penalty that for such a particular person there must be a warning about what he is doing and how he is doing in a public place, in a public place.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has been announced for the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u114	Mr. Vice President, very briefly. We really propose deleting this article, and this debate just confirms that it should be deleted. Reading is simply not a phenomenon, a social problem that should be qualified and regulated. Not yet, and we hope not. But if it ever does, we will qualify and regulate it. Because if we qualify and regulate it now, it can happen to us that it really will become a problem. Remember when they introduced the united labour law, they also said that in order to eradicate profits from our society and our economy. And look at him, damn it, they did! And he wasn't there. So it's a purely realistic approach. Another time. I must say, I will not support the SNS amendment. These devices can also be defined very absurdly. Remember, the musician plays on the street, he's got a hat to throw in or throw money into. And this can be a tool after some interpretation, although everyone will tell you that these musicians are improving the city's pulse, making the city a real place, making some attraction out of the city, and so on. Not to go any further in absurdity, I mentioned one of these because it's really absurd, just to show what such a device can be. My colleague Rudy Mogo said that some women are begging with a child and are engendering mercy. What if someone thinks that this child is a tool for begging and he tries to take it away, and so on? I'm not saying they will, but in principle, if they read the law literally, they could. And of course, such matters do not appear to be written in laws that could be interpreted in such an absurd way. Mr. Kangler said he had a contract with this gentleman for four books. I have for two, obviously coming from some other end of Slovenia, and I am seriously considering raising this contract for at least one book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to support the first, not the second amendment for a simple reason. They're talking about the "forceful and offensive way" of begging. However, I would have tried because I had my word, to my colleague Mr Mogét, to replicate or debate. He said a lot of things exactly, but I think it's just one inaccuracies, but since he might be older, he'll be able to answer me in the replica. I think there were no beggars in the ex-wife, like you said. They were not there because the begging was criminalized, and the law in the former system prohibited them, which was why they were not there. But I've met more beggars before today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you. A replica of Comrade Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u118	As for the intrusive way, for me, excuse me, I know very little about music. Last time I stood there with one of them, and he was rambling with a harmonica, and it was awful what I was listening to, and it was really coerced that I didn't say anything else. But it wouldn't make me feel like I'd accept it, call the police, pick up his hat and harmonics, that's nonsense. On the other hand, it has to be said that, let's face it, socialism was so widespread in the previous system to the extent that indeed many people who are now forced to go to church would not have to go to church. We're in the market system. We need to be aware of that. I think it would be a good solution for us if we were more open in law than in this way. For if such an article remains, according to what is said, it will be able to bring a lot of confusion into this place, and a lot of cheap populism. Therefore, only colleagues and fellow Members would like to ask you to support the deletion of this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you. Article 9 and the amendment of two parliamentary groups, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group and the Slovenian National Party. Anybody else want to discuss this? Delivery of the Potrat, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u120	In order to avoid any misinterpretation of things, I declare that all my debates from my conscience, through my conduct and knowledge, are carried out in such a way that my statements do not come under the responsibility of the mayor of Maribor. Since the talk was about what could be insurmountable, my colleague Moze pointed out that some of us also use music to lure money out of us. And I do feel guilty in Maribor sometimes because I never did anything because my father let two of his children play in the cold, in fact I should have said, screamed at the violin, but it didn't seem to anyone to this extent problematic to warn my father that he was using his children to get money. In order not to be ascribed to repudiation only to people, as said earlier by a fellow Zagorac who speak some strange mother tongue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the two amendments to Article 9? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate by Article 17. We're moving on to Article 19. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Who wants a word? Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The amendment we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party is followed by a large number of wilds appearing in some Slovenian pearls, I will say, those camping. To raise the fine to 100,000 Slovenian tolars, we decided mainly because it is somewhere the market price of a particular camping town in a particular interesting Slovenian tourist place, and it is right for those who do not respect the law to pay the same as those who are obliged to respect this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u123	As I no longer see the desire for a debate, I conclude the debate by Article 19. We are moving on to Article 22 and I am putting an amendment to the debate of the members of the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. Who wants a word? Comrade Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! You will recall in previous discussions that I myself, as well as on behalf of the Group of Members, have defended or justified the reasons for a slightly different regulation of this area, which is dealt with in Article 22, namely in the guest establishments. First, what I would like to say in the introduction to my colleague Gantar when he discussed with one of the previous articles and when he referred to it and here I apologize to Mrs Potrata for referring to her in the article that she used the expression that it was a decriminalisation or recriminalisation of prostitution, that it was not so, but colleague Gantar mentions and argues that we impose obligations or responsibilities from parents to the country under this provision of the new Article 22. I must say, Comrade Gantar, she will not hold your claim. In everyday need, there are a number of regulations and prohibitions that set the age limit, and no one makes it clear that this brings responsibility from parents to the country. Let me mention only the law on the pouring of alcoholic beverages or the law on the transport of tobacco products. I think we've written this down in the legislation and no one has bothered to do so. In many cases, there is also a minimum age for obtaining or violating rights or obtaining benefits, and this does not mean that I take over, I will say, the state assumes the role of parents. Secondly, what I would like to say is that my colleagues and colleagues will agree with me that it is possible to draw a correlation between limiting the entry of minors into bars or access of minors to alcohol, tobacco or other substances that cause a young person to behave differently, such as this, I will say, but now subjective assessment, normally, that there is, as is said, a great correlation between the high risk of beer behaviour, violence, unprotected sexual relations, traffic and other accidents that sometimes result in injury, disability or even death. Third thing I'd like to say. With our amendment, the findings that we have received, either on the parent's working body or in previous treatments, are that it is a chora legalis. No, it's not. Exactly what we wrote in one of the paragraphs to this article is that we do not talk about chora legalis because we have said that we limit the entry of minors to 16 years of age into restaurants after 24 hours or until 5 a.m. where alcoholic beverages are brewed, without the presence of parents or their responsible persons. However, in order to enter events or venues where there is no watering of alcoholic beverages, there is no limit, it is also said that a minor under the age of 16 may come to these establishments. Or does this country know, I will say, whether this society will arrange for such events, which will be interesting for young people, after 24 hours, where alcoholic beverages are not being poured, is probably a question that everyone can ask themselves or we can all ask each other together. What I would like to say in the end, and I will say, because of this stage of my speech or the defence of this amendment, signed by the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, I call on Members and colleagues of the coalition from the Social Democratic Party, who were surprisingly detained on the committee on our proposal for the protection of minors, and to support this solution, given that we are only helping to implement some of the rules already adopted. I mentioned a few of them, the liquor ban law and stuff. Therefore, as we say, I expect more support for the adoption or final adoption of this amendment by the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Christian Janz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Article 22, which we have worked together with colleagues from the new Slovenia, is not a transfer of responsibility to the country, but it is the assistance of the country in this issue in Slovenia, which is certainly very topical. Youth, children under 26 years of age are the same as they are. Different from us and different from our fathers. We live in this time, whatever it is, but it is, and unfortunately alcohol is very early in youth. In Slovenia we know, unfortunately, it is very much to drink, we are at the European summit itself and we start drinking it very early. Very early, which has a bad effect on the further development of the human personality, etc. I'm sure there's something else that comes after alcohol that's just like a cigarette, and then there's something else that's worse. And this is an integral part of this story that is somehow occurring in modern times, not only in cities, but unfortunately in the countryside. We want with this amendment, which surprises me a little bit, that the country is deaf to this support, to try in such a way, however, a suitable way to reach this age and at this time, nightly, from midnight to five o'clock in the morning, somehow not to let minors enter without an escort into these places where a lot of things are going on, a lot of things like this and different. True, the first and responsible educators are parents. We live in a time of globalisation, at a time of severe pace, at a time when parents are bad teachers. We leave this role to the school, before kindergarten, and later we regret the street. Such is today’s time of life, that the family is very little together, perhaps a weekend, but not that, and that in fact needs more education, society and, as such, it needs a little help. It's not 50 years ago when we were working together, I don't know when they were working six or eight hours a day, but they were together this afternoon, etc. Today this is no longer the case, and unfortunately the parents of this principal and responsible role-holder transfer it to other actors, unfortunately, I also hope and hope for the help of society as such to help in part here. I know that what we all want together is to make these streets as small as possible, and these places where young people are staying, this article, and now this amendment is more than appropriate and is placed, not some way to help raise our youth as much as possible and take them through the alleyways. One day, a friend of mine told me that today, a parent who brings a child through these perilous lives, through youth, to a suitable job, to an education. You're such a winner. Unfortunately, many do not get through this path because the street also "turns" them off the road and in one case can also be the nightlife of young people up to 16 years of age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you. Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you, Chairman. A good greeting to all Members and Members and others present. I have thought a few times about the previous amendments in order to come forward, but it seemed to me that the weight of those amendments was really so small that I didn't think I needed to come forward, while I am judging this amendment to article 22, that it is very important and that we need to speak seriously at this amendment and also think seriously, and then please, if we are really trying to support it together. Although there is nothing special about the appearance of the amendment, only one ban forbids under the age of 16 to go to bars alone between 24 a.m. and 5 a.m. where alcohol is poured. I think the proposed amendment has two effects. The first is to protect young people themselves, and the second is to prevent them from endangering others. I'll start with the other one. Lately, or by chance, I'm going to say vandalism and the violence of youths, especially those who drank alcohol before, are said to be under the influence of alcohol. Recently, I was recently reunited with the Šostanjčany group, a small Slovenian town, "appreciated" where we came to be unable to go to this town market at night because we are afraid of repentant or drugged young people. I know that this amendment will not solve this problem, but it is a small piece, a small piece that can also contribute to the efforts of the National Assembly to address this issue in a very broad and broad way and to find appropriate solutions to help solve this problem. I too will stop in the face of the problem of alcoholism, which is not only a problem for young people, but it is a general problem and it is a very, very big problem for Slovenia. The consequences of alcoholism are well - known: from domestic violence to the suffering of minors, to accidents, to loss of life. And if we pull it all together, we can say that alcoholism is the one that causes one very large economic damage due to the absence of work, that causes a lot of costs to our health, etc. I also agree, on the one hand, that it is the parents who are to ensure that their children are raised in such a way that it is not necessary to adopt a law on the protection of public order and peace at all, but unfortunately we are at a time when there is no other way to adopt it by law. A lot of children do not have regulated family conditions, and parents also have very different boundaries that we set for children. Some have higher, firmer, others lower, more open. Every parent is the one who evaluates what's right for his child. But it is right that for those children without parents someone else sets limits, in a particular case in this amendment, the owners of the premises are the ones who have to take care of it, saying that they do not allow this minor to enter the liquor bar. In the end, I would only say this if we had a well-kept family, I am sure that we will also have well-kept and well-nourished children and that there will be no need for such legal provisions to be implemented at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you, Ambassador Koren. I give my word to Ambassador William Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. It was said that this amendment was very important. I agree with that, but I think we would make a very important mistake if we accepted it. By all means and by all means, I will try to prevent the adoption of such an amendment, which is scandalous to me. Let me say or repeat what someone said was about helping young people. On the contrary, it is true. In a different way, young people are helped, not by wearing restraints, but by tying them to local mass with chains. In this way, we will teach them to live free, independent and creative lives, and this is our job to do for young people. Let me tell you a few things that are indisputable to me. This amendment doesn't say anything about young people. This amendment is talking about us. About our relationship, about what we have done for young people, how we have raised them wrong, what we allow them, what we forbid them, and so on and so forth. That's really our mirror. Thank God it's a minority of those, for once, who show that they support such an amendment. It's just another stigma. Previously, we stigmatized those we call beggars, but now we want to stigmatize the young. I'm sure there won't be any help with that. Who are we who want to ban all this from them? Let me tell you, because you're referring to some research that she's been through a lot, I've looked into it. Are we the ones who look after young people in such a way that we, I would say, drink from morning to evening and set a good example in this way? Are we the ones who incite violence in a family that we want to put young people in? Are we the ones who incite violence verbally or physically? Are we the ones who incite this violence to see their young even in public? Even so, some here in this House are not ashamed to treat young people in such a way that they are "helped". All these numerous mistakes that have been read - let me read to you what the proponents are referring to, the text that says that "there are strong correlations between high-risk forms of beer behaviour, violence, unprotected sexual relations, traffic and other accidents, permanent disability and death." And they're talking about those under 16 years old. It is indicative that first they spoke of those under the age of 18 who were ordered this ban between 23 a.m. and 6 a.m., making it even worse for them at first. Many critics have narrowed down their ambitions, but the chalk, "habitus...", has remained the same, paternalistic. A small "patri familiasi" who would like to start some terror with their values over the younger. But are those under the age of 16 typical of beer behavior? No, no research has shown that. Are those young people who cause the most violence in society 14- and 15-year-olds? Are those who practice the most unprotected sexual relations drunk, 13-year-olds? Where did you get all this nonsense?Oh, my God! This is really bullshit, I think. And those 13- and 14-year-olds don't cause car accidents under the influence of alcohol. They don't have cars, they don't have exams. It can happen sometimes, but just if it did happen, it would confirm the rule that it's not true what you're saying. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. You've come into an absurd situation. Young people who are not supposed to go to the park one minute after 24.00 p.m. because it's wrong and I don't know what else, they can have sex in front of parliament 15 minutes earlier, and that's not punished! That's what you support! Yeah, you can't understand that with some common sense! Young people can also go after 24.00 p.m. to places where there are different events, if parents are with them - parents who may practice prostitution, pornography, and so on! Yeah, but we can go with them, of course! Yeah, that means that! I'm giving absurd cases because I'd like to blow a fog out of your face. They can go with their parents who showed their sex organs just before they entered this place, where there's something strange about the body. That's what we allow with this law! All of this is admissible. Only young people can be tied up at home, and we can do anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you. Just a warning or an introduction. Mr Koren, I can only give you the floor to debate, and only later, when you come in line, given that you have not been appointed in the context of the debate by Comrade Rezman. We continue the discussion on the basis of the list of applicants. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that I actually understand the intention of the proposer of this amendment, and I guess it wouldn't just show him to be rejected with his left hand. In doing so, however, I should point out that the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Alcohol, the so-called Kebra Act, is very clear that the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages and beverages to which alcohol has been added, even to persons under 18 years of age, even under the 18-year amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and the NSI. This sale and offer are prohibited even during the daytime, says not only at night between 24:00 and 5 a.m., and then this Kebra law also provides for control over who controls compliance with this law, including the police, and the market inspectorate also supervises the sale of these persons under 18 years of age. And then, in one paragraph, it says that this inspectorate also controls the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages in shops, even in shops, to persons who are reasonably expected to be forwarded to persons under 18 years of age. It also means that those who are full - grown come to buy alcoholic beverages, and somehow we assume that this alcoholic drink will be in the hands of minors. This too is essentially regulated by this law. I would therefore say that this amendment here would mean some kind of hyperregulation in law, and therefore we know that it is usually its achievement, i.e. the achievement of such legal hyperregulation is usually in the opposite proportion when it comes to the effect of such a type of law. We are convinced that the already so-called Kebra Law solves this problem. Of course, it does not solve the problem of getting into places where alcoholic beverages are flowing, and some of you have said that there are also many things going on. However, I have to say that, after some belief, I am a Liberal Democratic, and that although I somehow feel that this problem should be grabbed and solved somewhere, I am not sure that in this way that the owner, the entrepreneur, will now be responsible to him for allowing such a minor to enter, for example, parents would not be responsible for this. Therefore, I do not think that this amendment is to this extent fragmented and appropriate to be supported in such a form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that this amendment should be thrown out with its left and right hand and also with its head, and I continue in the direction that my colleague Rezman was talking about. In fact, friends say that it is a matter of assistance, that it is not a form of coercion or interference with the rights of parents regarding the upbringing of children, etc. But the state always says that it always helps because it comes from the assumption and you come from the assumption that then the country with your amendment knows best and knows better than parents what is good for parents and their children. And this is the wrong approach and the wrong starting point for such an amendment. It has been said that it is prohibited for minors to pour alcoholic beverages 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. And why, then, is there even such a formulation that is unnecessary? Therefore, I think that the result of such an amendment, if adopted, would be just some certain unintended consequence and an unwitting effect that these groups of people will be forced into places where they will not really have any control, control and so on, and will in fact be able to do even worse. That is why such an amendment is bad and must not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you. We continue the debate. Please, if the Members present are so observant and allow the only word I will call to the speech. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian National Party, we are not sure that the proposed amendment by the Slovenian People's Party is scandalous. An amendment worth studying, examining, and perhaps even considering. Someone was talking about this amendment being scandalous and it all depends on parenting. If each of us who are parents were able to achieve the maximum education or the level of education, what's right and wrong, in a certain society, in a particular country, then believe that we wouldn't be sitting here either, because we wouldn't have anything to accept. We wouldn't need marriages because we'd all be raised. And someone also said what we forbid. With this amendment, we forbid only alcohol to young people, we do not prohibit them from sports, education, education, love, we forbid them only alcohol. And there's someone, and now I'm gonna say a little joke, a little bit, really, comparing alcohol to sex. Sex has been shown to have no negative psychological effects, even if it is healthy, between a man and a woman. He's got alcohol. Take this for a joke, a little for real. I agree with those who say it's already arranged somewhere. It is true that it is arranged, but given how some of the famous and singing laws of Kebra are taken into account in this society, I must say that it is better to deal with this once again and that something may be taken into account. But the question of the ruling coalition is certainly interesting and I hope that you will arrange it as soon as possible: Why does the inn in Slovenia cost 2 dcl of thick juice less or more than a large beer, say? Interesting question. We used to have a rumble. And I believe someone qualified beer as food, I'll say, and then a glass of wine, and that could be for someone else's food. And the other thing is, I agree with those who say that alcoholism and alcoholism are a problem, but you know, there is a very big problem in this country, and especially among young people, there is drugs. I hope that we will meet as soon as possible with some law restricting the use of drugs. Last but not least, I will say that this government has not yet arranged this, it supports a so-called methadone therapy, which is no different than that the state pays addicts to become addicts in some other way. When they get their dose, they get in the car and, under the influence of these psycho-fuels, they drive home and they're also threatening traffic. And someone in front of me said that these teenagers don't put traffic in danger. I agree, they don't have a driver's license, they don't have cars. But they do have low-cubic engines, like scooters. Not until the last two days ago, take a look at the dolly bypass, and you'll see that they have scooters and that even under the influence of alcohol, these scooters drive and cause fatalities. In the Slovenian National Party, we will of course support this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you. Member Franz Kangler has been informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I have to come by myself, although I have little time left, and I must say that so much scandalous nonsense about this amendment as I have heard from a previous fellow Member, I can hardly believe it. If I read the second paragraph correctly, persons under the age of 16 are prohibited from entering and retaining without the assistance of parents, foster parents and caregivers at catering establishments and at alcoholic beverages events between 24 a.m. and 5 a.m. Then here we are discussing and saying that parents should assume this obligation and that even the obligation of a 14-year-old or 15-year-old should be assumed by his parents that, according to the local word, he will not be in a "curricular" after midnight or before midnight. This allows him, if we accept this amendment, the owner of this establishment, which deals in one way or another with this activity, to ensure that minors or children under 16 years of age do not enter such restaurants. That's the problem. We're talking about getting in. However, given that my time is running out, I would ask the government representative to identify himself before this amendment to tell us whether they oppose or agree with this amendment and what they see the problem of giving us an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you. The Government may, at any time during the debate on individual amendments, be included in the debate. You have 30 minutes at your disposal, and of course we can't force you to do that. And we continue with the list of applicants. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I have already advocated this amendment on the board, which is a little different now. I still think that parents should be involved also formally and legally in this amendment. It is essential that in time, it is said in the time of minors under 16 years of age, where they are entering adult life, but they are not yet mature, I think it is clear to everyone that they are trying to involve parents even after formal pay, if that is possible. I think it is necessary during this period to establish this triangle between society, minors and the family or parents, and thus try to regulate the smoothest possible transition to a mature period. That is why I will say, I regret that this has now come to an end, unfortunately this will be regulated, as previously proposed in the first option with some kind of financial penalty, which I think would also encourage communication in one way or another. However, I am disturbed by the debate of some experts in the field of sociology, who have not reflected on the current situation of minors in Slovenia, who have been raised according to the assumption that we are still listening to, we see that permissive education has fallen completely on the exam. And professionally, regardless of the world’s mental belief, there are completely different principles in place to help young people mature, as they say, and to take responsibility for their actions. And I think that's all this amendment is about. We know that until a person is mature, and even when he is mature, sometimes he does what is best for him, he does what is best for him. I think that this amendment simply reduces the opportunity that can be harmful to minors and absolutely nothing else, and we are as a state and as a national assembly at the legislative level that we are able to do so, and we have the power to do so. Going into the implementation of the legislation that has already been adopted, that is another thing. I myself agree that it is possible that such strict legislation has been adopted in the past that it is impossible to implement. And now it makes no sense to refer to such legislation. If this amendment were not implemented and if this amendment had been adopted, it would not have been implemented, then this debate is also totally unrelated. I'm just guessing we'll start sticking to the law once we've accepted it. But it is obvious that, if not for this debate today, it would not go in this direction as it does, czech, the ban on alcohol even 24 hours a day does not need any corrections anywhere, the matter is settled. That is why I support the amendment myself, although I do not think it will be accepted. But he will not be accepted on behalf of some false freedom. I think we can also look at yesterday's incomes that point in some direction that is not healthy. If we continue to support this, we will want what we sow. I wouldn't be surprised if this young man would take us home at the time of our age and then euthanize us without a problem. If all is permitted, they understand that there is no limit, that is basic philosophy, then we are not surprised if we experience it on our own. I think it's such a small limit that it's not worth having to question this amendment. As I said, all that says in here is that young people under 16 are less likely to be harmful to them, from midnight on until 5 a.m. because most sleeps. However, in order for this amendment to cause young people to stumble everywhere else, of course, it is not the subject of this law, according to my assessment. Secondly, if it is tripping, it is already on its way and we should look at what can be done in this area with other measures. For places where the state guarantees by its permission to operate within the framework of the legislation, it also has the right and authority to regulate order in or in these public premises. I think we are competent to impose certain restrictions, but of course not outside these premises. However, I do not believe in any way, as I have already said, that such an amendment would have such an effect that young people would then hang out somewhere without control. If I understand what Mr Gantar said earlier, it would be better to do bad things under control than to do them somewhere maybe without control, which I cannot attach, because if we allow this in areas and spaces that are in some way guaranteed by the state, as I have said before, then I think this is a wrong approach. I think it's appropriate to punish the legal person who violates the law. That's normal. I hope that the legislation already in force will start to be implemented a little more intensively, I appeal here to the government and to all its services, as well as, of course, if this amendment is adopted to be implemented. We'll see, I'm sure it'll work in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you, you. To the word I invite the apostle Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Respectable. I was involved when my colleague Zagorac began to talk about someone obviously discussing this amendment as scandalous and a solution. I must say, although our Group is unlikely to support it or not to sign under it that the value of the amendment is certainly that it begins or opens up very serious questions of education and sociology, sociological issues. I think our sociological science could offer a little bit more to date. I'm aware that every prohibition has a negative side. However, when I think about it, I wonder if those who say it is scandalous, then I must note that in the European Union countries they have scandalous regimes or even more scandalous arrangements regarding the access of minors, deeply underage, to alcohol. And perhaps Slovenian sociological science can offer some twinning program for these countries to teach and emancipate these countries. It is, however, that in those countries where this youth thinks and experiences that the most, as they say in slang, cool lives that is the coolest, there are similar restrictions or slightly more drastic restrictions. And in front of us on the basis of indoctrination of society, it's sinful, backward, puritanic, and I don't even know what to think about and talk about. I think it is wrong that Slovenian sociological science, if it is behind it, I do not know if it is behind it, does not contribute to the development of Slovenian society in this way. And look, I have made my own decision how, but I must say that these thoughts that come out here seem very necessary, serious and also parliamentary debates worth thinking about. And I don't know that even though the wounds of the Slovenians are alcoholism, we have to admit that we see nothing every day as many people who have fallen from alcohol. And young people. I'm modestly assuming, but probably medicine and psychology knows more about it than you let go of it uncontrollably before you fail as a person. Perhaps there are some functional links to when you were faced with alcoholism, and I also think it is true that a young person or child is more aware of the harmful consequences than a slightly more mature and a little more mature. And one more thing. Do you think a young man, a child under the age of 16, must, for example, now that this is a limit, live out all his youth to know everything, have access to everything. And our youth is basically so much less romantic in their lives than it was in our romance. I have to be perfectly honest that when it wasn't, I don't advocate banning anything, anything that could be on the cover of magazines or anything, but that when these naked bodies weren't so good that we thought it was better if you saw any bikinis or anything. I have to say, it's in my memory that everything was better back then. I think that if, in fact, some of the measures were used to leave this youth for older years of age to experience certain things, to feel better in life, to actually remember with some nostalgia what we remember, which we have not yet been allowed to do; in fact, these are the most beautiful memories of this thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u143	Comrade Jerovšek, if you'll excuse me. I believe that all the Members and Members present are interested in your youth, but allow us to touch the content of the amendment that is before us. Please stick to the contents of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u144	I, my fellow vice president, don't really know how you feel I've drifted away. So a person explains some of the personal experiences involved. So once again, I don't think it's a scandalous suggestion, and in fact it is necessary to think deeply about how to decide, but even though I know that this is related to it, I am sure that in these types too many would be happy to do so if society were not so indoctrated that all of this is extremely conservative, backward, etc. But let the profession tell you whether it's backward, whether it's beneficial, or whether it has beneficial consequences. I say again: I am aware that in life there must be limits to certain limits, and the thresholds that need to be crossed over over over time, not to be thrown into the water as a baby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u145	Again, thank you for sharing your youth with us. And we are continuing the debate. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Far from me thinking this amendment is scandalous. I think he is well-intentioned that the applicants want to improve with this amendment, I would say some problematic situation concerning minors, but I am still in a great dilemma about how to define myself until this amendment. This dilemma we have since the first proposal, which was proposed informally, I would say, which was even tougher, stricter, restrictive, I would say, to what we have today on the table. I understand the proponents, because we all have children, and we all want to do everything we can for these kids to do what's best for them. However, I do not think that this is the right way to solve the problems that cause them elsewhere. Maybe even because I wasn't having these problems when I was young, my children didn't even have that problem. The problem I see is in the family, it's in education. But it's a danger to the environment. It says, on one side of the family, on the other side of the environment. The approach can be very liberal on the one hand and very conservative on the other. And in these two spheres, there's education. Both sides are good, but in this spectrum there is education, which begins in the family, in the parents, and is a key education from a child’s first year to adulthood, as well as some good parental advice for adult children. In addition to education, there is also an environment in which a minor lives, which starts in kindergarten, school, sports societies, cultural societies where he participates. The character and upbringing of the child are formed everywhere. I'm sure you can't replace this with any law. By law, you can influence the environment. And we already have one law here concerning minors - a ban on pouring alcoholic beverages to minors. The next problem is how this law is implemented in practice and the third time what is the control over the implementation of this law. And that's where the inspection takes place. I think we should direct, not with some amendments to this law on offences, but that we should direct our activities to implementation, to inspection and to complement those laws, regulations and sanctions there with amendments. That's what needs to be done. If I touch this amendment specifically now, it is not clear to me and it does not seem to me that it is very happy, because in the second paragraph it says that a young person under 16 can go - because they are children - to a restaurant accompanied by adults, to places where alcohol is poured. This drink cannot be obtained if it is strictly implemented by a law prohibiting the pouring of alcoholic beverages. And that's okay. However, it is not appropriate then for the third paragraph to allow this minor child, who is indeed a child, to enter the inn facilities and events without the accompanying parents, which I do not understand. You can buy a drink before 24 hours ago and take a drink to that party, probably, or someone else will buy it. Well, otherwise, this is linked to whether the law of watering and selling drinks to minors is respected. I don't know if this law also speaks of selling drinks to minors, if not, then it should be supplemented. The law that minors should not be sold a drink. And it would be understandable to me that in the third paragraph, it would say that children under the age of 16 are allowed to enter events and restaurants only in the presence of parents or adults, if they are not already prohibited. Because I don't know what a kid can do 16 or 15 at two or three in the morning. I can't imagine what kind of family this is so that a kid like that can go to events like this. That is why I say that this dilemma is very present with me how to define it. I do not know how colleagues in our parliamentary group will define themselves, but I do see the well-intention of this amendment, but I do not think that it is the right way to solve the problem and that it is necessary to complement, amend or act in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Well, this amendment will certainly not improve the troubled situation of young, minors, as someone has expressed hope in an empty up. They are not our main problem, although we have many problems, but most of all I reject the constant suspicion of young people, so they are the ones who threaten us, what will happen to us. Someone even talked about it, and later I'm going to talk about how they're going to put us somewhere; our young people are this, not from where else imported that someone would set us up, these are our young people. Another time. Scandalous now is the most mentioned term to put in the last, and I really think some things are scandalous. Scandalosen is mainly a habitus, not the very diction of this amendment, which I will also read later to see how pointless it is. And the scandalous thing is that some people resent it. The philosophy of "patra familis" from Roman law, which you know what he could have done, "pater familias". And today some would have a little updated "patre familiase" in our society. We need to find that some intellectual cannons don't carry very far, at least not in this case. What's going on? What's going on? They haven't been able to link any of the articles together. And they don't notice the illogicality I've been trying to talk about. At the same time, I am having fun when some uneducated people try to determine their upbringing. They're just doing it again, and I've said it once before, as if those who know they don't understand themselves are replacing their misunderstandings by trying to explain to others what this is all about. But you can't do that, you know! It just doesn't work. It has even been mentioned that the end of permissive education, that this permissive education has ruined everything, was used the term "completely" that this has completely failed. Yeah, well, then it's just left to completely reverse, to go into pure repression and have young people really on the chain. But we won't all support it. Some people don't understand that we're not even talking about drinking alcohol. This amendment doesn't say anything in a single letter, so we have another law talking about drinking alcohol and selling. This amendment is a 24-hour restraining order. Nothing forbids drinking before or in the morning or in the afternoon and so on. In short, some have failed to link the meaning of their words, the thoughts they have written down, and now they do not understand that we are scandalising over this. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you. Given the fact that we have a few more panellists to report, I will read them in an orderly fashion. The debate will be followed by a discussion by Mr Boštjan Zagorec, followed by Mr Sok, Member of Parliament, Mr Horvat, Mr Veršnik, Mr Branko Marinič and Mr Petan, after which a representative of the government will submit his proposed amendment to the 22nd article at the end of the discussion. As it is said, the Ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'd like to ask the forerunners not to judge people by themselves. That's the priority everyone needs to have. When the reference was made to "pater familyias" - it is true, but on this basis a certain education is being built forward. This was the basis that Roman law gave further to the right. After all, a few words about education are raised by the country. You have to agree with me and we have already supported some of these meaningless educational laws in this national assembly. The fact that someone doesn't understand the contents of the amendment is probably because one of my predecessors said it was difficult. For some, yes, for others scandalous, but the content is as it is, and the matter of interpretation, as with the law, is how it will be implemented and how someone understands it. When someone says a ban or how a minor can be allowed to enter a restaurant after 10 p.m. The Bowling Center also has its own inn and no matter what some think about raising themselves, I will gladly allow the child to engage in sports. But I won't let him drink alcohol. And the only thing I agree with my predecessor is that we already have this arranged, in a single law - a ban on drinking alcohol. I agree, but apparently, in this country, at least the previous experience of the former authorities is such that this law has not been implemented. And I say, better written than once, even for upbringing, even for those who are more difficult to understand, because some amendments are difficult. Of course, I'd be happy to support this amendment, but it bothers me that some people want to make young people for criminals on the basis of this amendment. This amendment, as I have already said, prohibits them from doing anything except alcohol or pouring alcohol, and enters in the inn to children, not to adolescents, to children - 16 years ago we are talking about children. And when someone said young people weren't the biggest problem. I agree, they are not the biggest, but they must be the most valued problem in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you. Here's the Replica. Here you go. 8 seconds is available. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u152	In these few seconds, there's enough time to say that the amendment doesn't talk about it. Don't talk about whether young people should come or not. He forbids them to enter bars.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Since Nova Slovenije is a co-signatory and a proponent, I would also like to respond appropriately in this place and, in fact, I myself think that it is difficult for other Members to keep a figure of education for themselves in such a fact. That seems inappropriate to me, and that's not how you talk in Parliament, it's really not what you say. But as for the problem that lies ahead. Look, the police reports that are available every year say that youth crime is on the rise and that the perpetrators are the perpetrators of this crime from year to year. I would expect, as my colleague Jerovšek has already said, to become a Slovenian sociological science, as well as by sociologists in this National Assembly, to make some discourse and show where the problems are and how to solve these problems in Slovenian society. The words with both hands and the head need to reject this amendment is too small. That with my hands, I believe, it's easy to do, but how to do it with my head, and I don't know if we are aware that these are major problems and that, in fact, the growth of those minors who are dealing with drugs is increasing from year to year. And we all know that age category 15, 16, 17 is the most impressive and critical in this regard. So, what do you do? Members discussed, I listened to this debate on the committee, even here today. Everybody says, "Yes, something has to be done, but this isn't the right place, here in this place, no, we already have it arranged." We've already arranged it, but obviously in the way we've arranged it, it's not enough. To stigmatize young people with this amendment, I don't understand why. If so, other restrictions on young people should be removed from the running lane. What does this amendment say? That children under the age of 16 are forbidden to enter a public place after 24 hours. Some say that drinking alcohol is already forbidden under another law, but that it is somehow played out, because an elder can buy it to the younger one without buying it himself, conveying it, etc. This amendment, however, also has additional criteria that are sharpening in this area. He says he can't be in a bar without his parents around. And I especially understand this amendment as well as some kind of help to parents. True, parents are responsible for the upbringing of their children, fearful are those who are the first to answer for their children, but are often powerless in this environment in which we all find ourselves together; they are powerless, but children are under pressure, by blackmailing they reach their own. But if we had such a standard, you would personally help me to say to my daughter, "You know what, you're not 16 years old, look, you can't go to this place. You can't go because they're already going to be the owner of a place that won't let you in." And that would be, I would say, a very useful legal norm in the light of this owner's insurance. So not only does he have a ban on not giving him an alcoholic drink, but he can't enter the bar after 24 hours. So, think about it, of course I wouldn't treat this as our fellow Member here from the party DeSUS. It is true that everything young people do is the responsibility of the elderly, since in fact they sell alcohol and everything else to older ones. Young people are watching us, both politicians and mayors, as well as all those who represent this society in public life. And just as we all act together, so young people feel it, and they watch it very much, and they watch us when we don't think they see us. We'll do something tomorrow. I think it's too late. I think we should start today. Some examples, as they were in the past, are inappropriate for today’s occasion, for it is necessary to realize that every time he writes his books, it was so in Roman times, again in the Middle Ages and again today is different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government. We are in an extremely difficult moment of Slovenian history, we are in a difficult situation when we look at our young generation. In a way, I am calling on all Members of Parliament and Members to have only a little more money, a little bit more to say back when it comes to the adoption of legal provisions, which should only represent some framework to protect this young generation. In fact, I speak from experience. We all know, that's what sociological science and statistics are telling us, that alcohol and drugs are already coming to us in primary, secondary school. If I ask the principals, the professors, the teachers, everyone says I have my hands tied, there's nothing I can do. I'm not talking about the youth crisis and that young people are the problem today - no! But I can say with all certainty and I am sure that the family is in crisis today; and at this point I agree with many who have debated that the beginning of education and the core of education is right in the family. I'm sure the parents must, so the father and the mother, also know the children's words, "No," in the sign of love for their children, but not always say, "Yes, yes, yes!" And all that our children ask us to do, because the environment affects them or is forcing them to do so, we allow them to do so. And then we're where we are. And Lip and the other 100 hidden Lips are happening to us, and we're not doing anything, neither is this national council. And it looks like we're not getting enough energy together, enough money to specifically close the entrance to the guesthouses to young people in the event of this amendment. It is true that the second paragraph does not speak of the pouring of alcoholic beverages, but speaks of this third paragraph, allow me to read it: "The restriction in the preceding paragraph of this Article does not apply to in-house establishments and events where purely non-alcoholic beverages are poured." So the first is for those who also drink alcoholic beverages. True, we have a law banning the sale of alcoholic beverages to young people, and here we also have a problem that I have already ordered today - there is no control, the law is not implemented. And then why is it such a terrible problem to accept this amendment, which would be a compliment to the law I had previously spoken of, the law, on the prohibition of selling alcoholic beverages to young people? That is why I call on Members and Members to consider this amendment. I think it does no harm to Slovenian society, Slovenian youth, I am firmly convinced of this and therefore I will support this amendment, which we have drafted together with colleagues from the People's Party, and I hope that at least some of you will follow us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Look, I'm looking at the problem of Article 22 that was created by the reason that we were too open, too liberally looking at our society's education, that we were practically neglecting education, and if there is no education in the family, then in those most critical years 15, 16 years things are actually unpredictable, inappropriate and fatal. I see the problem in my parents. After all, parents are educators and some parents are incapable, some have no time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u159	Comrade Versnik, if you'll excuse me. Comrade Rezman, you can. Please allow the National Assembly to carry out its work. Thanks, buddy Rezman. Go ahead, Comrade Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u160	They simply do not have time to devote to their children’s upbringing, and today we witness such a state. Of course, the next thing mentioned here today is inspection services or controls. We can also adopt such good laws if there is no proper control, there is no guarantee that these, for example, good laws in life will be enforced as we have, with as much intent as we have written and put into use. I personally view this article as a proposal that actually helps those parents, those who themselves cannot or are no longer in a position to control their youth. That's what I'd say. The extra head doesn't hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you, you. Member Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your word. Respectable present. When this amendment is considered and compared to Article 22, some of the dilemmas and fundamental issues arise to me. In my personal opinion, this is a dilemma around education and education, where it is difficult to find a gap between education and education, but of course it is possible to draw a clear line, where there is a boundary of education for which someone is responsible, and where. Of course, children are victims of such or other acts of violence, which, in the proposed amendment, I am fully satisfied with the concern of the proposers that they take a step forward in this area. However, once I have identified the content of Article 22 of the draft law on the protection of public order and peace, it seems to me that this is unnecessary, although, I stress once again, I understand this concern of those who have just tabled this amendment. However, order in the inn, for which on the one hand the owners or tenants are responsible, and on the other hand those who are staying in this place. I am sure that if, as some of my predecessors have already determined today, they have strictly taken care to comply with all the legislation that is in force and would only be necessary, I will say, strictly comply, perhaps that would not be necessary! Therefore, it is not necessary to touch on these issues around enlargement here in this debate, whether it is appropriate to accept such an amendment or not. My belief is that the content of Article 22 is clear enough, precise enough. However, what is proposed in the amendment is in other provisions, in other laws, which must be strictly respected by those responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. In Lipe's case, a lot of criticism has dropped on the state authorities, and I don't know who else they haven't done anything about it. What would you do? Cops out there would line up in front of the place and make sure that that stampede didn't happen the way it did. The main problem was that there were minors there. That was the basic problem, that's all. And no parents! Now the question is why they are, or why they are, or why they are, the category of minors. Why didn't they just grow up? Apparently, they don't have anything yet that adults have. I'm not going to go into what all of this is, I'm going to sum it up in words -- psychophysical properties: probably less of a physical problem, but more of a mental nature -- probably. But if it is scandalous that young people should not do everything as adults - then why do we still have a category of minors? Let's stop her, and let's all be adults! Let's all be adults, from kindergarten on, say, we're all adults, and we can do it, and it won't be a scandal if minors aren't allowed anywhere. On the other hand, when we say that parents should be brought up at home — yes, of course, what do parents do at home? What are they doing home? Yeah, well, please, if they can't have a word, then why are parents responsible for the upbringing? Without a word, there's simply no education. And how to raise them if they have no influence. On the other hand, the word "no" is sometimes included in this education. Just for "I" to say it doesn't take any education, it's not any kind of education. And the next point is that parents are responsible for minors. Yeah, what if they can't say anything? They can't have any influence, they can't say no, and then what else can they do? Yeah, then what are they responsible for? That's why I made that perverted claim earlier that we should abolish the category of minors if parents can't do anything about it. Then there's no more category of minors, but we're all adults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you. Delivery of the Potrat, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u166	At one of the previous meetings, I asked the Member State what it would do to prevent similar tragedies that had taken place before Lipa. Otherwise, I would not discuss this amendment if not many of these cases were mentioned. But what is interesting about all of this is that so far the only measure we can detect and discuss is that we should adopt an amendment to prohibit young people from entering bars. So first, we'll start with young people, then we'll settle adults and tell them what's acceptable and unacceptable. Tragedy happened outside the bar. And it should be asked what was done first for such a crowd to be gathered there, and at what time did it gather, so that they would have a proper picture. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. When we discussed transport safety in Slovenia in the previous term, I advocated zero levels of blood alcohol in the drivers. And then I was ridiculed, and there was a lot more to it, and the economic damage to Slovenian winemaking was meant to do, and I don't know what else, and the main argument was that the conduct with the law could not be affected. And indeed, I am convinced that even the way young people behave, the law in this way cannot be affected, because in the 1960s in Celje, in high school, I experienced the "horo legalis" that they introduced because suicide among young people has increased. Suicide didn't go down, but after a while there was no more talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I listened to this debate. I have to deal with these things for exactly 30 years, but not in a deviant way. Therefore, I would like to say that it would be very good for this law, especially when it comes to the younger generation, for us Members to be really relaxed, patient and also have a great deal of tolerance. What am I trying to say? I was encouraged to do so by three discussions back when it came to the family crisis. Obviously, this is also a crisis of some values, and I will not sell out further, but then the lessons followed were how parents should raise their children. There have been some specific guidelines on how to raise their children. All statistics since 1990 show, not just for young people, that deviant phenomena, criminal acts and so on are on the rise. In general, this segment is in society as such, obviously also due to mutual relations, intolerance, other elements in growth. And that the burden and all the weight and consequences of this through this law be borne by young people - of course, I am entirely on the other side. First, we, the elderly, clean up before our own threshold and create social, otherwise broader conditions such that young people in those families who have such or other problems will feel differently than they do today. And this is where we Members take our competence and interference. And here, under other laws, in order to establish these conditions, let us set our name, our values, and so on, not to mention. Once again, the easiest thing to say in a parable or in a thought: every nut is round, but all round is not nuts. And here too, unfortunately, we have to look at it that way. By banning someone from entering this particular case into the bar, we also work two kinds of young and old. He can come to the bar with his parents, and I won't overdo it, and he can, in my opinion, get drunk, I don't know what he's doing, and he can't do it himself. This is an inequality and therefore this amendment is mistaken in my opinion and should remain in the law as it is written.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I would say myself, to some extent to a certain extent, I agree with my forerunner who said, but who is this national assembly, to tell parents or those who have this happiness in life, that we can raise our children, who will tell us how to raise them. I have also said this in one of my previous implementations, this National Assembly in this composition has adopted some such laws that require us to raise our children. Maybe it's too direct for us how to do it, the believer and things like that, but it's not the subject of this amendment, so I'm not going to talk about it. Someone said before me that the subject of this amendment is not alcohol and alcoholism, but now we've spent about an hour talking only about alcohol and alcoholism in young people. Then the subject is also the alcohol of this amendment. But when I mentioned that the amendment was difficult and needed to be understood, and when the Lip case was mentioned, I must say that the fourth paragraph of the amendment does not prohibit children, but punishes the legal person or independent entrepreneur - and so is it. The one who doesn't take care of safety should answer! And remember how many carols there were, statements, arguments about what happened at the Lipa. We do not prohibit young people and anyone who has responded to the Lip case in this House and, in any way, wants to blame or restrict young people, this amendment is too heavy for him or has not read it well enough. And once again, let us give this amendment to be accepted; it is better to write several times; we are all raised in a different way, but alcohol is indeed an evil in which we allow the country or this national assembly to help us in this training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you. Member Drago Koren has been declared.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u172	I wanted to replicate Mr. Willie Rezman earlier. It is true that I was not appointed, but from his debate I felt that I was misunderstood. I must say, with much of his debate, I could quite agree. Children are a reflection of their parents and are often a very critical picture. We can find our own or see our own mistakes on children, even if it is so difficult to admit that we have them. Even with Mr Kumr's debate, I must say, in many ways or almost everything, but I would just say, let's at least take the first step in this law, let's not wait for other laws, what we will adopt. In this law, let us give this opportunity, which we are offering today, to accept. What I used to say about alcoholism, I was really speaking out loud. I claim that the problem of alcoholism in us adults is the main problem, but unfortunately, children learn so quickly from us that it's amazing. About a year ago, I listened to Dr. Janez Drnovsk, not the president of the country, but an expert on addiction, and his thesis on addiction was very interesting. First of all, he gave the Slovenians some workaholics, and second of all, I think it was alcohol, cigarettes, and so on. What was interesting was the debate that I asked myself if it wasn't already, say, I told my child, my teenage daughter, to bring me beer from the storage room, that it was inappropriate. And that's when I thought it was really inappropriate. It's already inappropriate for a child to see me drink, but if he already sees me drink, I need to know the right way to explain, what some debater said before, because the difference between an adult and a child is. I think you explained earlier that minors are not yet adults. Once again, I think this may be the first step we can take today and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Anyway, I didn't mean to sound anymore, but because I heard something before, actually, some unusual logic. I don't know if I got it right. My friend Kumer said that it would be inequality if the children accompanied by the parents could, if they could not. That's really hard to understand. And that's some logic that takes away the right of parents to be parents. So if I follow my child, that I'm with him, that I can control what he's doing, and that what he's doing is working under my watchful eye, that I'm directly responsible for him, anyway, some other child would be in an unequal position, because he doesn't have that right if the parents aren't there. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a force of unusual thinking. And I must say, as a parent in this society, I do not agree with such logic. This is some kind of liberalistic notion that it is, in fact, the way it was previously debated by colleague Petan, that everything is permitted, all of it. It is said that there is no age limit here and that we have actually left these things so that each individual can answer for himself. I don't know what it would do to harm minors by enforcing such a legal provision. I just don't know! What harm would it do them if we actually protected them? You know, kids aren't the problem. The problem that today appears to be a problem in schools is uneducated children, those who cause - I don't know, the last time we could read about school income in Domžal. I had a similar experience in Ormož myself some time ago, where young boys as old as it says here came, called others out and beat them with a baseball bat so that they had to be provided by health care. I think that if all the reports remind us that there is more and more, then we are not really far from this, as my fellow Member Kokal has previously discussed, that the victims of these violent acts will become, not only do they account for each other, but they will also be victims of those who cannot defend themselves, and these are, above all, older people, who are already complaining more than once today that they are targets of young people's attacks. So, something has to be done. Although I am not entirely sure that this is the only course of action, of course there will be a lot of need. First of all, it starts to be aware of this and at different levels, because it is an extremely complicated and complex issue that cannot be resolved by one and only measure, but in the light of the protection of 16-year-olds and young people, of course, we can do so today in this law on public order and peace, this restriction can be applied as an additional criterion and this, in my opinion, can only be positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you, you. Member Dusan Kumer has applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u176	Now I have to say, I said one of them is going to get caught in a nut and round syntagmo. That's why I said it wasn't a well thought-out amendment. Because an uneducated child with a parent can step into a place without a parent, and he can't step into a restaurant, so I said it's two species. I would understand if the amendment was restrictive to the end that they should not enter the bar until 16 years old, OK. because you all talked about education, but education is also based on mutual trust, including between parents and children.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you. Once again, a colleague of Boštjan Zagorac joined the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Given the time limit I have to say that this education and the emphasis on parental education, I'm going to say the basis of this debate on this amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u179	Comrade Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u180	We have also heard about the amendment on the non-education of some Members, of course, there has been no more corruption to directly tell which Members it is. You know, in education it's so, theoretically, it's really hard to raise, practically, that it's a damn hard job for every parent. Because there has been a talk about the non-education of individual Members, I ask that those who do not have practical experience refrain from any laughter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you. A representative of the government, Mr Zvonko Zinraj, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, spoke. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In Article 22, the Government, when preparing this law on the protection of public order and peace, sought to regulate the bond to the legal person responsible for the hosting activity. The amendment you have tabled on this provision gives a new dimension, a new width. The government has carefully considered this amendment and has somehow taken the view that, of course, it is extremely important how the country behaves and treats children and young minors covered by the amendment. However, somehow the government remains in the opinion it has already had that the actions that the amendment's proposing somehow prevent are already covered by the alcohol restriction law, which has been pushed out in the context of this amendment. The definition, as proposed in the amendment, which would bring the protection of minors as a new segment, and the law protects all persons, regardless of age, somehow even after our assessment does not "feed" together and therefore the government does not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss in conjunction with Article 22 and the amendment of the members of the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on this Article. There are two more articles ahead of us. First, we turn to Article 28 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSU. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? A message from the Flowers of Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Article 29 speaks of the new substantially extended powers to be given by municipal officials following the amendment of this Law. This will give them a number of new powers, either from an area covered or covered by the state or on its behalf by the police. In fact, it introduces itself in some way and opens the door for municipal police. It is my opinion that such a solution is not meaningful and not appropriate and, above all, they are not prepared for it. It would be wise for the police to take care of what we have for ourselves. In doing so, it is important to stress the increasingly clear tendency and, at the same time, the general criticism that the police are withdrawing and actually withdrawing quietly from a range of areas. We read a rather critical report about the functioning of the police days ago. It has been a tendency for the police to actually want these problems, human resources, financial and similar in some way, and therefore, such powers are now transferred to the level of local communities and communities that I can say peacefully that we do not want these powers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u185	Colleague of Flowers, please allow me to make peace in the hall. Let us listen to Members of the Cveti Zalokar Orzam in the debate on Article 29. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u186	Because this will somehow double the responsibility and authority for a whole series of crimes. Both the police and the municipal authorities will have it, and it is likely in practice that such a solution will cause a whole range of inconveniences, responsibilities and, of course, my assessment of inefficiency. The police are nowhere now, and from now on, they will certainly point to the mayor of local communities and municipal officials for things that will be transferred by law to municipal authorities if problems arise. In doing so, it should be pointed out that at the moment, a large majority of the congregations are not properly organized to be able to take over these powers at all; they may be city halls, and they will have major problems, since nowhere in the system are the funds available for all these numerous municipal offices with all the powers. These companies will need to be equipped, fund-raising, vehicles, premises and, of course, to hire and fund people. At this point, I do not see the funds anywhere, nor will the funds be reduced for the police, nor is it written anywhere that the congregations will receive more money so that they can actually do all this. Such solutions interfere with the powers of the state authorities and, of course, the police are also somehow escaping what we have set up or will be diverted from what we have set up and what its fundamental competences are. In doing so, I would like to say that it is very interesting that we have almost the most police officers in Slovenia, in fact, per thousand people. We don't have a lot of cops, but these cops, I think 70, 80% of their work is done in their desks. I can safely say that the local communities have not actually seen them in the last few years: they are not where they should be. Please, we pray, citizens think that we have some options primarily for mayors, but that is not the case, and of course here I think the situation will be significantly worse from now on. The question is also the use of coercive means that these editors may have used, because they have actually dealt with improperly parked vehicles, they have dealt with, I will say, dead things from now on, they also have the power to act in direct contact with people, and in very different situations, probably even in the moments of dispute, there may also be an irregular, even violent, behaviour of the offender to the municipal editor. Of course, the question here is - how should such a ruler act? He'll have a pen, he'll have a gun, he'll have handcuffs, he'll be protected in any way? Because we're responsible for him in the local community. So far, only the police have had the legal power to repress the sanctions against citizens. In the future, local communities are also expected to take responsibility for ensuring security through the organisation and direction of red tape services. Believe me, I'm also afraid of the personnel force - who will be in these jobs? We have municipalities, we'll say, we'll get what's left in the end, which won't be good for the police, which won't be good for anywhere. These will be the people who will be able to run for jobs that we will open up in the congregations. So the worst cadre, the worst-educated cadre, the worst-equipped cadre and, of course, with exactly the same powers as the police should have at some points. I'm afraid of this situation. I fear this situation, it will be bad, I also think about Lipa, where a whole range of state institutions have placed responsibility on each other and I think this will be the case from now on. If both the police and the local community are responsible for the same matter, then I think that part of this responsibility will be transferred in any way to the local community. That is why both in my parliamentary group and ourselves do not agree to give municipal officials the same powers as she had in these matters, since there is no police at all. I do not think that Slovenia is mature and is not ready for this, either human resources or financial or organisational, in order to start organising local municipal police. Given how badly the police work at the state level, especially in this segment, I think that all the mayors and mayors can share with me, we often talk about how we miss them, how the last 10 years have not been there, because the connections they have with the community, their responsibilities to the local community, these police officers do not actually have, in fact, almost none of our citizens at our police station. These are things that are certainly not well arranged, and there is no real connection with those bodies that are planned, these are some debate circles, not some real connection between the congregation and the police. And this lack of citizens and citizens feel on their skin every day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you. I ask the Secretary of State if he will respond to the link raised on the dilemma of the performance of Ambassador Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, too, Madam Honourable Member. I know that concern in these segments is the mayor's place, and I also personally agree with some views, but I think this is not the time and place to discuss efficiency, the performance of the police, but I must say so. Look, the police on this segment don't withdraw from the congregations or from the village, from anywhere. The Offences Act, the Criminal Procedure Act, the old laws that are in the field, eventually obliges it to act when it has legal powers. This law, which we have before us and which governs the field of regulation, will not entail duplicating the exercise of powers, but a new quality, added quality in the field of security, because the editorial service will have its competence in the law on municipal registries, which will go through this procedure as well, and then I think you will be able to fully influence the provisions that will also apply to powers. However, we believe that the area that we have set up here, particularly in the 29th and 30th Articles of this Law, which is proposed, has been adequately regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote or no later than 18.35 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, another advocates the law on professional and scientific titles. I would like to inform you that a total time of debate is expected for 50 minutes. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Juret Zupan, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u190	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and honourable Members! The law before you has already gone through the proper treatments, and I think we all know it. The adoption of the law is particularly necessary because all students need to know as soon as possible about their professional titles and addresses that they will receive in their study. The proposal before you defines in the law the professional titles and titles that students would receive after completion of their schooling at the first Bologna level, at the second Bologna level and at the end of the third Bologna level. All terms are harmonised and also systematically regulated, so that there is a minimum possibility of any misunderstanding. If I briefly summarize the system of creating new names, it is next. In the first Bologna stage, our system is parallel or dual. We have professional programs and university programs, so all graduates who graduate at the first Bologna level have written in their title after the name VS or UN, that is a high professional or university education. Thus, the title immediately shows in which program a graduate or a graduate has completed her studies. That's the first stage. At the second stage it is also very uniform because at the second level we have only one programme, so we do not have professional university, but we only have university programmes. Therefore, there is no need for such division, and in all the titles of graduates who finish the second degree in Bologna, a Master's degree has been written and is then a profession in that profession, such as, unless we have European regulated professions, that is, a Doctor of Medicine, a Doctor of Dental Medicine, a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, and a Master of Pharmacy, who is also a regulated profession, as he was at university level. It should be noted that all the titles reached at the second Bologna level are written after the name and name. In the third grade of Bologna, all names are written in front of the name. So far, at the third Bologna level, we only have the name Doctor of Science and, of course, it's written before the name and surname. What may be important is that the titles reached before the adoption of this law remain exactly as they were. Those titles that have been adopted have been awarded in the educational system before the adoption of this law will not change at any point and will remain as they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudi Mojet, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u192	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! At the Committee's consideration of the law, Mr Minister presented his opinion, which was similar to that which we have heard here and that is why I will not repeat it. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, drew attention to the provision of article 23 of the bill, which refers to the fact that the person who obtained the title under the old law can continue to use it as it is now, even after the application of this law, the right titles from 2003 remain the same as they were. He warned that the bill does not provide for the alignment of the addresses with the old and now valid addresses. In this way, the legal consistency and consistency of previous and new publicly applicable study programmes and on the basis of their professional and scientific titles remain unclear. If the legislator fails to lay down the rules under which the coordination and comparability of the previous and new programmes would be determined or determined, education would be provided under the applicable programmes, a comparison of the publicly acquired education would be left to each individual employer. Representatives of the Council of State and all three universities supported the bill in principle. In their view, however, as regards the comparability of the university programmes so far with the new programmes after the sickening of the profession, the latter has not yet reached its conclusion and it is only agreeing on what the editorials of the new and old study will be. However, the legal basis for the equivalence of old and new reasons must be urgently adopted only on the basis of professional discussions. This should also take into account the plan of so-called European qualifications, which are still in the preparatory process, in which employers will have the possibility of comparing individual studies and titles. The Slovenian student organisation supports the proposal of the law, but it does not support any equations between former and new graduates, as they believe these are very different studies or study programmes. The discussion focused on the content of Article 23 of the bill, which deals with old and new titles. The discussion focused on whether it was necessary in the law to provide that the professional titles allocated to university study programmes adopted before 11 June 2004 were equivalent to the professional title established by this law for graduates of study programmes II. Levels. With regard to the inclusion of such a provision in the law, opinions were shared in the debate. Those who objected to such a provision considered that the regulation of the problem was not simple and it would therefore be considered in the relevant professional circles to examine it thoroughly, since it is not possible to define this issue in just one article if we want to be fair to old and new graduates, so the proposed text of the law should not be changed and the evaluation and comparability of old and new diplomas should be subsequently legally defined. On the contrary, some members of the Committee felt that a legal void should be removed as regards the relationship between the current and new study programmes and the diplomas of these programmes, as the existing proposal is inappropriate and allows for the comparison of university education to date with the first Bologna level. This would mean degrading or degrading a university diploma, as some European countries have placed their university diploma at a second level. Thus, so far, diplomats would be unevenly placed up to diplomats in some other countries and thus not compete in job offers in the wider European area. The Committee voted on the amendment proposals in Article 23 on the basis of which the professional addresses to be allocated under university study programmes adopted before 11 June 2004 were equivalent to the professional title established by this law for second-degree graduates, but did not adopt this amendment, the result was 4-4. The Committee further amended the law by adopting the amendment of the LDS to Article 6, the amendment of the coalition to Article 15 and by adding the amendment to Articles 2, 4, 14 and 20 of this Act. In view of the preliminary examination of the law, I can say that the work of the committee has been successful, no amendments have been tabled to this law, so I can say that the most incomprehensible thing about this law is that it is understandable. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you, Comrade Moge. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I will largely repeat myself after a colleague who, on behalf of his mother's working body, presented the report. This is a law that is logical as a result of the introduction of a Bologna declaration or process into the Slovenian higher education system. Following the recast or adoption of the Higher Education Act in 2004, a new three-stage study structure was established. The first so-called binary, which allows for two types of university and higher education curricula, the second stage is Master's degree courses and the third stage is doctoral studies. What remains unresolved or unsettled to this day since 2004 are titles. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we drew attention to the specific problem of unequal evaluation and, as a result, the situation of old and new students, including the problem of the legal void, already in the previous mandate, when the new law on higher education was adopted. The coalition didn't back our amendment at the time. Government officials, however, dismissed us by saying that this equivalence or equal evaluation of old and new students would be regulated by the law on titles or professional titles. Two years later, this law is not yet in existence, or today we find that this matter will be re-organized by a law on higher education, which is to be discussed at a future meeting or on this procedure of this law on Monday next week. But the fact remains. Slovenian graduates are already in an unequal position to join the labour market within the European Union. For example, a Slovenian student in Slovenia has not yet completed a master's degree, while abroad, specifically in Italy, can complete a doctoral study. Even warnings are coming from the European Union, and some senior officials in the EU institutions are therefore university graduates with a recognised first degree. If the Slovenian legislation does not properly regulate the equivalence of old and new study programmes, they will no longer have sufficient education because, according to the Bologna system, their education is no longer the highest professional, but it is a master's degree. This, as I have already said, puts Slovenian diplomats in an unequal position with graduates from other EU countries today, and in the event that you can imagine it easier, I will present an invitation to a job in one of the EU institutions, to which, if they had this status today, Slovenian faculty graduates could also run. I will quote this invitation: "Candidates must have a completed university education that allows admission to doctoral studies, 12 years of work experience after completion of university education at the level for which they are trained after their previous education." This means that Slovenian citizens would not be able to apply for a post in the EU for at least 15 years, given that the first Bologna graduates will complete their studies next year. It is also necessary to align the titles, old and new, or to align those students who were educated in the old system with those who are educated in the new so-called Bologna system. I would like to draw attention to what Mr Moge has already pointed out before me that this weakness has also been pointed out by the legislative and legal service under Article 23 under a specific law. Because the fact is that this is precisely why there is a legal void in this area in our system, which in fact also prevents judicial protection. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law because it is not disputed and last but only regulates that graduates will have a recognised title once they have completed their education under the Bologna System. However, it is still a question of how we will equalise old and new students and regulate this system within the framework of the Higher Education Act. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Comrade Yelen. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government's proposal for a law on professional and scientific titles, which is once again under parliamentary treatment. The bill was thus already under consideration, but was withdrawn due to a coalition requirement to harmonise university titles with the Higher Education Act. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the designation of these titles or titles belongs to or is in the domain of higher education. We are therefore convinced that a new three-stage study structure is legally established and is in charge of decision-making. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that, in view of the adoption of the Bologna Declaration, the essence of which is to form shorter and better quality study programmes, the status of education should be regulated and the existing university titles obtained so far should be properly placed in accordance with the Higher Education Act. So far, we have closely followed the debates on how to regulate the relationship between old and new titles or the recognition of university diplomas, but we must not allow our conduct to devalue this. We are convinced that this proposal clearly sets out the distinctions between undergraduate and postgraduate studies, the appropriate structure of educational professional and scientific titles, the publicly valid study programmes in accordance with the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Act and the funding arrangements for new study programmes. In our Group of Members, we believe that, with appropriate rational solutions, we contribute to the co-formulation of the modern higher education system in the context of education, research, knowledge transfer, recognition and comparability both in the domestic environment and abroad, i.e. the achievement of international validity. Nevertheless, we believe that such categorisation of titles follows a meaningful regulation of recognition and international evaluation of both Slovenian and foreign education. In this regard, it is recalled that, in addition to the legal comparability and coherence of previous and new publicly applicable study programmes, this new education structure must also be aligned with other areas directly linked to the level of education, such as pay system, rights and labour obligations. In the DeSUS Group, we are advocates of a quality education system. And since education on the basis of the Bologna process is already under way, we believe that such a proposal that we have before us urgently needs early acceptance and confirmation. Therefore, the DeSUS Members will support the complementary proposal for a law on professional and scientific addresses.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you. Ambassador Maria Possonec is expected to present the position of the Hungarian national community. [[She's not here.]] The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Jožef Jerovšek. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal for a new law on professional and scientific titles, which lays down rules for the creation of professional and scientific titles in study programmes, as provided for in the Bologna Declaration on Higher Education Act 2004 and rules for the creation of the title of vocational education under higher education curricula. Our members on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development also expressed some concerns because the proposal for a law did not regulate the classification, non-Chinese study programmes or professional and scientific titles under the Law on Professional and Scientific Titles, 2003, a Bologna level. In the SDS we have listened to the opinion of the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor, the University of Primorsk and the Student Organization of Slovenia, that the law is essential so that the above issue can be dealt with differently and later. We have also examined in detail the comparative analysis of the situation in the Member States of the European Union or the Signatories of the Bologna Declaration in the SDS Group, so we are well aware of the importance that our graduates will also compete in the European labour market on the basis of properly selected and appropriate titles. However, it is essential to find common features of national higher education systems for the transparency of the system of mutual recognition of diplomas as well as for the implementation of free movement arrangements on the labour market. In the SDS Group of Members, we are convinced that our graduates must not be deprived because employment is one of the main pillars of the Bologna process. Let me remind you that some colleges already have recast so-called Bologna study programmes, so it is really high time for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt that law. We are of the opinion that the proposed law on professional and scientific titles is a good one, a legal void on comparability between old or now existing programmes and among the new study programmes following the Bologna Declaration, which was highlighted in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and Article 15 regulates the proposal for a new law on higher education, which is already in the parliamentary procedure. Given that the coalition's parliamentary groups have proposed that this law be dealt with as a result of the unregulated legal void being postponed from the December session to one of the next meetings and that the proposal for a new law on higher education is now being regulated, we will be pleased to support today's proposal for a law on professional and scientific titles in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. This will resolve the fears of students who are educated by the Bologna system that their name will not be known at the time of their completion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Ambassador Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. With the law we are adopting today, let me remind you of some facts: the Bologna process began at the end of the 1990s in response to the growing interest of young people in studying. It includes about 45 countries. It was also decided by Slovenia. The process primarily seeks to create a comparable and transitional higher education space. The serious and thorough renewal of the programmes needed to do so should lead to a better quality study and better competence of graduates in the labour market. One of the key elements of the re-engineering of the study programmes has thus become a new structure of degrees which is expected to contribute to the compatibility and comparability of European higher education systems. This also requires appropriate titles and titles. We believe that the latter is properly governed by the law before us today. We are convinced that it is high time to adopt this law because students are already studying new Bologna processes and programmes, but they do not know what title they will receive when they finish the study they started. At the same time, it should be noted that the situation in monitoring this and some other laws is mildly said. The law came into parliamentary procedure at the end of last year, and it got stuck because of complications and disagreements within the coalition. It is very unusual that under such important laws as this and the Higher Education Act, the Minister of Higher Education and the President of the Higher Education Council cannot be reconciled. Let me mention that the world is always a government consultative body whose opinion should be obtained by the Ministry prior to the adoption of laws, if not already taken into account. We can read in the media about the disagreements and inconsistencies of these gentlemen. The higher education system is hypersensitive to unimaginative and professionally weak solutions that do not have the support of the professional and interested public. This is why we once again call on the government to engage in dialogue and partnership in the drafting of higher education legislation. These are serious things that require a thoughtful and responsible approach, as they will have a significant impact on the generations of students and those who have already studied. While the law regulates the issue of titles and titles, it remains an open issue that cannot be regulated by this law and has reopened it when it comes to Parliament. It is the so-called compilation of new and old diplomas, which are obtained through the programme adopted before and after 2004. The protection of one or the other would be applicable in different laws, allowing for a relatively safe possibility of performing the same works for new and old graduates. In the LDS, we support the amendment of the law on titles and titles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by the Magi. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u202	Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to make a few comments on the law on professional and scientific addresses. The Group of Social Democrats also participated in the drafting of amendments to the Higher Education Act, and we have already found that the law opens the door to renewed study programmes consistent with the Bologna process, but that the question of titles was omitted at the time. The 35th section of the Higher Education Act, which refers to the components of the study programmes for education, lists what are the mandatory components of the study programmes. It is stated in the 14th indent that this is a professional title created in accordance with the law. It is not clear from the discussions that we have already been held that we are aware of the problem of what will happen to the comparability of the titles according to existing, previous study programmes and new Bologna programmes. Since it has not been sufficient time to think about and address all the dilemmas that members of the opposition have also pointed out, it seems more important to the Socialist Group to receive proposals for laws related to the regulation of this area, and in fact to consider and eliminate those dilemmas that appear to be unresolved, at least in public opinion, also show in this law. The provisions of the previous law will cease to apply with the adoption of the law on professional and scientific titles currently under consideration. Now created addresses, such as taking an example of at least one of the professions that I know more and for which I believe it also opens a number of dilemmas, this is a professor with university education for a particular direction; after three years of Bologna study, as it seems, he will get the same title as the title under the current university programme now. Social Democrats believe that the renewed Bologna programmes are not comparable to current university programmes. If the Bologna study is to bring a number of innovations, a new quality, let me just mention that the objectives of the study bologna programmes are to focus on the greater mobility of students, so that education is more comparable for the whole European space, so that our graduates are more competitive in the labour market, the question that arises regardless of what we think about the titles. A fundamental issue, I stress, is whether the labour market for graduates under the revised programmes will also offer appropriate work. Sooner or later, it will be necessary to bite into this problem of comparability when a graduate under the Bologna programme, at the same time as a graduate under the current unreformed programmes, will run for work and the employer, at least it seems so, will choose between one and the other if the laws do not regulate otherwise. What we are asking is whether in fact they are in full harmony with all the solutions now passed by law or the now adopted law on professional and scientific titles with the one that we are looking forward to and which discusses changes and additions to the law on higher education. Nevertheless, I must say that we are aware of the urgent need to regulate the area of titles, and the evidence is that I addressed such a question to the Minister for Higher Education on 11 August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Mag. Franz Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! A new law on higher education established the legal basis for the creation of a new three-stage study structure, for which professional and scientific titles had to be redefined. Following the current law on professional and scientific titles, it is stipulated that these addresses form a final programme for obtaining a high level of vocational education as a graduate of the programme, for the final programme for obtaining university education as a university graduate with the indication of the programme, for the fields of pharmacy and medicine, they have different titles for the completion of studies at the postgraduate level. Science or mag. Art and Dr. Science. In this regard, it is also stipulated that the scientific addresses shall be written before the name and surname, and the professional address after the name and surname. According to the proposal for amendments to the law, the professional and scientific titles form for the final programme for obtaining education under the higher education and university programme at the first Bologna level as graduated with the name and surname of the programme, for the completed programme for obtaining education under the Master's degree at the second Bologna level - the Master's degree with the indication of the programme, the title shall be written after the name and surname, so that there are other exceptions already mentioned by the Minister. For the final program for obtaining a doctoral education at the third grade of Bologna, a doctor of science by writing the name before the name and surname. The law also provided that graduates of the old study programmes adopted before 1 June 2004 should use the professional titles they obtained. In New Slovenia, we are convinced and have been working to do so all the time to resolve the new legislation, which was also brought about by the amendment of the Higher Education Act in 2004. This is the regulation of the relations between the former and the new titles. These relations are regulated differently in our comparable countries, mostly in the provisions of the laws on professional titles or on named degrees in higher education laws, which is comparable in Austria and the Czech Republic, Croatia. In part, this can be regulated in other acts or decisions of competent authorities, such as in Germany, Italy and Estonia, so in the New Slovenia stage of the adoption of the law on the home committee, we have tried to achieve that the relationship between old and new professional and scientific addresses is already in this law, according to the Titles Act, so that the level of education that can be obtained is comparable to the new level of education so far. In New Slovenia, we believe that current graduates must preserve their rights both in continuing education and in employment, which, of course, must be very clearly enshrined in the law. An example of how they handled this in Germany. The qualifications of "bachelor" are said to be the first bologna stages, providing them with the same rights as the qualifications of diplomas obtained at the universities of applied sciences, the qualification of "masters" is guaranteed by the true second Bologna degrees as the qualifications of diplomas or masters acquired at universities and equivalent higher education institutions. The amendment that we tabled at the committee meeting followed the above-mentioned solutions and would already regulate the situation in this law between the currently valid titles and the terms resulting from this law, but unfortunately it did not get sufficient support and, of course, this will then have to be regulated in the amendments to the law in higher education, which is already in parliamentary treatment. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we will support the amendment of the law on professional and scientific titles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Tuesday, 30 May, in the framework of the votes. I thank the Minister very much for his participation. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Period of the day - another defense proposal for the Sugarwater Fisheries Act. The expected time of discussion is 2 hours and 15 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has joined us at this time. Nice greeting, Madam Minister, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u206	Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to give you a brief introduction to the proposal for a law on freshwater fishing. The existing law on freshwater fishing, which has been in force for three decades, proves that it has spent a relatively long life. However, the new social conditions and environmental requirements dictate the issuance of a new law, which will also be in line with new European environmental measures. The draft law, which has been in existence for several years, has been written following a preliminary thorough analysis of the situation in this area and with the participation of all fisheries organisations, fisheries and nature conservation professions, administrative authorities, agri-land chambers, fisheries associations of Slovenia and others. By comparing the existing law and the new proposal, we can see that in essence all those solutions that have proved to be good are being preserved. More important new solutions are the following. It is proposed to conclude concessional relations between the country and the fisheries operators. According to the existing law, fishing families manage the environment free of charge and for an indefinite period of time. Following the new proposed regulation, the concession act will also determine the amount of the concession. Until now, fishing families have prepared and implemented long-term fisheries and farming plans. Following a new proposal from the law, this will be the most demanding and responsible professional work carried out by the public fisheries institution, in close cooperation with existing fisheries managers and local communities. They will be supported by the Minister responsible for agriculture, in cooperation with the Minister responsible for the environment. The definition of economic use of water for so-called commercial fishing in closed waters is also being introduced. The new Water Act also regulates ownership of water lands. However, the proposal for a new Fisheries Act gives these owners the right to obtain water rights for such use of water. Experience so far has shown that many water owners have great interest. The new chapter is also the cultivation of fish for fishing purposes in accordance with fisheries and farming plans, while the cultivation of fish for feeding will be regulated by the livestock and veterinary legislation. The proposal for a law specifically defines the public service task to be performed by the public fisheries institution of Slovenia and the tasks to be carried out under the authority of the Minister and to be able to be carried out by the Fisheries Union of Slovenia. So far, no one has been competent to determine the causes of the frequent deaths of fish resulting from a natural, environmental or other accident. The consequences of these accidents are the damage to fishing families as a rule and the cause of the accidents has not been known. In the future, a mandatory public service operator will be responsible for the sampling of water and dead fish in accordance with the water regulations. In cases of suspected fish diseases, veterinary inspection. Only in this way will it be possible to find a water pollutant and sanction it in order to compensate the operator of fisheries management. The waters of the special purpose managed by the fisheries office will also be redefined by the new law, and management will also be prescribed. The new law will also provide a legal basis for all types of fisheries financing. This is the financing of public service and structural measures and state aid in accordance with European Union rules. With regard to organisation, the mandatory membership of fishing organisations in the Fishing Union of Slovenia is maintained, while members can organize themselves on a voluntary basis in regional relations. There is also a higher level of professional training for workers working in fisheries. Until now, this has been left to the Fishing Union of Slovenia, and the Fishing Union of Slovenia will be able to implement it, and the training provider for the preparation of the programme and the establishment of the examination committee shall be authorised by the Minister. Additional powers shall also be conferred on the fisheries and conservation service, with the fishing guard also being able to obtain the mandate of the criminal authority if he fulfils the conditions under the law governing the offences. Otherwise, at the request of the fisheries management operators, he will appoint and resolve the Minister for a period of four years. I suggest you pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you for further explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Aloise Sok, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker. You have received a report on the proposal for a law on freshwater fishing, and I should like to introduce it again briefly. The Committee considered this law as its parent working body at its 12th meeting, on 11 May 2006. In its work, the Committee took account of most of the comments made in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Several amendments by the Social Democrats have also been tabled by parliamentary groups to the bill. The main debate on the Committee was on the articles to which amendments or proposals for amendments to the Committee were tabled, and particular attention was given to Article 11 of the proposal of this Act. This article provides that the draft plan is to be drawn up after the new establishment, while, after the law in force, the fishing families have been preparing planned management for the last 30 years. Thus, some members of the Committee felt that the delegation of powers to prepare fisheries management plans to the Institute was unnecessary and that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia would be further burdened. In the debate, they therefore proposed that it should remain as is the law currently in force. On the other hand, the majority of the members of the Committee considered it more appropriate that the professional management and fisheries and farming plans be prepared by the institution in cooperation with the fishing families, i.e. by the new concessionaires, and we added local communities. In this regard, the Government's representative also further explained that, if the fishing families, which are now concessionaires, would continue to prepare these plans and then implement the Management in order, in fact, to be an example of a conflict of interest where the same legal person in the same person would prepare and implement the management plan on the one hand. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 18, 19, 50 and 61 of the proposal. However, he did not accept the amendments by 5, 13, 18, 28, 56th, 59th and the new 77th, because he did not agree with the contents of the amendments, while the amendments to the Social Democrats by 11, 25, 54th, 57th and 57th and the new 57th articles, due to the adoption of the amendments to the Committee, became irrelevant. In addition to these amendments, the Committee has also adopted eleven of its amendments, which were drawn up on the committee itself and are all recorded in the report. On behalf of the Committee, I propose that we adopt that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Stane Pajk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u210	Hello, Madam Minister and co-workers! The current law on freshwater fishing has been in force since 1976. That's 30 years. During this time, Slovenia has changed a number of things, from Slovenia's independence to Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The social situation has changed and other legislation that also affects the fisheries law needs to be taken into account. It is necessary to comply with European legislation, namely the Habitat Directive. These are the main reasons for the changes in this area. The fishing situation in Slovenia does not allow economic exploitation of water, at least not to a greater extent. Therefore, the current and proposed law on freshwater fishing is naturally targeted. It preserves all good solutions and improves them. We must pay increasing attention to nature due to all kinds of interventions and pollution in the past and present. A good law on freshwater fishing in the field of conservation of the diversity of aquatic life can also help to preserve nature. The most important changes brought about by the amendment of the Law are: for fishing families that have a free fishing environment for an indefinite period of time, the proposal for a new law turns into a concessional relationship between the country and the fishing family for a certain period of time. For landowners, it is envisaged that they may obtain a concession for the economic use of water for commercial fishing, which the current law did not know. This is possible because the Water Act, Official Gazette 67/02, regulates ownership of water land. These are mainly gravel mills where the owners have the right by law to economic use of water. Until now, long-term fishing and farming plans have produced fishing families themselves. After the new planning, it is transferred to the Public Fisheries Agency. The cultivation of fish for fishing shall also be regulated. The commercial breeding of fish for the market is governed by laws dealing with veterinary and animal husbandry. The public tasks carried out by the Public Fisheries Agency are also defined. There's also a little change in organization. The new concessionaires will be organised in advance in the Fishing Union of Slovenia, which can acquire public training powers. It's optional to merge into district liaisons. Fishery guards may obtain powers as a criminal authority if the conditions are met. In neighbouring EU countries, freshwater fishing is different and is not a uniform model. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed law is good and harmonised and in place at the present time. That is why we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is also a greeting to the Minister and to the gentleman of the Department of Fisheries. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, unlike most of this law, we will not support the LDS Club, because, after careful consideration and disregard for the many amendments that could still be amended and improved, it was clear that this government and authority would also like to fish in the mud. There is no reason 30 years from the old law that the law needs to be changed, because the world and Europe recognise that we have so far had our fishing modeled in Slovenia. We have about 77 different fish species, we have 14,000 fishermen, well-organised, educated fishing families run by a roof organization - the Fishing Union of Slovenia. And in Slovenia, all indigenous fish species have been preserved. A worse part of the story or a worse medal in this story is the ecological issue, the pollution of the environment, especially water, which this law itself will not solve. Our main observation of this law is that it leaves too much to a later period, to a submarital act. If we look at how in this area we have already adopted some laws in the past and never and never before met implementing rules, then we are rightly concerned. If we draw a parallel to a hunting law that has long been in force, that matter, which is essential and which provides for hunting concessions, is not yet in effect today. Why, of course, many people know the reasons, but they are not the reasons in the wild, but in politics. Similarly, the policy and role of the Institute for Fisheries, State and Government through a small door is being smuggled into this fishing law. We have not been able to upgrade a system with which fishing links and fishermen would say thank you for their voluntary and quality work and then upgrade the law, but we are introducing many reforms. Major reforms are in the planning process. It is difficult for me to believe that planning, for example, in the Bohinian fishing waters of Ljubljana will be more effective than in Bohinj, where people and fishermen walk and know them every day. We do not waive supervisory rights at the final stage of the Department of Fisheries, Government and State, but that first and basic act is supposed to come from where the fish are at home. In addition, the Fishing Union of Slovenia could carry out a number of things in the framework of its public powers. We have not given her adequate representation in both domestic and foreign areas and her planning has been disabled and will maintain education on a somewhat smaller scale. In addition, this law brings a significant novelty, these are concessions and concessions, which have been discussed extensively. Finally, what the Committee's report mentions is that this 10% concession fee and concession fee will also be appropriate for it to fall out of the law. On the one hand, this can be good, because 10% cannot be a universal solution for all of Slovenia. If we want to approach this realistically, honestly, then we should take into account water quality, water pollution, make a regional cadastral and also take into account the past, a lot of the rich work of fishing families. This story could open up a lot more and better, especially more definitively and more definitively. I think there's going to be an opportunity to discuss the amendment for these matters. I would also point to this conflict of interest, which has previously been evident by the fact that fishing families plan and implement. When the country plans and implements this through the fisheries office, this conflict of interest will not be reduced, perhaps even greater and even more significantly under the influence of politics. I could say that this fishing law is a fish that has a big head and a big mouth, but it's obviously going to have a little meat for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Thank you very much also to my colleague Pječet for having managed the session so far. Mr Weber has the floor to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Social Democrats. We also note in this law that in Slovenia we pay very much attention and very great attention to the biological diversity of the animal and plant world. Unfortunately, the red thread in the law we adopt in this area is that it does not take into account people living in an environment where biodiversity is the most vital. The inhabitants of these areas are treated without adequate solutions due to the restrictions imposed by the measures. Here we can get the most information about such a relationship in areas that are included in Natura 2000 or in areas that are included or defined as central areas of the brown bear. This law on freshwater fishing also reduces the influence of fishing families and the Fishing Union of Slovenia, in which fishing families are included. Local communities as spatial planners have very little influence or, according to the proposaler, have nothing in the basic text. These areas are also poor by the outflow of funds collected from fisheries management concessions. These funds are being fully absorbed into the national integrated budget. And with much greater importance under this law given to the Slovenian Fisheries Institute and the Ministry, we can again see that it is centralisation and that we want to re-establish the centralisation of decision-making in this law. And this has to do with rural poverty. Unfortunately, in the second reading on the Committee, we were unable to enforce the allocation of funds between the municipality and the state, i.e. the means of concessional duty, and the greater impact of the fisheries union of Slovenia and the fishing families. Nevertheless, we are trying to improve some things in the second reading to open articles, but in particular we want to allow at least a proposal for a draft, a fisheries management plan to prepare societies to compensate operators for the damage caused by protected species of animals and birds, to grant more public powers to the Fishing Union of Slovenia, in particular to represent fishermen in international organisations and to grant them public authority to organise national and international games and to have public authority to take care of the protection and cultivation of indigenous fish species. Unfortunately, it is not possible to table an amendment to Article 5 of the Act under consideration, which deals with the objectives, since we believe that this Act on freshwater fishing should state that the main objectives are also the conservation and protection of natural fish populations, their variety, age structures and numbers. That the basic objective is also to protect endangered fish species and their societies. That the basic objective is to prevent and spread alien fish species in inland waters, is to protect and preserve the nature of salmonid and caprine waters. Since this is not among the basic objectives of this law, according to the proposaler, it shows that the Ministry is not ambitious enough to be responsible for those objectives in freshwater within its mandate and, above all, shows an improved attitude towards fish and, in particular, the environment most clean and preserved in the area where many fish species live. This indicates that, in fact, environmental protection is not one of the priorities of this ministry, which is not good, and it is also one of the major shortcomings of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Sok has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u216	Again, thank you so much for your word. Just for a little while. The law now in force in 1976 is essential for some new environmental reasons, and this is actually done through this law that is before us today. The fundamental substantive difference between this law and the existing one is that in future fishing families they will no longer operate with water and with all the fish fund, as has been the case so far, but the state will grant them a concession for it. This means that they will enter into a certain legal relationship with the State. By means of a concession act, this relationship will also be more precisely determined and they will have to pay one part of the concession fee to the State for this exercise. The explanation of the law itself stated that this would be 10% of the sales of fishing vessels. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Such a substantive shift will, of course, entail some other legal matters in this area. [[..]] One of these is certainly after the new fisheries planning. Most members of the committee agreed, despite the fact that we are aware that there are many experts in fishing families today, I do not know, from science doctors to university-educated experts in this area, that some other fishing families, of course, do not have such human resources, we agreed that this planning would be transferred to the fisheries office, while fishing families will be, and we added local communities, to this planning. It seemed to us that it was appropriate, somehow, for us to reconcile this task of planning and carrying out each other’s tasks. The law before us also regulates a more detailed method of financing, so it sets out everything the State will pay in the future and also as the tasks of fishing families and fisheries associations, the law only states what the state will pay. However, all else can be done by fishing families, but this is not a matter of this law. Another area that we think is important in New Slovenia, which is law-abiding in this proposal, is the granting of the right to commercial fish farming, which is clearly of great interest in Slovenia, and otherwise this law of this area, which I have mentioned, is not otherwise regulated. It seems to us that this is a modern European comparable law and we practically think that something quite today with the amendments does not need to be corrected to make the law as it is appropriate for adoption. And that is what we will do in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you very much. And last, Mr Kangler, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the freshwater fisheries law. We'll support him for a number of reasons. At this point, we must confirm that this is a law comparable to that adopted in the previous mandate. This law was created after the same hoof or has exactly the same dimension as that of fishing for game. It is said that the relationship is governed on the one hand between organisations engaged in fishing or fishing, as on the other hand with the concessionaire or those wishing to obtain concessions and on the third hand with all those who must become members of the so-called fisheries union. Why am I talking about comparability with the hunting law? Especially because this law on freshwater fishing has some novelty. The Act, which was in force in 1976, was no longer suitable for the normal functioning of both fishing families and fishing in Slovenia, given the change of the system. According to the old law, the 1976 Law, the congregation was the one who assigned the fishing area to the fishing family. Now this needs to be shared, and it is right that we have an interlocutor on one side through a public fisheries institution that communicates with the fisheries union of Slovenia and with fishing families. The relationship between the public institution and the relationship between fishing families is clearly and precisely established. It is important that the law also literally defines the cultivation of fish, in particular the cultivation of fish to fish those waters where some indigenous fish species have disappeared from Slovenian waters. It is also important to stress, as the Minister said, that commercial fisheries should be classified in a structure where the so-called processing or agricultural sector is a gainful activity. This is also important, and this will be suggested in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group for consideration by representatives of the government, concerning the amendment of the Social Democrats to the 11th Article, which says: "The management plan under the existing bill prepares the institution for a period of six years in cooperation with the local community." This is all right and right, but if we want to relieve the public agency of fishing, we think in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that there is nothing wrong with the proposal of fishing families or those who have received concessions, the public institution confirms these programmes. After all, this will relieve the work of the public institution and oblige the fishing families to be the ones who will have to prepare the programme. In the field of hunting, there is the exact same ratio. Hunting families are the ones who prepare annual plans to fire, and forest management agencies are the ones who approve, correct or supplement these plans. And I can't imagine how the forest office would do this for over 420 hunting families breeding plans and so on. We also propose that the government be defined by this amendment. In the Group of Members, we believe that support for the amendment to Article 11 should be considered. The law also states that all established fishing families must also have a compulsory membership in fisheries associations, so that they can be organised on a voluntary basis in regional relations. We support the law in the parliamentary group. It is important that relations take place both on the one hand of concessionaires and those granted concessions or between users and those who manage both water and fish. The law is comparable in Europe, and we will also support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We begin by discussing the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the split reviews of the amendments of 24.5.2006. First, I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you. With the amendment to Article 11, we would like in particular to highlight the extremely great experience and responsibility of the members of fishing families living with water and fish to be included in the preparation of the draft management plan, which then goes on to deal with the institution in accordance with this law, and lastly, the Minister or the Minister responsible shall finally confirm such a proposal. In this way, I think that we should maintain, to a large extent, the knowledge and interest of societies in actively participating in water management. And this amendment allows them to do so, so we expect the proposer to change his mind and give up too much centralisation in decision-making and planning, because it is extremely difficult to plan and manage fish from the Ljubljana office, where the situation is completely different from that of water on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u222	I'm calling back in my name. My opinion on this amendment is positive. I think that the Minister or a member of the government and the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture should think carefully about this amendment. I can't imagine and seriously remind myself that fishing families are the ones who have planned to fish and have programs and have plans and have everything. If someone wants to gain influence, transfer to the fishing plant complete work and planning, planning, then he has accumulated a load of burdens and work. However, if we read this amendment thoroughly and substantively, it suggests that the draft plan is prepared by the institution on the basis of a proposal from the fisheries management operator and the opinion of the local community. I don't know how much damage the local community is suffering in the management of fisheries in freshwater fisheries, but I don't mind it, but probably the legislator or the proposer has decided so, I don't mind, but I'll be bothered by it, and I'll tell you this from practice, in hunting legislation, it's exactly the same. Hunting families are the ones who plan and the forest management agency approves or corrects or rejects and relieves themselves. I can't imagine that the forest institutes for each hunting family would have specifically planned the catch. In addition, the Fisheries Institute does not know the situation in each movement of a particular area or river or pond according to its own household. Fish families, members of fishing families, however, are those who know the situation, whether the crop is good for the development and cultivation of fish or not, or whether such or other environmental impacts are suitable for the growth of individual fish species in a particular inflow of a river or a lake. And here I am speaking in favour of the fishing industry to leave this to those who will be given control. I have to take advantage of that at the same time. We do not have to afford to wear the same stunts at the Ministry of Agriculture as we do in the field of hunting legislation. We've been waiting two years for concessions, gentlemen! The law is in force. That government doesn't respect the law. All recognition in this place to the Minister, Mrs Lukačičev, that she is working through a government procedure to bring a sub-legislative act, but in this place I publicly warn those who are working within the coalition to maintain the implementation of a sub-legislative act, which we call a regulation on the granting of concessions, that you are misleading and violating the legislation in force. There is no minister or government representative who could say in this place or in any other place that the law is unconstitutional or certain provisions. But it is true about the law on hunting because it is related to the fact that proceedings are pending in the Constitutional Court. However, if it were so bad with this law, believe me, the Constitutional Court would delay the implementation of certain provisions, but they are not. That is why the law is in force and must be respected by the government. And also procedures that run in Strasbourg are running. And until the court decides otherwise, there is a law that we have adopted here, which the former Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Franci Booth, has brought to the National Assembly and we have accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u223	Mr. Kangler, can we go back to Article 11?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u224	I'm going fishing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you very much. So we don't fish in the mud.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u226	As a representative of the parliamentary group, I have confirmed that he is comparable, like colleague Sok, to European legislation, because he is similar to or related to hunting legislation. It is true, however, that local communities have no influence in hunting legislation as they do in this law, although this influence in planning and drawing up plans would be more important for more opportunities and opportunities to be given in the hunting law, because there is more damage after the game, where directly in some environment the local community works. It is important that I fear that someone will be in the government because of such or other interests and will not let go through fishing concessions, as in the field of fisheries. I'll say it for the end, and I'm done. Despite the fact that we have recorded in the coalition parties some of the negotiations both within the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party and DeSUS that there is a need to respect the legislation in force and to take the sub-legislative acts forward, and also in this law on freshwater fishing, many of which we impose by law to the government. And the experience we have is that we're worried, so I pulled in this direction and made a comparison with the related law, the law of hunting. I would suggest that the Minister be defined by this amendment. I think it makes sense that the institution doesn't lose any authority, so it just makes the institution less burdensome. The institution is that alpha and omega, according to the local word, which will eventually prepare such a plan, which will eventually also approve and confirm such a plan. It is true, however, that if, once again, you put this kind of work into the office, then I am sure that neither physically nor mentally are the employees of a year for all the fishing families or operators who have such plans in the management of the fishing stock.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. I will draw from the conclusion of the Slovenian Fisheries Union that, since November 2005, they have managed to reconcile many comments with the government, but they believe that there are still many areas that are unspecified or inadequately defined, and one of them is certainly also what is covered by the amendment that we are currently discussing. The fishing families have the feeling that this proposal is to a large extent intended to detract from the operation of fishing families and the entire fisheries organisation and to transfer matters to the public fisheries institution. Given that they are now doing this on an interesting and voluntary basis for fishermen themselves, we can expect that the matter will be very much ambited again after unnecessary accumulation, as the public agency for fishing for these things will not do as fishermen are interested, so it will also not work hard and have an interest to prepare themselves in a timely manner, but the public institution will get plenty of new work that it will have to do after the official duty just as long as they can. I hope that this will prevent them from hiring additional personnel, not even those that have never even been caught by fish. This is one of the dangers that I certainly see one professional work moving away from the profession, i.e. from those who have done so far and who, as proposed by this amendment, would continue to draw up a proposal. However, if this proposal contains any content that is not in line with the general direction, with broader social interests, not least with the direction of the government, then, of course, it can still correct and correct the public body for fisheries. I also strongly suggest that this amendment be considered and supported, because, as I have already said, we will leave it to those who are working on it voluntarily and who, of course, know things best. However, there is still a safeguard so that in the case of larger and larger [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u229	Please, little listen, Dr. Slavinac speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you. The proposed plan may be corrected. There are many areas that the fisheries union has done well so far and will be gone. Here are also plans for education at all levels, including the preparation of these breeding plans and the published manual and other literature, not least the paper. For this reason, I see no reason why we should not trust them in the future, and therefore I also support the adoption of this amendment, and I propose to all my colleagues here that we leave the fish to those who are sport and recreationally hunted in their free time, I stress, sports and recreationally, because this is not an essential economic category, but mainly space-based activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Following the law, indeed, fishing families prepared plans and were confirmed by an administrative unit. But if you make your own plan, and then you execute it yourself, I don't think that's right, because there's a conflict of interest. That's the first thing. Second thing. By now, a number of fishing families have wanted and sought professional assistance in the fishing industry. The third point is that the Fisheries Institute will not refuse to cooperate with the fishing family, but this cooperation will be very welcome if it is at a quality level. But the last word is a fishing establishment chosen by the owner, but the owner is a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u233	Dr. Slavinac, do you have a replica? Later, then at the end of the list. And it's Mr. Sušnik's turn. And I'll read the rest to make you feel, Mr. Sušnik, Sok, Mag. Sayovic, Presbyterian, Weber, and then Dr. Slavinec again. Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 11 of the updated proposal for a law on freshwater fishing is in stark contradiction with the purpose and purpose of the law and is incubated by any sound logic or congealed by what we have written in Article 7 of the Act, which constitutes the essence of this law. Here I would like to remind you that there is just one short sentence that says that the management of fish is within the jurisdiction of the State and that the State grants concessions to operators. However, you are proposing, Sir Weber, that this or whoever gives him a concession to manage a fishing zone will draw up a proposal for a management plan, even though we already know that some fishing families are not able to do so at all. I would like to recall, however, that in the course of the second reading of this law, we have listened to such comments by the Slovenian Fisheries Association on the Agriculture Committee and have amended this article to the extent that we have incorporated the opinion of the local community and the opinion of the fishing family as a potential manager. And I'm sure that's quite enough. Once again, I stress that this amendment directly, I will say, attacks the goals and purposes of the law, is in sharp contrast to what the state wants to achieve with this law if we are to ensure the continued care of freshwater fish. And I think that the basic objective and purpose of the law is to achieve this. I would also like to remind you that a similar system is regulated by the law on hunting, while in the law on hunting hunting and breeding plans it prepares a forest institution, in which case we have brought this task solely to the fisheries office by implementing this law. Fish families as operators and local communities, which is a novelty, cooperate with the opinion here. However, it would be totally wrong for proposals to be prepared by fishing families, although I believe that there are such desires, there are such desires, but then, with the implementation of this amendment, the objectives and objectives of this law would be completely undermined and attacked. That's why I'm sure it's not good for us to support this amendment. Once again, I would like to point out that we have listened to the fact that, as part of the second treatment, we have incorporated in this fourth paragraph both the opinion of the local community and the opinion of the future concessionaire of the operator. I think that this is enough and I believe that this arrangement, which is now being attacked by this amendment, is good enough to contribute to better care for freshwater fish, for variety and to preserve indigenous species of Slovenian fish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, the replica probably doesn't. Three minutes me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u236	I have a replica of Mr. Sušnik. Look, Mr Sušnik, you are denying and forgetting the following fact that the concessionaire who will operate these waters must meet very strict conditions. These are, however, that it must have professional competence in the implementation of fishing operations and must also have a professional qualification examination, in short, a variety of other requirements to be met in order to be able to carry out this activity. The manager will also accept the annual plans. The most information on what needs to be stopped and incorporated into the fisheries management plan is provided by operators. They have the most information. Without this, it is not possible to prepare a draft fisheries management project. And what this amendment says only about the operator preparing the proposal, nothing more, just a proposal to prepare. However, the opinion of the local community is necessary here in order for the local community to at least know what is planned in the fisheries field and to give an opinion on this and then, at the final stage, the Minister can adopt a quality management plan. And it's not a conflict of interest, Mr. Pike. The conflict of interest takes place at a time when the fisheries office manages these waters, as provided for in this law. The Fisheries Office is also envisaged as a temporary manager, adopts a plan and can also manage water, which is a conflict of interest. But it can't happen with concessionaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We continue with the debaters. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thanks again for saying that. First of all, given what Comrade Kangler said. There is a fundamental difference between this law and the law on hunting. The waters in which the fish are fed are completely state-owned, while the game is kept on private land. That's one fact. And the second fact is that there are 35 initiatives against the hunting law for constitutional review in the Constitutional Court, not yet in Strasbourg, they are likely to be there. As for the amendment itself, in fact, this amendment breaks the basic concept of the law and we discussed it on the committee the most. I also presented this in the report that this was the most debated. The granting and exposure of the concessional relationship means, in a legal sense, that these drafts are prepared by the institution in cooperation with the fisheries families and with concessionaires and with local communities, so these are involved. However, if we are going to make a proposal for them, and then there are more pending issues in this law, because then how to proceed with this proposal, if it is not in line, I would say, the rest of the policy that the state wants to implement in this area. So this is a significant difference. The opinion is one and the proposal is another. It has also been pointed out on the Committee that so far some 40 administrative units have imposed this task on the Fisheries Authority and that, in fact, a number of new directives, such as the Habitat, then the Natura 2000 Fish Directive, have been implemented here after the entry or takeover of the European acquis in Slovenia. More and more are those fishing families that are having difficulty meeting all these criteria. Now, whether you make a difference in the law somehow between those fishing families that could do this or between those fishing families that couldn't do it humanely. We have different situations, and the law has to be written down for all the same. That's why we eventually came to this and here I have a letter from the President of the Fishing Union of Slovenia, thanking the members of the committee, the letter was addressed to me for proper cooperation. It is said that in some ways, the fishing link also confirms that it agrees with such solutions as have been enacted or proposed in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike signed up for the replica. I'm just asking you to sign up again as soon as someone finishes the discussion. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u240	Thank you. I would tell Mr Webr that there is no conflict of interest, and that is because the state is the owner and the fisheries institution is the property of the country. If it manages on behalf of a State with a watercourse or with a derelict, it cannot lead to a conflict of interest, because it is simply the owner of the concession and the concession does not need to be awarded to the State, it is not a right. So much so that we're clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, there are no replicas on the replica, but you're still in over three debaters' turn, so there'll be something else to say. But the word has magic. Saivitz. Madam Minister, I beg you kindly, just another time I would like you to give me a sign to apologize, a word is yours. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u242	For a little while. When preparing the law, we were concerned that fishing families would prepare plans more in accordance with their needs and less in accordance with the nature requirements and sustainable use of fish. This shows that there is a conflict of interest. If environmental managers planned fishing and farming plans. I would also like to point out that very few fishing families have the appropriate personnel to prepare these plans, as they have been entrusted to the fisheries office so far. In addition, the Institute runs a fishing cadastral for all waters, and this is also a fundamental basis for the preparation of these long-term plans. Even in public debate, the fishing families did not object to entrusting this task to the institution. It makes sense, therefore, that this amendment is not accepted or that it remains as it was stipulated in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you. Mag. Sayovic, now it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment is good, it improves the law, so I'll be happy to support it, only to understand it correctly. But apparently the biggest mistake of this amendment is that it didn't come from the right side. It's his only flaw. You've decided to move yours forward, and it'll cost you as much as it wants. Sometimes someone who went bad was told that he came for a dog, a baby stick, or a drum. Today you could say the country came under water. Obviously, this is the most important thing the department and this country has to do now, whether we catch sixteen trout in mud milk or maybe twenty-five. We're acting basically like a fool out of ourselves. A lot of words were said about a conflict of interest. The biggest conflict of interest is that the State which is the founder of the fisheries institution then controls itself. So far, Slovenian fishing has been well and exemplaryly managed and has been regulated primarily in the public interest, and from now on it will be managed clearly in the public interest. At the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, for example, he represented our opinion and defended the position of the government, Mr Perko, who is v.d. the director of this institution and the person who is also running this institution later. Yeah, listen, where are the conflicts of interest? The conflicts of interest, if you want them, at the state level are significantly more important than at the level of fishing families. So let's get to the point. The Fishing Union of Slovenia has apparently written many letters with very different dates, probably the ones that are at the end. And they also say: "The management plans and fisheries and farming plans over the last 30 years have been successfully prepared by fishing families, fisheries managers. To this end, we have trained more than 30 planners in the professional training process of the fisheries union of Slovenia only in the last two years. In this regard, it is to be borne in mind that we have at least 30 professionally qualified members in fishing families, fisheries associations and fisheries relations of Slovenia, from doctors of science, masters to university-educated experts who are able and willing to participate in the planning and preparation of fisheries and farming plans." The fishing cadaver was mentioned earlier. In addition, we are fishermen who contribute most of the data to this fishing cadastra, and the fishermen are definitely best acquainted with all Slovenian waters and habitats in them, no doubt better than the fisheries office which will look at these matters from the capital. What is not irrelevant is that the planning now carried out by fishing families for free will cost the country at least 10 million at the estimated cost. That's what I'm worried about. The last time I heard, they weren't planning extra personnel and extra work at the Fisheries Department. Does this mean that they have not done enough work so far to lack work and that it will be necessary now at the same time, to do everything with the same people, or are the reasons different? If you do not feel sorry for other matters at the principal level, you should at least feel sorry for the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Sok, a replica or a debate? Then I'll put you on the list. There's a couple of other colleagues in front of you. Now he has the word, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u246	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. When I read this, I myself participated in one debate about this law and, above all, about this article. I don't think it's normal for us to bring fishing families and congregations to the same level. I don't think that makes sense. This is what I understand that some mayoral lobby has achieved that we have the opinion of the local community, although I do not know exactly what they will do, but it would be clear to me what they might do and what fishing families, of course, should do. I just don't get it right. I would like to, I think, the best thing to do is to support this amendment, and then prepare for the third reading if it seems to the government that something is wrong, and for the third reading to prepare a correction of this amendment. As far as the establishment is concerned, this goes again, I must say, for some kind of centralisation. Let us call it what we want, and the cost will increase substantially. I'm not sure because what it means is that the institution prepares, the fishing family prepares the opinion. OK, there are five municipalities in the area of one of these farms or whatever it's called. So, professionally prepare the institution, the fishing family gives an opinion. On the contrary, I imagine that something is being prepared by the fishing family, in its final form, taking into account everyone, I would say, the state criteria in this area, and together, of course, the institution. This documentation must be kept under review, which is also referred to in the following Article or this fourth paragraph, so that there is no problem. I find it highly controversial that the fishing family will give an opinion on the basis of the fishing plan already drawn up. I don't think that makes sense. We'll think about what we'll do about this amendment. It would best be supported and properly corrected in the third reading if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, if you'd like another word? Okay, thanks. Dr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. I also think that it is not a conflict of interest to make a plan and then implement it, because it is precisely for them and the missions of fishing families that I do not see in ripping out fish stocks, but in caring for their reproduction and, of course, also for the wider interest and interest of sustainable use of fish. These are not companies of economic interest that will catch all the fish within one or two years and then close the fishing family. Finally, we can refer to a long tradition in this regard, but it is for this reason that the fishing family will make such a proposal, I stress, a proposal for a plan that will then be confirmed or corrected by another instance to be favourable to the fish breed. This can also be seen from the content of the operation of fishing families. It is not the only content and activity of fishermen and fishing families at all, but we are engaged in many other activities, not only very important ecological ones, but also in the rehabilitation of fish deaths, but also preventive and non-finally, most importantly, in education, with the education of young people, that they have a natural relation to water, to life in water and then to fishing if they choose to fish. As a result, I think that this is not a violation of the objectives pursued by this law, but rather the opposite. This amendment will make it easier to achieve quality and professionally, without bureaucracy and without additional costs. Even if we refer to the previously mentioned President of the Fishing Union of Slovenia, we can read in the article published in the 5th issue of the magazine Fishič, and I will quote: "We fish are the ones who give a lot of data in the fishing cadastra and we know every corner of Slovenian waters and life in them. We will also be able to prepare plans qualitatively in the future if there is a clear strategy and planning framework. In addition, the state budget will be burdened by 10 million tolars, now planned costs for the preparation of the GNR, which should be added after unnecessary burden." End of quote. That is why I am interested in the previous thought that some fishing families have not been able to prepare this and most of them have. And I wonder if then the public authority of the Republic of Slovenia is capable of doing so. And an even more important question is whether it is capable of without additional staff, that is, without this additional burden, financial, our budget. And two paragraphs above can be read in the following opinion. I quote, "We do not agree with the view that planning needs to be transferred to the country, specifically the Public Fisheries Institute of Slovenia. We have argued on the proposal to prepare RGNs for fishing families, an expert review of the Slovenian Fisheries Institute, and the state confirms it." So all the other security guards are involved, and therefore I am still firmly convinced that this amendment will make it essential to ensure that the law is in the interest of those to whom it must be in the interest. On the one hand, fishermen will be able to take better care of fish breeds and, on the other hand, to preserve our environment and other objectives that the law must pursue and thus better pursue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings from the minister and the others! If the letter to the fisheries committee came before the meeting of the last committee, then the matter is fine. Because the fisheries union and the ministry aligned the text of the law and the fisheries union was satisfied. If this letter came after the committee meeting, then we are the Babylonians, because at the board meeting, the representative of the fisheries union was not satisfied because the text of the law had changed in parts that would not cause the fish to "screw". And even with this amendment we're talking about, there will be no tectonic movement. However, in any event, this should apply to some of the discussers, the fishing family and the local community are present at the first stage, then the fisheries office, then the ministry and at the end of both ministries together, the environment and agriculture. And it is only important whether the local community and the fishing family, which will be preparing a proposal in this area that can be prescribed by the union or the ministry, the way, the conditions that it contains, can be a form for me, or will it be prepared in Ljubljana in the institution. It makes sense to me that for some area, Hodosh, Drava, Bohinjska Bistrica, you are preparing this plan for the local community and the fishing family. And then they give it to the agency to check it out. This one can reject it, spread it in between, and there's not a ton of paper to be sent up and down. If we accept this amendment, of course. Otherwise, these papers will be rumbled up and down. In the end, it's probably the same thing. Now the question is whether we are still talking about decentralisation of certain things in the country or centralisation. And if this amendment were accepted because it is not a political whim, but probably just because of organisational technical simplifications, it is better for me that the fishing family and the local community prepare this proposal and then Roma this matter along the way we are talking about. Concession is a new thing in this law and in this country. Of course, there is a story that may even be more important. The State shall grant or not grant the concession. And the state has granted concessions to legal persons, now also physical ones, which is more important than this amendment. But since I'm talking about this article and this amendment, I think it would be good for us to accept it. In extreme force, believe me, if the person we are defending is wrong, as my colleague Presečnik said, then there is another possibility at the stage of the adoption and consideration of individual parts of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I used to want it when my friend was a magician. Saiovic somehow said it was important who proposed the amendment. No, it doesn't matter. I can also tell you about the report here, see, the SD has proposed 17 amendments in time, as the Rules of Procedure dictates, the LDS has not proposed any amendments. Of these 17 were adopted in one way or another, it is said, more than half, but we disagreed with the 8 amendments. Among other things, this is being reintroduced today, to the 11th article, where the most debate took place. He himself was an advocate to keep the matter as organised as it is at this time. It is said that fishing families are making plans and that they are also carrying out these waters, but through all the debate and the concept of this law, that a concession will be granted in the future, that the country enters into a concessional relationship with fishing families, that is to say, and I have then understood, and I think that fishermen too, that it is a conflict of interest, if the same, that it should take over the plan and then implement it. So this is what the plan is to do the institution, while the concessionaires are involved. As far as the letter is concerned. The letter came on 12.5.2006 and I would like to read to you: "First of all, I would like to thank you personally for your understanding in presenting the views of freshwater fishermen on the future organisation of fisheries in our country. I hope that I have properly presented our activity and our position at your committee meeting. I ask you to support our efforts to be an active and loyal partner of the country in the future. Then he invites us to see the work of the Novo Mesto fishing family and Tolmin." This was 12.5.2006, if the date is important, that is to say the day we had the committee meeting. I understand this in this direction that the President of the Fishing Union of Slovenia, who represents all the fishing families, is also in some way agreeing to enter into a partnership with a country in which they have not yet been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Today, it has been repeatedly said that the Fishing Union of Slovenia and the fishing families agree with this proposal of the amended bill, but only this amendment, which will now be in decision-making, will be the real compromise between the lawmaker and, I would say, future fisheries operators, not only the fishing family, but also others who will receive the concession. Basically, when we got the marriage in hand, it was written, a plan to prepare the institution. Now we offer this compromise, because the committee has not accepted that amendment, but another amendment, but we also, of course, support this proposal, which Mr President said, is possible in the third reading, if this amendment is adopted, to make a certain correction in this direction, as has been said. I would therefore ask that this amendment in this direction, as has been said, be supported. And I'm glad that colleagues Kangler and Presecnik have also given their support to our amendment and colleagues from the Liberal Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u255	Thank you. And Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. I will be very brief, because it seems to me that this is another proof of how such a quality and unfeeling amendment cannot be achieved, which certainly helps to leave the door open a little bit, and that we do not immediately show who decides and who has the last and first words. At this meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, the words of the representative of the fishing families and the statements at the end of the meeting were not such as to enable him to understand that this letter was written after that meeting. I certainly do not doubt the truth, as Mr Sok says, that this letter was written after the meeting, but it does not seem logical to me, given what the debate was and what the position of the representative of the fishing families after the meeting was, and at the meeting itself, because I am sure that this evidence or a large earpiece of the fishermen's work so far has been throughout Slovenia, that all the data and all the analyses that have been made indicate that they have done good quality work, taken care of living in water and the environment, and that there is no reason to centralise the matter so far, but that it is correct that this professional work, education is still going on and that this proposal certainly leaves the door open, that the proposal is prepared and that it can then be adjusted in the office and in the ministry as far as it is concerned, and that this would certainly be cheaper and more rational than the proposed solution. That's why I'm going to support this amendment myself. I'd like to say something else because the mayor's lobby was mentioned. I think the mayor's lobby is an inappropriate word because we were three mayors at this meeting, and we were voted in one very important area, on concessions. How to discuss and define that at least 1% of the earmarked resources from the concession remain for direct investment by the local community, this proposal and these discussions have been concluded and today we do not know who and to whom this concession will then be paid, or whether it will return directly, by which percentage, back to the fishing family or the local community. So I think it would be very good, if not for the sake of good faith, to confirm this amendment today and then change if it is so bad, but I'm sure it's very good and I'll support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And allow me to move on with the plan to ban, to Article 25, and to put to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u258	Thank you very much. It says here when it's illegal to fish. It says, salmonid fish at night, are made, these noble fish: the sulca, the brook trout, the lime. But everyone else can. We have rivers where both salmonides and Cyprus are, and if we're allowed to hunt at night, how will we control those who will also be fishing for salmonid fish - will we have a 24-hour guard job? This is going to put a lot of pressure on the whole thing. We suggest that it can only be fished at night when the competition is organized, because the carp is now a very popular industry, everything else should be banned at night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u260	Here it was mainly meant where there are many kinds of fish that are looting, although that is not the right word. All fish are part of the ecosystem. To allow night fishing because, say, I'm the easiest catch at night.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u262	In Article 24, the Minister shall have the possibility to specify the fishing regime in more detail and may be an exception in that sub-law, so that this is a cleaner solution if our amendment is complied with.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u263	Thank you. I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 26 of the draft law and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The amendment, of course, is editorial in nature, essential and substantively improves the article to be clearer and more understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 49a and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. On this occasion, let me say that the amendment of the government to the amendment has also been tabled, but unfortunately not in accordance with the rules of procedure, so we will only discuss the initial amendment of the Social Democrats. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. I suggest we accept that. In fact, fish eaters do a lot of damage on our rivers, especially cormorants and gray paws. Compared to some other solutions in this area, it is right that this damage is co-financed and reimbursed by the State at a certain level. In fact, such a solution as today, when everything depends on individual fishing families, or they have enough money to put enough fish in the water to keep the stock from falling. In fact, let me say that fishermen eat almost as many fish as all fishermen, both members of the Fishing Union of Slovenia and tourists, catch. I think it would be right for the State to fund, to some extent, compensation for damage to fish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, then Mr. Pike, unless it's a replica. No, no, no, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u268	So I understand that the amendment has already been mediated on the committee, as it is now. Although the purpose of the amendment is good, it makes no sense, because if a country protects certain species of animals, these species of animals must also be fed in nature, and if they are fed by fish belonging to a country, then that is to say, everything remains in the home house. And then the state would, because it protects one species of animal, pay for another species, it would actually be just a transfer of money from one pocket to another pocket or from the country to the country and, of course, something would be lost. This way we will not support this amendment, but we are aware that it is a problem. What you are pointing out is a problem and, of course, this policy in protected species of animals should be driven in such a way that these animals are not in too many numbers, because if they are, they do great harm and eventually they are diluted in the natural environment in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u270	It is true that birds cause much damage to eat large fish, especially the gray herring on smaller streams, the smaller ones that are literally dug up by streams of streams, and the large cormorant on rivers. However, certain birds are protected at European level and there is a need to reach a consensus between the European Union and us by planning a shooting or other measures to reduce this damage. However, it is not logical, exactly, that on the one hand we have protected birds that are part of an ecosystem such as fish and go along the food chain, and on the other hand the country would pay damages to fish that are its own. It doesn't make sense. It is therefore necessary to seek solutions elsewhere. I told you where.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u272	Thank you. You know, it's hard to understand, but in spite of everything, just for a moment, I would return to Article 5, which I have already highlighted as inappropriate in the opening act. And this is the point where the proposer does not really realize that he is a fish management provider and that as a basic objective he should write "preservation and protection of the natural population of fish, their variety, age structures and numbers". This should be a basic task and if the applicant had these concepts clarified, he would endeavour to require compensation from those naturalists, or from the Ministry of the Environment covering the area of birds and mammals, because these birds and these mammals threaten fish species. There is no reason or it is very difficult to understand that the reason why a fish is owned by the state does not need to be compensated for being eaten by that bird. The purpose of management is to maintain a balance in nature. And the balance in nature cannot be maintained if we protect the birds and leave the fish to the fate of the birds. Someone's gonna have to invest more fish and exactly what they live for if we're gonna keep this balance. The concessionaire will not have sufficient resources to cover all these costs from his own resources. On the other hand, we know that we have a famous Natura 2000 right in the area of birds, 35% of Slovenia's surface is in this area - and I suppose we will strive to get more money from Europe because this is an important area and that our fishing families and our operators will have more fish and that we will at least cover this cost. But if we're not ready for this, I think we're doing a lot of stupid things.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u273	Mr. Pike, you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u274	Yeah, very short. I can give you an example in hunting, just like the state would pay for the deer it eats in the same environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Zicherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u276	Thank you for your word! I also believe that if an animal is protected, that is, a predator who feeds on fish, that is, it is rare, otherwise it would not fall under protection, and if this animal inhabits an area in a smaller number, then the damage cannot be so great. I think we attach too much importance to some of these robbers, because there are other animals feeding on fish. In Slovenia, the otter is almost extinct, it can do almost no more damage on the watercourses, we forget that the whitefish also fishes, as well as the domestic cat, if overcomes the fear of water, has already brought fish out of the water. So that all just for a certain protection species now some compensation - that is, those animals that are protected by the state and caught in waters owned by the State - is essentially the transfer of funds from the left to the right pocket of the same owner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. It's Mrs. Pecanova's turn, and then Mr. Bevk. I have both written and Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I would like to warn you two things: one is very technical and in the interest of the government and I think that these coalitions as well. The government has tabled a commercially incorrect amendment because it must not submit it to its own law, and if it is in your interest that this government amendment is incorporated into this article, then I advise you to approve the amendment of the Social Democrats in the vote, otherwise the government will not be able to incorporate its changes in the third reading into this law. That's one thing. And I think that would be worth it. In the third reading, you can still "mascrate" the amendment of the Social Democrats. But the other thing I'd like to warn you about is very biological, and that's my area. In fact, if you want to preserve or if Europe wants to preserve protected birds that feed on fish, many of which are protected fish. Thus, by the way, there are quite a few types of fish in Slovenian waters that are on the red list, so that no one would talk about how fishermen or operators should talk about the controller, the concessionaire, as if it were still fishing families. What if I, for example, made up some money with my colleagues and we get trained and apply for a fishing water management concession, for example, where the water is, and we can win the concession because some fishing families won't be able to get concessions there because they won't be qualified. So we're talking about the concessionaire. This concessionaire will pay the government a concession fee. So, he's got to take care of the fish breed, he's got to make sure these waters are scrubbed, and on the other hand, his birds will eat the fish. So, at least, when overfishing by birds occurs, it would be logical to at least exempt concessional duties. And at least what it is, of course, the government should worry about the balance in nature through the administrator of these waters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u280	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Zicherl, I assure you that for those fish caught by domestic cats in Idrija, I will pay the compensation from my pay. Otherwise, I would say, we have a special project of repopulation of the Soviet trout, which is also a very expensive project financially. And all the efforts in this investment will destroy these fish-eating birds, because in the last ten years the growth of the Socita trout is extremely small and this project will also have to be re-evaluated whether all these investments are justified to see whether we continue with this project in the future or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Given my presence in the hall, I have a feeling that some of our colleagues are also getting fat with fish, not just the animals mentioned. But Mr. Sok has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my colleague Pecan for this advice on how to accept this amendment so that we can have an open article. However, if only for this reason were to be accepted and then deleted again in the third phase, it would be incorrect. I'm sure this coalition won't do that. Nevertheless, I thank you for your advice. But it is true that at times you in the previous government have done so. As far as maintaining a natural balance is concerned. Look, you can't guarantee balance by investing one kind of animal, and you're keeping another species. This is the way we've come up with too many bears in Kočev - because they were fed and today we have problems and the French because of us. Thus, if a balance in nature is to be taken care of, then the number of protected species of birds should be reduced if they are doing too much damage. In such a way that simply a number of them are removed so that I do not use the word kill them. Otherwise, if we don't remove them, then we'll get the situation we had with the swans this year. Too large a population of some animals in the natural environment sooner or later means that these animals are selected by nature to appear among them a disease that reduces them to a certain number. Whether it's a gummy station or a fox glass or a swan bird flu this year or some other kind of animal. That's how it's gonna be with the cormorants. When there are too many of them and if they are doing too much damage, the state must simply regulate them by reducing their number in the natural environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u283	Replica, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u284	Mr Sok, they would probably have died from a serious situation if they had not been able to tell me which I had never been in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before that I had a habit of doing so. Please, let's hold on to this very chronic reading of something that isn't at all. And secondly, once the birds eat all the fish, they will have nothing to live on and then there will be a complete imbalance in nature - you too are one big piece of biologist because you are a veterinarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u286	Thank you very much. When I listen to this, it seems to me that you have all the debaters, not least the authors of the amendment, both in the 11th and 26th articles in mind, especially the welfare of fishermen and fishing families. There you led yourself to make programmes and plans whereby the state would entrust them with fish management or to make concession plans for themselves, plans for the implementation of concessions. With this amendment, when you force the state to pay damages to the operator, the fishing family for birds and fish-eating mammals, you just confirm the previous intention, you just confirm. It should be noted that in that article you are attacking, it is specifically stated that fisheries plans are also adopted in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment and the area under the responsibility of the bird population and those mammals. I believe that fishermen have suffered injustice in the past because no one could solve a riddle or a rebus cormorants. I believe there must have been a great deal of damage to the fish population here, but it is no longer a matter of the state that, because the two departments cannot agree on certain measures, they will pay their own compensation. Let's be reasonable! This compensation, if enacted, would in any event have an impact on the amount or would have been compensated by the amount of the concession fee, that is to say that they would have transferred money from the left to the right pocket. The problem of fish, or the problem of those fish that are threatened by birds and mammals that are at risk of eating, is the problem of using these plans of fishing plans, which must also take account of the threat of fish by another animal population. And because all of this is within the framework of a country that manages both fish and game and game after all, because we know the law on hunting and the law on nature protection and other laws, it is perfectly normal that the state itself will not pay compensation because some population is at the expense of another dominant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Who would have thought that freshwater fish could also cause bitter debate? Otherwise, Mr Weber has a replica, and then he is Mr Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u288	I'd like to clear up another concept.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u289	Excuse me, Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u290	Fish and birds are also quite different, since the Republic of Slovenia is no longer responsible for the birds today, we are still fish, but we cannot influence the birds, but we can influence the fact that as a country we are alerting our good because there is no other way of doing so, and that this money from the international community, from the European community, we get to keep this stock here. That's what this is about! And I don't know what's so hard and so hard to control and understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not ready to support this amendment either. Look, if not otherwise, natural laws will prevail. And it's gonna be hard to convince me in here that a thousand cormorants are gonna get their last fish in one river. No one's gonna get me to do that. So I'd say it doesn't make sense to support this amendment. I once read one analysis, such as foxes - rabbits, what happens in nature. The number of foxes increases, of course, after a certain time, because there are so many foxes, the number of rabbits falls because they hunt them, but when the number of rabbits falls, the number of foxes falls. And it's repeated, these are natural laws, and these laws are going to solve these things. Of course, I'm not saying anything if a species is really threatened by extinction, but then it needs to be cut down, but in a slightly different way and in a different way than is suggested here by this amendment. I can't really support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u293	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the last paragraph 54 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. I'm closing the debate. Finally, Article 74 and the amendment of the LDS Group. I've looked several times, and I'm asking you to raise your hand in time. Look, there's two of us, and we didn't notice. Who's wrong? We've already gone to the second article. I'm sorry. Let's do this in time. Anyone else for Rule 74? Mag. Saivitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. 74. Article 74 is one of the more important articles in which we can improve and correct this law. What's this all about? This article discusses when we will adopt sub-laws. Earlier, one of my fellow Members had repeatedly mentioned that the fisheries law was an analogy with a hunting law, and the biggest flaw two years ago in the law of hunting was that this authority had not yet drawn up sub-laws and thus a good law was fundamentally corrupt. I would like to draw attention to another legal void, which is a problem of special importance to the platoons, which I spoke about the last time on the board, and I think my words went into the wind. I hope that I will not have to prove legally that we have in this statement, but in the meantime I have intervened with the lawyers who have firmly upheld these claims. What's this all about? The point is that if we have special water in Slovenia, we should also determine it by the same analogy as in the hunting law in the fishing law. Since the fishing law has not done so - and obviously you do not intend to do so - then at least the adoption of the sub-laws must be timed so that these acts are adopted as quickly as possible and as soon as possible. This is where the LDS Group goes against the Ministry and against the government, and instead of a two-year deadline, we propose that these sub-legislative acts, which define specific waters, be adopted within six months. This will avoid legal emptiness and once again; I will read what is of particular importance in these waters in the 1996 decision of 19.6.1997, the Constitutional Court: "The decree on the removal of individual waters from fishing areas has ceased to apply by the enforcement of the freshwater fishing law. Following the entry into force of Article 56 of the Act on freshwater fishing, the Act also gave effect to only two implementing rules issued pursuant to the previous Act, namely the contested order establishing fishing areas and areas and the provisions on conservation and the minimum lengths of fish and crustaceans. The decree on the removal of individual waters from fishing areas is therefore no longer the basis for determining the protection waters in and out of the Bohinj municipality." If this was the case for a dispute in the municipality of Bohinj, where the locals have it, I will say, luckily and morally correctly, then this same decision of the Constitutional Court applies to all these waters of particular importance elsewhere in Slovenia and it does not go to make a big difference in the story, but support this amendment and after the law has been adopted, the government should draw up sub-laws within six months, determine the waters of particular importance and the matter is resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. Under-laws and regulations also contain tasks that are granted as a public authority and we want one of these public powers to be better designed in the Fishing Union of Slovenia. In particular, we propose to represent Slovenian and freshwater fishermen in international organisations of the Fishing Union of Slovenia and that this is also a public mandate. And in this Charter, which is to be drawn up for this purpose, we expect this Charter to be drawn up within three months and not within one year, as is the content of the amendment to Article 74. It is also important that a public mandate is given to organise sport competition activities in the field of freshwater fisheries, particularly at national and international level. In particular, this preserves education, expertise and the correct implementation of fishing, and this is one of the important tasks which the fisheries union should certainly have as a public authority. The public authority of the Fishing Union of Slovenia is also important in the implementation of protection and cultivation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u297	Please, just listen a little bit longer. We'll be adjourning the meeting soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u298	Thank you. Therefore, the public authority of the Fishing Union of Slovenia must also be granted to care for the protection and cultivation of indigenous fish species. I think this is extremely important, because future operators will certainly also be included in the Fishing Union of Slovenia and this is one of the important public powers that the fisheries union can then acquire to take care of the protection and cultivation of indigenous fish species, which should also be one of the real basic objectives if I return to Article 5 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. And in this regard, allow me to read to you the letter I received from President Tsukjati, namely, that he wants us to be informed by the Information System Development Department that there has been a disturbance in the transmission of the results of the vote from the voting-conference system to a collection of votes in the environment of Lotus Notes. If they're gonna put an end to this, they're gonna need an hour off. However, if we want to have a vote in half an hour, the roll-call results will not be available until one hour after the meeting. Now you have to decide for yourself. Half an hour? Yes, if we are going to vote now, we have a problem of conclusion, so you make the decision, I would like to vote, we have big problems because we are not concluding. [[...]] [[...]] Mr. Tank says one hour, you say half an hour. That's why I have a special memo. We stick to the rules and do it in half an hour? It's just a list. Look, I'm going to decide my own time use and I'd do it in half an hour, unless there's any special resistance. Okay. Then the vote You know what, we'll compromise, the vote is at 5:15. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u300	Dear Members and Members! We're moving on. Before continuing, I would like to inform you that I have been informed that the voting facilities are in order. All I'm asking is that you insert your card and double-check, if everything's all right, I mean, on your side. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on society. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There were 51 votes in favour, and 51 votes in favour, 11 against 37. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. 57 Members and Members, 12 votes to 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to Article 6 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 8. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 18 to 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities to Article 10. Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u301	I repeat that this article is more open to third reading also because, in addition to the content issues, it also has serious nomotechnic errors.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u302	We're voting. The vote is under way. The key is in front of you, Mr Vote 64 Members and Members, 20 to 43. [[...]] [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the amendment of the parliamentary group of national communities to Article 10 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. Of the 65 Members and Members, 17 to 44 voted in favour. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 26 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. 65 Members and Members, 21 votes to 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will vote on the draft law on Tuesday, 30 May 2006, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on public order and peace. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 12, against 48. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the LDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour, 19 against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted for 17 to 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 9. Can I help you, Mr. Squeakle, on behalf of the delegation? In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u303	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I propose that you support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which deletes Article 9, to prevent the criminalisation of enslavement. If you do not support this amendment, I will understand that you support the philosophy that makes the rich rich rich, the poorer should become even poorer, especially if you have to hide them from the rich, and so the police will simply remove them from the eyes of the richer ones by law, unless this amendment is adopted. This amendment and this discussion reflect what is happening in this society over the past year and a half - increasing social differences. With this amendment, and if you would join us in this amendment, you would at least prevent those who have nothing from criminalizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u304	Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I certainly will not support this article. I think that the begging in Slovenia is increasing and it is increasing. And there are more and more who are begging, who even come from foreign countries to beg for Slovenia. That's huge. If a man walks on Ljubljana, these beggars are huge. There's a lot of them in front of the National Assembly. And Mr. Squeakle, if you want to help anyone, take some poor student and give him a scholarship and send the beggars to where they came from.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u306	Mr. Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. I am proposing this amendment, proposed under point 1 of the Liberal Democracy to delete it, and, of course, under point 2, I cannot support it. I can't support it for the following reason. In the debate, if Comrade Squeakl were present in the hall, he could hear the difference between begging and skating. And when some Members of Parliament in this Chamber said that the law defines those beggars who are insidiously and abusively begging - and the penalty is maximumly prescribed by 10,000. And don't tell me in this place, my respectable colleague and colleague, that begging is allowed in any way. In my opinion, colleague Cvikl has never spent as much money as I did myself, and many other colleagues are waiting for me every day in the parking lot in front of the National Assembly or in Maribor in the parking lot in front of the municipality of Maribor. And I give them money, and I respect them because I know what they've come up with this status that I call a beggar or a bum. Much was said in the debate itself. And if anyone feels harmed, he must be given the opportunity and the opportunity to turn to the police, to have someone approach him in an intrusive or offensive way, and to demand money from him. Most of the beggars and bums I know are respectful, and in a correct and fair manner, they beg for money, and I find the law's dictates appropriate. After all, those who are insidious and abusive do not get what they want from a decent person who has money, and surely sooner run into negative consequences than positive ones. But whoever can do it in his own way and gets it, we can make sure of it in the parking lot in front of Parliament every day, and we feel that it is appropriate for the basic dictatorship to remain as it is written.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u308	Mr. Bostian Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u309	Thank you for your word. Of course, I myself will oppose the amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, and I will support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party Group. Today, there has been quite a debate about these amendments. We also said, and I would point out once again, I can tell the difference between chit-chatting and chit-chatting. Slandering is a way of life for me, for which someone has made up his mind for such and other reasons. Why he was forced to do so, you will probably know first and foremost who oppose this amendment and have been in power for 12 years. But all those who have so much emphasis here on "uicum" in Slovenia that it criminalizes begging. Let me tell you that in 1999 France - and everyone likes to compare it when it comes to your benefit - decided to decriminalize it, but in 2000 it again made it criminal. It is said to be a criminal offence, to the extent that six months of imprisonment is envisaged for the begging, for the organized begging, offensive, where human rights, among other things, are being violated, as we discussed earlier in the morning, when Gypsies use children for these purposes, and there is also a 6-year sentence at stake. And such an arrangement is correct and might need to be considered in order to introduce it in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u310	Mr. Willie Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u311	The content of Article 9 of the Law is not acceptable to me either, so it should be corrected or deleted, which means I am in favour of the amendment. I do not support him because I would be overly concerned whether now the beggars will be poorer or not, I support this amendment because it eliminates discrimination. Discrimination, however, is that this article, as it is now written, prohibits begging in an intrusive and offensive way if someone is harassing me. Others who are not mentioned may, however, harass me abusively and abusively. And I spoke earlier about this being allowed to all those who are either political or religious, either commercial or any other agitators or promoters. So did they! They should also be subject to the same prohibition that no one should be harassed in an abusive and abusive manner. So that's what this is about, and that's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u312	Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will also support this amendment and thus demonstrate that I am for the greater freedom of the beggars, that is, the people of the fringes of our society. I do it out of compassion, and I also do it out of compassion for these people. Plenty of times in the morning, in the early hours, there may have been some, even in my taste, with violent behavior, and what you want to bring to me, but because I didn't know when I got there, they slept in a woodshed, they were completely drained of alcohol, they shook and they wanted to get, as we call it, their dose in the morning so that they could somehow survive. Otherwise, I say that I am moving around a lot, and I have never stumbled upon the fact that it would not only be possible to shake the words of such an intruder or just to say the word. So I've never been in any kind of, under the terms, "life-threatening." It seems to me, colleagues and colleagues, very nearly to start over these poor people to make it more comfortable for us to send the police, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u314	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 Members and Members voted in favour, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 9. Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Previously it was said that people of compassion and mercy were to be allowed all forms and methods of begging. It is necessary to be aware - those who have ever dealt with this issue and studied it would find that every day they collect up to 100,000 tolars and more, which amounts to much more than is paid by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. We know the case of a gentleman with a very good car from Kopra arriving in Ljubljana, changing into torn clothes and aggressively begging and then driving back down. We also know other things, a system of begging with different prosthetics, artificial hands and the like, which is related to the continuation of criminal activity, when, with the other hand that is healthy, he steals from pockets and pockets and similar things. This is what we want to prevent with this amendment, and so we demand that those who are begging in this way be deprived of the tools with which they are doing it, usually artificial prosthetics of hands and the like, and collected money. The fine of 10,000 tolars will be paid with great joy and will then carry the matter forward, for if he collects 100,000, he will still have 90,000 left in his pocket. That's why I think it makes sense to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u316	Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u317	I'm not calling to support this amendment, but I'm going to oppose this amendment. Both amendments show the great diversity in this national assembly, what individuals would do with those who would or for those reasons are already forced to beg. I think that what a fellow Member proposes reminds me of the difficult decades of the previous century and I will oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u318	Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u319	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support this amendment myself. One picture was presented, and the other picture was the one we talked about, and I say goodbye to all those colleagues we were sitting here at the time, and I say to everyone, on the basis of this, it will be possible for someone who plays on Chopo Street to get on their nerves, to turn him in, to say that he can't listen to it, and to this poor guy, if we accept it, they'll take the harmonica and that hat there - whatever he picked up on that day. I think this case is also one of those to convince you that this amendment would not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u320	We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 3 to 60. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I'd like to ask for peace. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 17. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u321	With my explanation, I would like to draw attention to this article because it has not received any attention within today's debate, which, of course, surprises me. We propose including monuments and markings among offences that are of value. We are talking about vandalism, a very current problem, which is being exposed several times today. In fact, the article says that those who intentionally harm, overthrow, remove and so forth, especially public infrastructures such as municipal infrastructure, lighting, road signs, as well as children's playgrounds, public facilities and so on, can be punished. But there are no memorial features listed here, and I think vandalism is very common on the memory marks, so we should listen to this amendment and probably feel quite uncomfortable if you don't support it. I'm going to take a look at the list, because vandalism on memory labels is very common and you like to condemn it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u322	Thank you. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 59 in favour against 5. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 17 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 19. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sure the LDS will be against this amendment, because it appears to be building the next local voter campaign, but I think it's still a small population. I think it makes sense to raise this sentence to 100,000 tolars. After all, I've already told you why, and I don't think you need to repeat the arguments. I will vote in favour of this amendment and I think, colleagues and colleagues, it makes sense to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u324	Thank you. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour, 5 in favour, and 61 in favour. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SLS and NSI to Article 22. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 40 to 22. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 28. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 54 in favour against 7. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding a second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] The proposed decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to point 15. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Assembly will vote on the law on professional and scientific titles on 30 May 2006 in the framework of the votes. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on freshwater fishing. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 36. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 25. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 49 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 54 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 74. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to Article 74 improves this law and, above all, forces the government to act as all citizens must behave; it is said, legally, that it imposes a deadline on it to adopt sub-legislative acts, because this is one of the key and constituent elements of the law, but not to do so as in the field of hunting, where, despite the adopted law, the government does not intentionally issue sub-laws. And so I think that the adoption of this article is one of the essentials, and please, if you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u326	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u327	Thank you. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a third hearing at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-25-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Is there a procedural proposal? There's no explanation. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 18. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 3 May 2006, after the end of the vote. The choir services will prepare a review - I'm sorry I haven't finished yet! The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
