ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Please take your seats. I begin the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ivan Jelen, Franc Kangler, Maria Possonec, Jakob Presečnik, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Franc Sušnik, Janko Weber, mag. Janez Kramberger, Breda Pecan by 2 p.m., mag. Franz Capuder from 15 o'clock on. I invited the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all the agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 29 September 2006. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I note that there is no problem with the voting devices, so I suggest to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are too few Members and Members present, so we will repeat the vote. Vote, second time. I find that, for the second time, not enough Members have declared their presence, so I am adjourning the meeting. However, all Members and Members of Parliament are requested to report to the Chamber in 10 minutes in order to ensure that the agenda is concluded. We continue the meeting at 10.15 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are continuing our meeting. We are ahead of the vote on the agenda. We're voting. This is the third time we've voted on the agenda. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to agenda one. At the outset, I would like to remind you that I have received a proposal or letter from the New Slovenia Group of Members that it did not report as a group of Members in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of its time or that it did not report as on behalf of the Group of Members. As part of the time available, this will also be rectified and the representative of the Group of Members may also give an opinion within his own time. We're moving on to one. That's a first-hand proposal for a law on income. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, with a group of 10 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank demanding that the national assembly hold a general discussion. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Minister, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u3	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You are looking at the first draft of the law, which is part of a package of tax laws submitted to you by the government for consideration and adoption in the context of tax reform. The proposal for a Income Act is a fundamental legal act which taxes the income of natural persons in Slovenia. The basic objective of the bill is to reduce the tax burden on the active income of natural persons with income. We propose that the burden should be achieved mainly by increasing the taxed part of the income, namely by increasing the general relief from EUR 2522 to EUR 2800 and by reducing the progressiveness of the taxation of active income, through a different structure of tax classes, reducing the number of tax classes and reducing the level of rates. With regard to the proposal for tax rates, the government has made a significant shift towards reducing the number of tax classes and reducing the level of the highest rates. The scale will differ from the applicable scale with five classes 16, 33, 37, 41 and 50% on three tax grades with rates of at least 16%, then 27% to the highest of 41. I would also like to point out that, in the lowest grade in the proposal, we also propose an increase in the number of debtors belonging to this first class by 8%. In addition to the basic starting point, the government, when drafting the bill, also led to the knowledge that the tax system must be easy to implement both for taxpayers and for tax administrations. Simplification of the system also reduces the cost of collecting income, which is not negligible from the point of view of providing funds. Your Honor! The concept of individual income taxation is based on the principle that part of the activity income is taxed synthetically with progressive tax rates and the other part of the property expenditure individually at a proportionate tax rate. The following are the individual essential changes in the individual types of income. The section on income from employment simplifies to provisions relating to the relationship between the employer or the contracting authority of the service and the worker or person who has taken over the management of a particular work or service. That's article 18 of the law. It also entails a substantial simplification in the determination of income from each business as income from employment. The debtor receiving income from a working relationship from abroad, I repeat, the debtor receiving income from a working relationship from abroad will be given the opportunity to apply a reduction in the tax base for the cost of nutrition between work and transport costs to work and from work. We propose in the previous provisions that this principle should apply to the calculation of income in 2006. In the case of income from the second contractual relationship, the tax base, in addition to the standard costs of 10% of income, may also be reduced by actual transport and accommodation costs. A new pension will also include an early retirement pension for farmers. Several changes are envisaged in the area of business taxation, some of which are also due to the regulation of the new company law. First time. Doing business will be simplified for a larger number of taxpayers with a higher level of income, with an increase of EUR 10 million from the current 6 million, up to around EUR 42,000, an opportunity to decide on the tax base on the basis of actual revenues and standardised departures. Standardised expenditure is set at 25%. Special exemptions for standardising expenditure are provided only for agricultural and supplementary activities on the farm and for the activities of domestic and art craftsmen. Another time. Establishing a tax base and tax exemptions for independent entrepreneurs will in principle be linked to solutions in the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. Third time. The provisions relating to the cessation of activities will be in line with the new Company Act, which regulates the cessation of the business and the status of transformation of the entrepreneur. Fourth time. In order to improve the liquidity situation, the obligor will be able to take into account in principle the overall relief and relief for the maintenance of family members when calculating the income from the activity. Your Honor! Income from basic and agricultural activities will in principle be excluded from the activity's income. The overall activities of agriculture and forestry will also allow a voluntary transition to the identification of the tax base on the basis of actual income and expenditure or on the basis of standardised expenditure. For the first time, for tax purposes, a farm will be designated as an economic establishment. In addition to establishing the tax base on the basis of actual income and expenditure, such a particular farm may also choose a way of determining the tax base on the basis of actual revenues and standardised expenditure, and must meet the criterion that the income per family member does not exceed EUR 42,000 over a 12-month period. In line with the treatment of the farm household as an activity and the recognition that an activity can actually be carried out by one or more members of the farm household, the annual tax base of the farm household will thus be taxed to the operator of the activity as if it were divided into all members who are pension and disability insured under the heading of agricultural and supplementary activities. Also for income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, the law provides for an important novelty which should treat the farm as a whole and provide for tax treatment of income from members of the farm household by appropriate regulation in other areas. This will give the farm the status of an economic establishment for tax purposes. The tax treatment will thus be aligned with the other tax treatment of income from other economic activities. This approach is essential in terms of simplifying the operations of taxpayers and tax administrations. The number of pledges that will report incomes from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, that is to say cadastral income, will only be reduced to debtors who have at least a potential of more than 200 euros per farm or have at least 40 bees per farm. 70% of the taxpayers will be under this heading. The law regulates more appropriately the taxation of revenues from the production of wine and olive oil and beekeeping, which are considered to be a basic agricultural activity following the new proposal, while maintaining the same way of determining the tax base as was established by the amendment of the Spring Income Act, namely in 2006, as a multiple of the cadastral income or flat tax base. The tax treatment of income from renting and transfer of property rights in general remains unchanged. Your Honor! Significant changes in interest, dividend and capital taxation were already made in autumn 2005 and therefore in the proposal for a law, taxation remains generally the same. The interest exemption remains unchanged, except in the case of interest under the savings contract under the national housing savings scheme, as the exemption in this case extends to contracts concluded for at least 5 years. According to the origin of the long-term taxation of capital gains on securities and other equity shares, the definition of dividends is substantially changed. As a dividend, income from the following transactions will no longer be taxed: from the nominal increase in the company’s core capital, to dividends of similar income as defined under the applicable law, with the exception of profits distributed in relation to debt securities that provide participation in the payer’s profits. This income is taxed as profit from capital. In accordance with the definition of dividends in the proposal for a corporate tax law, a covert payment of profits will be taxed as a dividend. All other benefits, namely the product, services and other benefits received by the debtor as the holder of a shareholding in a company not covered by the definition of a covered payment of profits, will be taxed as a second income under Chapter II of the Income. The definition of capital under Chapter Capital Profit remains the same as under the applicable law. In part, the definition of capital withdrawal will be complemented and the definition of transactions that are not considered to be capital withdrawals will also be partially modified. Dividends are taxed at 20%. Interest continues to be taxed at 15% in 2007 and at an untaxed part of the bank interest of 150,000 or 626 euros, and at a rate of 20% in 2008 and subsequent years, at an untaxed part of the bank interest of 500 euros. The rate of degressive taxation of capital profits according to the period of ownership remains unchanged. Dear Members and Members! Indemnities remain the same as under the applicable law, some exemptions are added to them, such as exemptions for first-solution subsidies, civil protection preparedness income, accident insurance payments for rescue workers, cash compensations received on the basis of the right to be tried without undue delay, benefits for the provision of social security care, post-mortem benefits, Natura 2000 income and the so-called EU Water Directive, payments on the basis of property damage insurance related to the conduct of basic agricultural and forestry activities. There will be substantial changes in tax reliefs as an increase in overall relief is expected in principle to compensate for the administratively difficult relief in force. First time. The overall relief will increase by 11%, from EUR 2,522 to EUR 2,800 and is still envisaged as a reduction in the tax base. It is also appropriate to adapt the special relief granted to beneficiaries of pensions 14.5% per 13.5 pensions received. Another time. Special reliefs for dependent family members are proposed as a reduction in the tax base in the amounts fixed for 2006 and valorised by the estimated annual cost-of-living growth index on the basis of the adopted 2007 and 2008 budget memorandum. Family pensions and income from work through student service of a student or student are not taken into account in the assessment and status of a dependent child. For children who are unable to work in accordance with social protection regulations, an increased relief will also be granted after 18 years, regardless of age. Third time. The student's allowance is set at the level of general relief and is no longer conditional on the student's income. Fourth time. Special personal facilitation for independent and cultural workers and independent journalists remains unchanged. They have the right to further reduce the tax base at 15% of their revenues, up to EUR 25 000 per year. Among the current facilities, the removal of personal relief to residents after 65 years of age, the so-called senior relief, and the deletion of relief for various purposes under Article 112 of the Income Act and the relief for paid amounts to solve the resident’s housing problem 141a. Article on the law on income, which will be replaced by greater overall relief and slower progress. The possibility of self-declaring taxpayers for the purpose of part of funds for generally beneficial purposes, which is normally supported by tax relief, is derived from the law through the so-called retirement of part of the income or the purpose of part of the income for donations. Payments intended for general purposes by residents shall be subject to tax under the applicable law in Article 112, under which the income base may be reduced for such payments but not more than 2% of the individual tax base. This relief is replaced by a new instrument in Article 142 of the proposed law, whereby the resident taxpayer can devote up to 0.5% of his income by law a certain general benefit and purpose and thus determine the use of his income. This new instrument will also include the possibility of a dedicated part of the income for the operation of political parties and representative unions. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We propose that you take the view that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice welcome to everyone at the beginning of this session. I want a nice day, even though the rain is foretold and even though there may be some pickles in the debate. Otherwise, it may be right to determine first or continue the frequency of the treatment of tax legislation, since the intervals are shorter than six months. This probably means, on the one hand, that we cannot find the best solutions, on the other hand, a great deal of interest in this area, but also that it is one of the key instruments in addressing the state budget and living in our state community. It is important that we are aware that when we talk about the tax area, we are talking about something that requires reflection on the scope of our work, because this is manifested in very different and diverse areas and it is right to think about the consequences in all these different areas, so it is also right that we are trying to put this proposed legislation into some of the basic documents that have been adopted or proposed and to say very briefly the following. With regard to the Coalition Treaty, tax legislation has not been given any special, very extensive attention, but it could be said that, both by content and by the scope of the text, it is actually more marginal, although much of this area was expected. There has been a significant increase in the use of words, proposals and measures in the context of economic and social reforms, where it has been shown that the drafters had an ambition that could be called radicalism. It literally says that radical reforms are needed in this tax area as well. Today, we can look forward to seeing that radicalism has retreated. For how long, I wouldn't have hoped to predict, but this moment what was predicted is not on our tables. There may have also been a major mistake in the fact that the proponents of these radical reforms have too much to bet on mechanics, on some mechanical consequences of individual measures that are intended to result in economic growth in themselves, in better technological equipment, in new jobs, in higher added value, and I do not know what else and, of course, also in the better social situation of citizens and citizens in general. This mechanism, I think, has scared me that this is no longer on the table and that we are talking today with more calm proposals and even with more calm tone. But there remains a feeling - probably this feeling will also show up later as a fact - that it is still a matter of continuing social dispersion. That this is not as bad as expected or even predicted, it probably has great merit for social dialogue as it has been, but it has proved to be not only necessary, but necessary. Also in order to prevent any shock therapy in this area, for example, we have been promised. Perhaps the best thing that has been done in these last months or years is that these radical measures have not been implemented. The best part of this debate is what is left in the drawers, which is no longer in the debate. For this reason, we also support this approach in the DeSUS Group of Members, which is more calm, which puts more emphasis on dialogue, which also relies on social sustainability, which is also such that it promises to be stable, but developmental direction, growth in Slovenia. In all of this, we are counting on the fact that those flaws or holes we are talking about being made by measures such as are envisaged or are recorded in the estimates to be implemented. Therefore, there will be an appropriate depreciation of those holes that promise individual measures. The Income Act, which we are now talking about, brings a whole range of good solutions, also brings some flaws that we will mention later, but we estimate that the time for additions, for comments, is enough for changes, however. Good or at least like are the wages that speak of the thousands of small tax donors who will receive those who are in the lowest tax rates. It is good or desirable that it is predicted that, without an excessive problem, it will be possible to make up for the shortfalls through a body of higher VAT, which implies higher production, higher consumption, and thus better standards for all last so that economic growth will contribute to this and that the profits will also be higher and thus more profitable, and thus those who will help solve the problem. It is also good that there is a promise or forecast to invest more in research and development, to partially relieve capital or to partially reduce those taxes on profits, to legal persons’ incomes. It is good that there will be a whole type of simplification, clarity, perhaps even that foreign investment capital will come more easily and faster to us and accelerate economic development. Some things are such that we need to ask ourselves if these promises are appropriate. For example, the promise of black work is now that about a quarter of all gross social product is created by black work. It may not be possible to just collect or extend tax bases as much as it would be possible to collect or collect taxes from all those who would be liable to pay, such as that, perhaps this tax debt will be reduced, I don't know if they hold and how much they hold the estimates that the unpaid taxes are about 200 billion. And I don't know how many of these 200 billion could be collected, because then some other measures could probably be nicer. Of course, it is most important for that third measure to be implemented within the framework of tax reforms, which speaks of a country becoming more rational, more efficient and more cost-effective. We wish her the best on this journey. It's not good in this law. which, at least in the parliamentary group, some others, we have also criticised in previous amendments to such legislation, and we have in mind the already mentioned interest taxes today. We do not agree with this, we will propose different solutions, we do not agree that much of the interest on denationalisation bonds is non-taxable, we do not agree with accelerated decommissioning, because indeed many will gain little, but the differences will be greater than they have been before. And it would probably be possible to take a step further at tax rates, not only from 39 to 41, but perhaps a lower tax limit could be further reduced and raised. At least we shouldn't expect those who have or have high wages to go out on the street because they'd charge us some tolar more. So we estimate that although the law is favored by many small tax donors, it is more favourable to those who are already in a more material order. Whether it is possible to change or not, we do not hope to predict it. However, we are predicting in the DeSUS Group that we will try to contribute to this. Otherwise, we consider that the proposal of this law, as well as of others, is well enough to be able to receive our support on the way to further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u7	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome it all very well. The Coalition has agreed to achieve, in the field of tax policy, long-term set long-term objectives that it is also trying to implement through individual amendments to these laws. The fact is that we have agreed to reduce the cost of the country, to increase the competitiveness of our economy and to reduce the burden of work. I think these are important things. By increasing the competitiveness of the economy, this will have a direct impact on economic growth itself. The existing law was adopted in 2004 and has been in force since 1.1.2005. Since then, there have been quite a few changes and additions that have in some way followed this main orientation that we want to achieve with the tax policy in the coalition. Major changes were made in 2005, when a systemic change was made that not all revenues were taxed in a manner, revenues were divided into active and passive revenues, and the way in which taxes were taxed was different. In the case of active income, we find relief and have a progressive tax rate, and in the case of capital or passive income, we have decided to introduce a new system of proportional taxation, which is said domestically for the first year 20%, then 15, decreases by 5% every five years, after 20 years this rate is 0. This is one important change. Previously, the interest on passive income or taxes were practically dependent on the progression in which each individual took part is said to have been taxed from 0 to 50%. As a result, if we look at the structure of the income itself, what they meant in the revenue structure in 2005, they amounted to 0.07%, the real negligible amount was, although the tax rate was relatively high, but before that a specific rule was that after three years of ownership taxation was zero. We have thus substantially reduced ourselves, but we have ensured some place of normal and competitive taxation of capital. We expect that the share of income from income will increase from this heading, so that we can reduce direct work expenditure more rapidly. Of course, a number of changes have been adopted since 2004 until now. Above all, we have added new and new incentives and also methods to reduce the income base for the calculation of income. That is how I think it is necessary, on this occasion, to position income in the public finances and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in some way. It may be said, however, that 394 billion tolls of income were collected in 2005, which went directly to the state budget of 256 billion and directly to the municipal budgets of 35%, which is just over 140, about 140 billion tolars. Since part of the income is directly intended to finance municipalities, it is 35%. If I compare in the mass of all the public revenues that were 2869 billion tolars in 2005 is around 13.7%, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] means the income of all the public-financial revenues, which is a significant part. [[...]] In comparison, for example, a year ago, it has already been shown that the share of income in total government revenue has fallen in 2005, for example, compared to 2004, when income from income was 382 billion, total public consumption, expenditure, public expenditure, and revenue was 2683 billion tolars, i.e. around 14.1%. With these changes that have taken place, I have an important matter to say. Not only would I talk about income, but if we're talking about economic burdens, it's an important change that took place last year, it's a gradual abolition of taxes on paid salaries. This tax was also a rather important source of budget charging. For example, revenues amounted to around EUR 111 billion in 2005 – 126 billion, we expect about EUR 111 billion this year, we know that we have passed a law that eliminates 20% of this tax every year and will be zero in five years. For 2007 we anticipate 95 billion, for example, from these revenues in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia itself. When we talk about all these changes and new things that we are introducing with this proposal for income into our system, I would say some things when we have listened to a variety of comments, social dispersion and so on. Of course, that's not entirely true. Surely no one will gain anything that has not paid any income now. We know that the current scale was, at a million, 300 began to pay income, up to a million three hundred was 16% and it was still quite progressive this scale. In the second grade we're talking about 33%, in the third grade we're talking about 38% tax, in the fourth grade we're talking about 42% tax, and in the fifth grade we're talking about only a small percentage of all of them, we're talking about 50% tax. So the new scale is significantly different, not only in the final work, but also in the intermediate payment classes. There's something else I'd like to say if I'm in on this relief. All of these reliefs, as much as they make it easier for children, as well as all the other reliefs, have had the opposite effect. Of course, 2% and 4% of one million is 40,000, 16% of that is almost zero. 4%, or 20 million, are significantly different, but 800,000 tolars. And of course, when we add 50% savings to someone who has such a burden, it comes in very different ways. At one 400,000, low wages. And also for family members, we have a system where they gain more, or save more, who have higher incomes. This has been arranged in some way to reduce this proportionality in some way. And the differences aren't that big. I've heard a lot of comparisons that one can buy, I don't know what kind of cars. I'll give you a banal case. I've calculated on 25 million wages that someone has 20 million incomes or tax bases to save up to 1,066 thousand dollars a year. Of course, he would save if he had not previously exercised any relief or had nothing to do with it. Under the new law, reliefs have been deleted. And 2 plus 4, if deleted, if this is not taken into account last year and not this year, it is said to be comparable on the same basis, it will save only 440,000 tolars. If two children, where the opposite of these calculations work, or two children, the difference in their income payments is only 346,000 tolars, if for example three has only 290,000 tolars. So, at 20 million, I went to an extreme option, and we can't count these revenues or expenditure on different classes. The scale has changed and we now have the beginning of a scale that is taxed at 16% following a new proposal of EUR 6 000 800. That's 1,624,000 tolars. According to the old scale, it meant a million 300. So the real thing is different. The second class from 2 million 540 to 5 million 140 was already taxed from 33 to 50%. The new income scale has only three classes, 13,600 is the second grade. This class is taxing 27%, which means in tolars, because we're disturbed by the appearance of these comparisons, because now we're going to talk about the euro, and we're probably going to be hunting in these things for a while. As I have heard before, the general relief is not EUR 2,522, but it is EUR 2,350, because EUR 564,400 is EUR 2,350, not EUR 2,500, and it is now increasing to 2,800. The relief for family members remains about the same. The differences in the scales are a little different. Nevertheless, this new law, which is passed in addition to collecting wages from or from whom and from where businesses will become burdensome, will make us more competitive and we cannot say that it goes directly to pay. Any employer can therefore lower their personal grades, anything. Everyone will act as if it will not come directly and in the new employment all together. This excessive workload has been a burden for our economy and has had a significant impact on the competitive capacity of our economy. It affected the fact that foreigners did not invest here, it influenced, in particular, Lek's example, that the difference in the price of a highly educated worker due to the cost of the country in each calculation shows that, for example, the development centre is not worth setting in Slovenia precisely because of this. This is a thing, this is a fact, and we must continue with this workload policy. This is probably one step that will absolutely reduce certain things. I think he cut some extremes that were abnormal, that continuing to lower taxes on paid wages would actually contribute to this. Of course, we are also following another factor, another important element, which is in the coalition, perhaps mentioned too often, the share of public spending needs to be reduced, the structure of public finances' revenues needs to change slightly, we need to generate more revenue from some other sources. All I would mention is a comparison of the corporate tax. We can see from the data that in 2005 we have won 142 billion tolars from this title, for this year there are 228 billion tolars from this title, and in 2007 there are 269 billion tolars. This year's revenue is projected to raise 280 billion tolls of budget work plus municipal work is totaling 425 billion tolars, but the structure is changing for 2007, but income from income is projected to decrease by 77 billion tolars, but this should take into account the transfer between municipalities, as another funding system is envisaged, directly from the budget. It is said that this fundamental objective of reducing the burden of the economy and the second objective of reducing public consumption is being pursued. We have done little here, and there will be a need to find accelerated sources of taxation or to reduce consumption. I have only mentioned the income from capital, from the profits of legal persons, probably also in the so-called non-tax revenues of the country. The State is still directly the owner of large capital, large assets, which would probably result in some higher tax revenue in the state treasury in a different way. However, it is likely that much more will have to be done to reduce the cost of the country. The State is practically investing in empty, but there is no income from its investments, which is a major damage in state and municipal matters. All investments that are self-sustaining should be removed from the State budget, saying that they can generate income on the market and can be repaid from this income. In these cases, the State should actually act by helping to bridge the financial obstacles, with guarantees and longer-term debt. Some things in the proposed law will also be proposed by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to complement them. It's some small things. We are pleased, however, that 500 euro of untaxed interest remains due to simplification of procedures and less administration in 2008. So there's practically 90% of these small deposits or the holders of these accounts will be excluded from the income. Of course, a certain cadastra is also excluded for agricultural activities, which will not have to be declared or taxed. There are many things that reduce administration in the preparation of income forecasts themselves. The content and purpose of the law are slowly crystallized. I believe that it will be possible to achieve this objective only by signing an income decision, which, if we do not agree with a particular item or is incorrectly introduced, which is also one of the objectives, is a major simplification. In the case of normal taxes and those which every citizen is willing to pay for the operation of the State, there will be not a variety of ways of avoiding taxes, but people will report themselves. What they think is normal, they usually pay what they think is abnormal, but they don't pay. The clear evidence was the taxation of capital with a progressive tax scale which had the result of tax collection of this capital 0, the capital went out, no one was stupid enough to pay more than it was necessary to the State. However, if these things are normal, it is also possible to expect citizens to act in such a way as not to avoid paying taxes. Simple procedures, of course, also allow for easier control and control. As I have already said, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will propose some minor additions and we will continue to pursue these basic objectives that we have set ourselves or in the coalition: yes, to increase the competitiveness of our country, to reduce the taxation of labour itself, to reduce the cost of the country. This is the only possible way, because if there are no large costs, then taxes are lower. The structure of our budget on the tax revenue and expenditure side will have to change gradually over the coming years. We will probably be pleased if we reach our goals, as we have set them for the time being, we can be satisfied with the things we have achieved. We know that there has been a significant increase in the investment momentum in the economy, that these small steps have already affected the wealth of our economists in investment, that opportunities for foreign investment have already begun to emerge, and that there is a normal functioning, I would say, of the market system itself. We will support, but we will add certain supplements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Thank you. Mag. Anton Rop will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u9	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government. Today we have a package of tax legislation ahead of us. In front of us are 7 changes in the tax system and tax policy, which we have just heard, according to the SDS Group of Members and, of course, also in the Government's view, are interesting in reducing tax burden, simplifying the tax system, decommissioning the economy, we have heard even lower public spending, increasing the competitiveness of the economy and, of course, faster economic growth. All of these are objectives that are defined, which are in principle good, that we can support and believe that all citizens and citizens in Slovenia will be supported at any time. Of course, it is a question of whether the solutions ahead are such that they lead in this direction. At the LDS, we believe that with the proposals before us, most of the objectives so defined will be extremely difficult to achieve. On the contrary, some of the proposed solutions will make changes in other areas, such as labour law, significantly more difficult. We believe that the social dialogue that agreements on labour legislation will be significantly more difficult when these laws, which are before us today, are legislated. It will be significantly harder to negotiate, to discuss the flexibility of the labour market on reducing the cost of lunch, on transport in part, on allowances at work. After these solutions are legalized, when these proposals that you think are so good are adopted. Among the proposed tax laws, according to the scope and type of changes in terms of the financial, redistributive and structural consequences, there is certainly the most important proposal of the Income Act, which is before us today and which we consider to be the first. The proposal for the Income Act makes the most important changes, as well as the apparent changes in the existing tax system and consequently the tax burden of the physical taxpayers. Tax progress is decreasing. This is not bad in itself, the question is how it is reduced; namely, that, after a new one, those in the highest income classes will be significantly less taxed, those with the highest income, those who have paid relatively high income after the current regime, even so. Thus, under the current regime, 0.6% of all taxpayers with an average effective tax rate of almost 42% receive 5.6% of the total income and pay 15% of the income. An analysis of the Institute for Economic Research, which was commissioned by the government, suggests that the proposed changes in the estimated 38 billion tax deficits will be nearly 60% of the reduced tax, about 22 billion SIT, leaving 20% of the wealthiest employees or 20% of those with the highest wages, and 30 billion, which is practically a total tax drop, in 40% of the employees with the highest income. At the level of individual taxpayers, that means that those with under-average salaries will have between 600 and 700 tolls per month, and those with the highest wages will have more than 100,000, 200,000, including 300 thousand tolars per month, or one million, or two or more tolars per year. These are the concrete consequences, the concrete changes proposed by the government proposed by the coalition, the changes that will become legal under this law. Even if we take away all the other negative effects of the proposed changes to the Income Act, many questions are being asked about these changes. Are such differences in tax reduction really necessary and meaningful? Are they really the best? Is it really necessary to devote 30 billion Slovenian tolls for some who have 10, 20 million Slovenian tolls per year to have another million, two million wages? Are these really the best solutions? Will this really reduce when we have heard and listened to the government, the tax burden of the economy and increased competitiveness? Will this really reduce the tax burden on the economy? It's hard. Did the government really not remember a cheaper way to reduce the progressiveity of taxation? Was this really necessary so that, at the same time as this tax reduction was taking place, it was necessary to reduce the benefits for the students, for the pensioners? Whether it was really necessary to tax interest on all Slovenian savers and to maintain this tax at the border, as has been said proudly, EUR 500, with a significantly higher threshold in our neighbouring countries. That's what we've been alerting the government to. We have proposed to the government to raise the limit to raise it to a limit that would be closer to the tax competitiveness of Slovenia in this case too. Today, we see that, even through students, even through pensioners, even through those small savers, there is an attempt to compensate for the part of the loss of income that comes about because of what I said earlier. At the LDS, we strongly doubt that you will achieve the goals we are talking about here. We believe that the solutions proposed are not even conceived enough and even less so are possible. Dear Members and Members! Last week, the government adopted budgets for 2007, 2008. It adopted them at a time when EU Member States have recorded one of the highest economic growth in the last 10 years, at a time when we also record almost 12% of real export growth and high economic growth in Slovenia. So, at a time when governments can usually, and also actually, save and at the same time reduce tax burdens. All smart governments do this, all smart governments take advantage of this opportunity. What's going on in Slovenia? In Slovenia we record a record level of public financial expenditure during this time. For 2006, the Ministry of Finance estimates that this will be 44.9% of gross domestic product. In 2004, by the way, it was 44.1 GDP. Instead of reducing public spending and reducing it by 2 percentage points by 2008, the government, as promised, did the opposite. It has raised public financial spending in spite of everything: although we have high economic growth in the EU, that we have high economic growth at home and, despite the fact that you are looking at inflows from the EU, that Slovenia's net financial position has improved significantly. If we had a net financial inflow from the EU in 2004, 0.05% of gross domestic product, we now have or will have 0.85% of net financial inflows from the European Union in 2007. So, literally net inflows, a better economic situation, and we have record public spending. That is why the government on the expenditure side of the budget - and this is now important for our debate - plans to raise value added tax for 2008 from 8.5% to 9% and from 20% to 21%. Otherwise, we can listen to the Minister of Finance, who says that this will happen if necessary; perhaps this will be compensated differently, for example, by spending on electricity, for example, on something else, which will ultimately have to be paid and will raise the price. However, if you look at the balance sheets, then you see that the planned increase in value added tax is planned. This is shown in the figures, as shown in the balance sheets, as shown in the 2008 budget adopted. And once again, this is a rise due to the reduction in income we are talking about today. So we are not just talking about lowering income, we are also talking about what follows the next day: with this - and this is also seen in the draft budget - the government will gain 35 billion Slovenian tolars. So 35 billion Slovenian tolars are about as much as those with the highest wages will gain. Today, we are not just talking about the transfer of the tax from left to right pocket, as some experts have said, which assessed this measure as just a transfer from one end to another, but we are also talking today about shifting the tax burden between Slovenian taxpayers. Over the higher value added tax, higher prices, therefore, those who first gain 600, 800, maybe 1,000 or more tolars of higher net wages will finance those who have the highest wages and will gain 100 or 200 times more via income. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of such changes? With such changes in competitiveness, we will certainly not increase and reduce the burden of the economy - nowhere and never. Such changes are more like a kind of tax fraud. However, such a reduction in income and consequently a rise in value added tax will mean a reduction in the tax competitiveness of Slovenia. Let me point out that the amount of value added tax in the neighbouring Member States of the European Union is all 20%, and in this context, Slovenia is, at this point in time, tax-competitive as regards value added tax. An added value tax raise of 21% means that Slovenia will approach and join Croatia as regards tax competitiveness in this area - without need and without meaning. Let me also draw attention to some of the conclusions and proposals of the Economic Research Institute's analysis, which the government has obviously failed to take into account or has misread, but this is an analysis that it has commissioned. Thus, for example, "Simulations of proposed tax reform scenarios have shown that value-added tax increases have a short-term negative impact on economic growth, while at the same time higher value-added tax rates in all income classes" - in all income classes, I repeat - "define the positive effects of tax reform on household welfare, except for the 5th income class". Well, except for the richest. That's what this study says. Anyone can read it on page 34. The Institute for Economic Research, however, particularly warns that, at the same time as these changes, if they are already being made, there is an urgent need to carry out the planned reduction of state consumption consistently; and, as I said earlier, this is not at present. The actual public spending in 2006 is, according to the Ministry of Finance's estimates, higher than was planned when the budget was adopted, when the budget for 2007 was adopted, 44.1% of the budget was adopted. I would like to know how much public spending will be in the end. And what else does the institute say? If this reduction does not take place in practice, it can only mean higher VAT, as we see already in the budget, higher deficit and economic growth. At the end of this study, in the conclusions of the Institute for Economic Research, he even proposes a solution. I am not saying that it is the best, but it is certainly better than the one proposed and it is interesting to read. In short, it proposes to reduce the form of income changes with the aim of reducing current progression, for example, by abolishing the highest income class and limiting the payment of social contributions to a certain amount of gross wages. This limitation could be carried out within a few years, thereby allowing businesses to further reduce labour costs, in fact allowing companies to work at the cost of the most educated part-time force and, at the same time, disincentivising the payment of income in forms that are not burdened by social benefits. So these are the proposals of the Institute for Economic Research and it is interesting to read them so that we can understand more clearly the context of the income proposal that is ahead of us. Therefore, honourable Members, honourable Members, the changes in the tax system, especially the Income Act, and also the corporate income tax, which we will talk about later, which are before us, are far from reform changes that could have an impact on economic growth, competitiveness and greater efficiency of the Slovenian economy. In our view, the government and the coalition are losing a great deal of opportunity to make the moves they could make. We have high economic growth, we have high inflows, we have relatively low inflation, we meet the Maastricht criteria, now could be the easiest time to save, to lower taxes and maybe even achieve more in a development breakthrough. After two years of major discussions on reforms, we have a record public financial spending and a proposal for an income law that does nothing to reduce the tax burden of the economy. The Income Act, which, together with raising VAT or excise duties - nevertheless - represents a major tax redistribution from those with the lowest wages, those with high - with no meaning and no bad effects, and an entirely unnecessary increase in income inequality and social distribution. The LDS can't support such a proposal for changes to the tax system, as is before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u11	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister with colleagues! We have been studying the proposed tax reform in the Social Democrats Group for more than a month. We have already communicated our views on the proposals in the framework of the partnership for government development, for the first time on 1 September and the second time on 13 September. If the Ministry of Finance had fulfilled the promise and had provided us with calculations and proposals in early July, we would have done so earlier. On 1 September, we requested that the Government ensure that the proposed laws are adopted on a regular basis, as it is only itself responsible for late submission. At the same time, we have found that the basic objective of reforms with the proposed tax legislation will not be to ensure that the proposed solutions do not provide a significant economic burden and increase competitiveness in international markets, but contribute in part to reducing tax administration but at the same time inadmissibly increase income differences. We have asked the Government to provide precise calculations of the effects of the proposed tax changes and to ensure that the reduction of tax revenues, in particular on the account of excessive high wage burdens, will not be reflected in the increased budget deficit or in the requirements for increasing VAT or reducing social disparities. We have proposed that the highest income rate should increase from 39% to at least 42%, possibly to 45%, or with a suitable rise in the entry threshold, or that the current rate of 50% should be gradually reduced only in the coming years, not at the same time. In particular, we requested that all the consequences of the proposed changes in exemptions and facilitations be carefully examined and evaluated so that the taxpayers would not pay more tax than the old system, according to the new system, that is, in the summer of 2008. We have noted that it shows the government's promise that due to a higher level of general relief, all taxpayers will pay less income to re-check. Today there are more and more concrete cases and evidence of how justified these warnings have been. In particular, we have proposed that the corporate income tax rate should be reduced from 23% to 20% at least and that it should be maintained as a means of achieving an effective lower taxation of the economy, which is one of the fundamental objectives of the tax reform. On 13 September, we confirmed our fundamental conclusion that the content of the proposed tax changes is considered an important deviation from the government's reform forecast. We have announced that our continued relationship to the proposed laws is linked to greater uniformity of professional assessments and proposed solutions, including within government circles. We have drawn attention to the increasing variety of assessments of the consequences of the proposed reform for the economy, the budget and the citizens, we have requested readiness to adopt alternative solutions, and we have reiterated in particular our proposals for substantial changes to the basic solutions in the Income and Income Tax Act. In order to better assess the content and consequences of the proposed reforms, we have also organised a special expert consultation with many distinguished experts, as well as with our team, the Minister of Finance. The fundamental point was that the proposed solutions were difficult to assess as a more serious tax reform. While some of them are designed in the right direction, they are neither sufficient nor sure to assess their impact on the situation of public finances and taxpayers. The fundamental question is what the real measure of change is, so no single answer has been given. Let me add, the prepared solutions might be a good starting point for serious, professional and political debates, as the debate on the introduction of a single tax rate would be burdened, which has proved to be a bad solution in the real first serious assessments, but only for the start of the debate, not for its end. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, on the basis of all of this, we estimate that the Government has accepted our demand that laws be adopted on a regular basis, although in a substantially accelerated dynamic at extraordinary meetings. She has provided us and the public with some additional information and assessments and has done very little substantively. Only our proposals for setting the highest rate of income have been partially taken into account, but significantly insufficient. Changes in exemptions and income benefits are insufficient. There is no exemption from investment in housing issues, and the situation of pensioners, especially those over 65 years of age, continues to deteriorate significantly. Inadequately adjusted interest taxation and retained unacceptable 50% interest and denationalisation beneficiaries' bonds. There is no incentive to invest in non-governmental organisations, with the exception of religious communities, which in all laws have a new, authorised position, not only in income, but also in corporate income tax and even in inheritance and gift taxes. There is no clear estimate of the extent to which, with the solutions in place and the proposed changes in exemptions and reliefs, the income position of taxpayers in individual income classes changes. For us it is unacceptable that those who are tied to the salary, to the average wage, and that is 75% or 825 thousand, average monthly earns only about cca. 700 tolars of benefits. Indebted people between average and 3-fold, average wages per month are between 4,000 and 8,000 tolars. And the seven times the average salary has been 140 thousand tolars a month. Progress then just rises and I can't figure out what was said today that at 20 million years' wages someone would save only 100,000, according to ours it's 300 thousand and more. We got the data from the government. Finally, we are not talking about extreme cases where, due to a reduced rate of income, individuals also have to increase their net earnings by a few hundred thousand a month, and the government still claims that such incomes should be taxed only at a 41% rate. We don't know. We really don't know why we can't tax the one with 20 million and we can't tax it anymore. While the law on the income of legal persons has followed our request to reduce the rate from 23% to 20%, this rate does not apply only from the tax base for 2010 but not in the next three years. This is unacceptable, especially since the abolition of investment and job creation benefits, including according to government data, does not reduce effective taxation at 23%, but even increases, all the way to nominal taxation 20%, so we demand to maintain investment incentives and create jobs for first jobs and reduce this rate. So far, we have expected the government to ensure that the new legislation will not increase value added tax in 2008. Instead, the government provided an increased value added tax rate to be included among the sources of the 2008 budget. Although the Prime Minister still claims that the increased value added tax rates will not be expected, all estimates of the 2008 budget tax resources show that there will be an increase, so he proposes not only a minister, but a government that has already adopted the draft budget. However, an increase in value added tax is not acceptable to us in order to significantly reduce income in a more substantial way, as this will not only increase income and social differences but also reduce economic growth and increase inflation, but also the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This can only be a conscious measure of the conservative government, which is strongly rejected by the Social Democrats. Without the austerity programme to cover the government's public deficit and clear real guarantees that it will not increase the value added tax, we must vote against the income law for the Social Democrats. But this is not the only condition, and the issue of social transfers to individuals and households is equally important for us. As early as September 1st, we have informed the government that we strongly oppose any possible deprivation of social rights. At the same time, the government has not given us a firm response, it is understandable that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, probably without the knowledge of the President and the Finance Minister, has prepared a proposal for a law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households, which provides for the uniform coordination of all transfers once a year on the basis of the same basis, namely the movement of prices of living needs, thereby providing savings to public finances on the basis of its own government data: in 2007 1.82 billion, in 2008 3.85 billion and in 2009 6.16 billion. The government will therefore reduce their rights to recipients of social transfers in the coming years by much more than it will burden them with income. This is not acceptable to us, the Social Democrats. We will also have to vote against the proposed Income Act in this case. With regard to the Income Law, we can therefore say that it is not acceptable for us in the proposal and in the concept in question. Until and if the government does not ensure that the requirements to which we point are met, we will not be able to support this law. Under certain conditions, they could support the law on corporate income tax, the law on value added tax and the law on inheritances and gifts. With regard to these laws, however, we expect the amendments that we will propose when we are given concrete consideration. With regard to other laws contained in the package, we do not have such comments and could be acceptable if they satisfy some minor comments. Although it is precisely by amending the Tax Procedure Act that at least one of the fundamental reform objectives has been achieved, this is a reduction in tax administration, and there are also proposals that will require a specific assessment, such as an example of an end to the relative limitation due to long-term judicial proceedings in the case of complaints. And let me finish. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our view, work on tax legislation cannot be completed by today's meeting. In a lot of things, it's just beginning. It is a pity that it could not have started earlier, since there would be more time and possibilities for mutual clarification as well as for consistent changes. But please, especially the government, do not be deaf to serious warnings and suggestions. Do not say that there is no time or possibility for more serious comments and changes. That's not entirely true at first. However, as far as it is, you have blamed this on the government when it was already six months after it was clear to everyone that the concept of a single tax rate could not only be politically accepted, but that it was not an economic solution, that you were scaring it and wasting time in which you could look for better solutions together, unless it was a conscious tactic, that it would be as little time as possible for the proposals you made. Finally, we know how powerful your power is, we know that you can carry out tax reform without our votes, with the votes of the government coalition, so we are counting on your wisdom, because you are aware of the political charge and the great economic impact of tax reform, always and everywhere, in all countries, even the smallest, especially the one that changes the tax situation of all the debtors, even though for a smaller amount. We all know that the time of truth always comes at taxes. What is consciously or negligently silenced today comes on the day when new tax decisions are shared. Let's think about it and find better solutions. It may also be necessary to reflect on the recognition that reforms are unthinkable and not comprehensive and that they persist only because of the political promises and criticisms of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! By deciding to increase prosperity in Slovenia in the context of economic and social reforms, the decision to change the tax system is also taken. On the basis of the analysis, complex, sectoral and macro-effects of tax reform and social transfer reforms, the Ministry of Finance has drawn up a proposal for a tax reform that is optimally acceptable in order to achieve the objective set. The tax reform seeks to bring about a decommissioning of the Slovenian economy. The new laws reduce the administrative costs of companies and their operating costs. This ensures conditions for its greater competitiveness in global markets. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that an efficient and transparent tax system is the place where the reallocation of social income can be done most fairly. The economy and other sectors that create new value must remain strong and willful for further growth. According to recognised experts, tax changes are so imposed that we can promise ourselves that this is not only a positive redistribution but also a tax burden. The tax savings on paid wages and corporate income tax are estimated to be around 130 billion, about 2% of the gross social product per year. This is more than just a negligible tax burden. We are also convinced in the New Slovenia Group that there are unfounded allegations that tax reform is not a reform at all, but that it is a change that may not even justify the costs of its introduction. We need to compare the current changes with the tax situation in 2004 when the government changed. Radical changes, as suggested in the reform document, have proved to be less effective in concrete calculations than predicted. Any single tax rate would exacerbate the situation of the first three income classes by paying more income than it is now. Of course she would have won the upper two classes. The first revisions to tax legislation in 2005 were due to the dissatisfaction of economists and economists. The legislative proposals take further account of the experience of both the economy and tax administrations. Major changes could have consequences that would not excuse them, while their feasibility is also questionable. Tax reform is one of the most important components of reform measures, but not the only. Only in combination with other measures, such as social transfers, will it achieve the effect that is planned. In the New Slovenia Group, we want to supplement tax legislation by achieving better cooperation between the economy and research institutions. The purpose of such research is mainly to achieve the early integration of students and young researchers into development and research activities and to ensure, in the long run, a high technological value that has a positive impact on the environment. We therefore particularly welcome the research and development benefits that we face in the Income Act and in the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. Our attention and approvals are particularly welcome simplifications. First retained special taxation of dividend interest and capital gains with a 20% rate. The exemption from interest on savers shall also be maintained. This is how we maintain the decision taken in 2005 on the cedularity of the interest on dividends and capital gains. This novelty is to be maintained, although the reduction in tax rates reduces the progression of income. Our capital market must remain competitive or attractive to investors. Many changes in tax legislation in the past have resulted in imprudent laws. Various influential lobbyists have established their power and introduced in legislation facilities that prevent transparency and simplicity. In the New Slovenia Group, we are working towards an adequate tax burden for people working in separate professions, crafts and entrepreneurship. In particular, in the case of the Income Act, these changes are particularly sensitive. The most obvious are: the taxpayers who carry out the activity can determine the tax on the basis of 25% of the standardised expenditure, up to a threshold of 10 million tolars. The new regulation is the taxation of farms when the taxpayers do not reach EUR 200 of the cadastral income or 40 stumps. The determination of the tax base by standardised expenditure is maintained at 70% of the revenue generated. In addition to the increase in general relief, which will compensate for the loss of 2% of personal relief in the majority of the debtors, at least this should be mentioned. Debtors who receive income from a working relationship abroad will have the opportunity to take into account the costs of transport and nutrition. 0.5% of the income may be earmarked by the obligor for generally beneficial purposes. Although concern is that coherent regional development is regulated by other legislation, in the New Slovenia Group we would also like to encourage the development of regions that are far behind the Slovenian average through the prism of tax legislation. Empirical research by the Ministry of Finance has shown Slovenia and comparable countries that investment incentives have no impact on greater or additional investment. Analysis for foreign and Slovenian countries has shown that tax incentives increase investment by less than they decrease tax return due to facilitations. That is why in the New Slovenia Group we would tie investment relief only to regions that are most lagging behind. In the New Slovenia Group, we are against raising VAT and contribution rates, while at the same time we are against a simplified and stimulating system of taxes. It is necessary to simplify the system of taxes and to ensure the effective implementation of budgets through a more transparent collection of taxes and contributions. Efforts must be made to reduce the burden of the economy, reduce public spending and save state institutions and better and more efficient functioning of public institutions at all levels. Thus, we can reject the evidence that, due to the lack of public revenue resulting from the changes in tax legislation, in particular income, there will be an increase in the public deficit. Tax policy and incentives should encourage new development projects and ensure initial investment in SMEs. We are confident that further discussion will indicate any other solution that will need to be heard, including those that we have prepared in our Group of Members. The real success of tax reform will be when there is no increase in value added tax and not an increase in the budget deficit. This can be done mainly by reducing public expenditure and more just taxation when we all pay taxes. This will also make it easier to achieve this by simplifying legislation. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party's Group has always stressed the importance of a fair but at the same time stimulating taxation of the income of natural persons. We are pleased that there is a first reading of the proposal for a law on income, because we believe that this is a law which must be adopted as far as possible with the widest possible consensus of all Members and Members of this national assembly. Tax reform, especially in the field of income taxation, must be broadly designed, well thought out and widely accepted, both for citizens and for the country. In our view, poor legislative solutions in the field of taxation are very harmful in the long term, although they may have some positive effects on the short term, particularly populism. We are in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and will always stand for solutions that will benefit both our citizens and the country in the long term. In this respect, we were pleased when the Reform Committee was formed last year, which prepared a framework for economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia. This framework, which was later adopted by the Government, also contained important proposals for solutions in the revenue taxation segment of natural persons. The Slovenian People's Party has constantly monitored the work of the Committee and prepared a convincing tax reform and supported good solutions and measures, particularly tax relief and administrative simplification of the tax system or tax procedure. Our basic starting point prior to the preparation of the reform of the Income Law was based and is still based on the assumption that income must be spent primarily on social elements, which means that relief must be raised for an existing minimum at least to the level of income that enables a person to live with dignity and survival. In addition, it is necessary to allow the taxpayers to make more explicit use of the evidence of the actual costs they suffer from income-generating. We must therefore avoid administrative determination of the tax base and thus enable the taxpayers to be taxed for those parts of income remaining after the deduction of the costs they had by generating income. We are still assessing that the income scale is too low, which means that we need to raise the thresholds for the income scale mainly for the first income class, at a comparable level with the other countries in the region. Otherwise, life in Slovenia, due to excessive tax policy, will not be attractive and the debtors, who will get a better chance of living elsewhere in Europe, will go away. However, Slovenia has lost important potential and important staff. We estimate that this would not be worth it, because for the common good everyone in our country is important. Special treatments should also be given to families, as they represent the basic building block of our society. Family is one of the most important segments of people's lives and must have a special position, which is also tax-stimulating. In this regard, we have always advocated the introduction of family income elements in the Slovenian People's Party. Unfortunately, we note that this element of tax policy remains unfulfilled and, as so far, our important task remains to further address the law in question. Our further efforts are aimed at taxing capital gains and income from property and the recognition of pension benefits. We believe that more emphasis should be placed on making it possible for those who are committed to themselves and their families to take care of their security and financial autonomy. This also relieves the state budget and, last but not least, the pension fund. The debtors will thus have the opportunity to choose their own way of saving and thereby increase their financial autonomy, which ultimately leads to financial independence and freedom. In this way, the debtors assume part of their responsibility for their future, which is long-term good for both them and the country. They should therefore be recognised for higher pension benefits in terms of recognition of pension premiums or plans, in order to promote their own savings of the debtors, which is the best way for each debtor in their own way of life. Finally, we believe that the income system, both material and procedural rules, must be consistent, theoretically intact and capable of optimal implementation in practice. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope to adopt such a law that will not have to be amended before it begins to take effect, as we had to do with the law adopted in 2004. With these basic positions, we also assess the proposal for a law on income that we are considering today. In our view, the bill is a good basis for further consideration, as it contains a large part of the starting points that we have always advocated in the Slovenian People's Party. This relieves the economically weakest members of our society. The proposal of the Income Act substantially increases the so-called general tax relief and is socially more equitable than the current law. This is also confirmed by all the simulations we have made, so it is realistic to expect that those who receive only active income will be less taxed compared to the current income system. We can therefore agree that the Income Act will improve the economic situation of most taxpayers. We further assess that certain corrections are also necessary in the context of income from assets and capital gains. A significant novelty in our legislation introduces a proposal for a law on income by providing for taxation of interest. We are aware that such proposals are based on the requirements of the Income Taxation Directive in the form of interest payments, but we believe that the proposal is still not fully optimal. We estimate that a certain part of the interest, which is equivalent to inflation, cannot possibly be part of the tax base. We believe that this part of the interest would be better taken from the tax base, thus reaching the tax base which actually represents the income or increased economic power of the taxpayer. In particular, we welcome the resolution of the proposed law on simplification, greater transparency and clarity and administrative simplification of the income system. Compared to the current law, the government has drawn up a theoretically good and practical text that will also make it possible to use it more clearly and thus make a significant contribution to greater tax fairness from this point of view. Thus, the law is significantly improved, and the general work clearly defines the taxable person, the source of income as well as the subject matter of taxation. Regrettably, however, it must be concluded that the determination of the subject matter of taxation in certain segments is not entirely acceptable. Thus, certain categories of payments which are by their nature not income are not exempt from taxation and therefore cannot constitute an element of the tax base. These are certainly all agricultural policy measures. These measures were only included in the tax bases under the 2004 Act, which began to apply from 1.1.2005. The Slovenian People's Party had already pointed out that these measures do not theoretically or practically fall outside the tax base or tax revenues. For agricultural policy measures do not have the nature of income balances. This is particularly clear in the actions envisaged under the new financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. These will, for the most part, be measures directly related to improving the state of the environment, conservation of nature and biodiversity. It should be borne in mind that all the measures envisaged are going in the direction of environmental management and that there are no measures which would have the nature of income imbalances. It is therefore a payment to an agricultural holding which cannot in any way be qualified as the income of a farmer or a taxable person to pay the income. According to the data available to us, the tax burden on agriculture will increase by about the end of 2008 compared to 2004. 600%. This increase is due to the increase in tax revenue from agriculture, which was approximately 2004. 3 billion and after 2008 it is expected to be at a low level of 20 billion. The Slovenian People's Party would agree to such an increase in the tax burden only provided that the other economic situation of farmers would improve for the same percentage. Unfortunately, according to the Institute for Agriculture and Agriculture, we need to find that the economic situation of agriculture is deteriorating especially after 2004. Let me give you some concrete information. In 2004, agricultural crop prices in producers increased by 1.1% compared to 2003 and the measured inflation was 3.4 and by 4.6% as real as in 2003 and 12% as low as in 2000. Prices of plant crops fell heavily by 12.7%. In food production for significantly less than 0.4%. The deterioration of the economic result is attributed in particular to the adverse natural situation in agriculture, changes in the markets in agricultural products and the introduction of new market mechanisms for sugar beet, sugar, milk after Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The comparison with the 15 countries of the European Union also shows that the real price index of agricultural products in Slovenia after 2002 is lower than in those countries by 10 and was only 85% of the average in 2004 for these European countries. In addition to supply and demand, market pricing is also affected by the level of direct payments and payments for rural development. Thus, in accordance with Article 7 of the Act, the determination of the cadastral income of KD is determined on the basis of certain purchase or market prices for agricultural and forestry products. This means that payments of agricultural policy measures are already covered by KD at a certain level and that additional taxation of these payments is unfair to these people. We are probably all aware that agriculture in the environment is of particular importance, it is true that only a few percent of the people in our country are involved in agriculture, but these few 10,000 citizens care for much bigger territory and for food and other people in the Republic of Slovenia. We do not know how to imagine countries that, due to some financial exploitation, would tax people who are doing socially beneficial work, and in theory very much with contested measures. This is what Italy, Austria and Croatia have already learned, and these are countries that have significantly lower burdens on active income and do not tax agricultural policy measures, but their budgets are therefore not at risk. We will therefore not accept in any way the argument that the controversial taxation of measures is necessary in order to provide budgetary resources. We cannot accept the fact that, by exempting ourselves from the taxation of "farms" whose KD is lower than 200 euros - these are exempt from taxation - that, and thus, the situation or status of farmers in the new tax legislation will not deteriorate as it has been so far or as it improves others. In the context of the income from employment, we estimate that the proposal for a law is significantly better than the solution currently in force. We particularly welcome the possibility that most of the costs are recognised in income from the second contractual relationship by following the starting points of the Slovenian People's Party to tax real income, thus reducing the remuneration for the costs necessary to generate the income that you report at the time of the income forecast. In the context of the income from employment, the system of evaluation of the working relationship remains very complex, namely for the use of service vehicles for private purposes. In view of the sources of tax reform in the simplification of the system and in view of the reduction in the income scale and the increase in the general tax relief, we estimate that it is necessary to simplify the evaluation of these ratings so as to prevent tax evasion as well. The revenue from the activity contains important news that we welcome to the Slovenian Parliamentary People's Party. Thus, the simplification system will be corrected; the key shortcomings of the current regime are corrected. The same conclusion applies to income from agricultural and basic forestry activities. Nevertheless, or in spite of all of this, we feel that the theoretically good system needs some minor corrections. We therefore estimate that the thresholds for the transition from flat-rate to actually established income from basic agricultural activities and basic forestry activities should be slightly higher. The starting point should be that two jobs are provided on each farm. We also stress that the proposed changes on thresholds do not affect budget revenues negatively but, to a large extent, positive. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also particularly pleased with the solution that allows profit to be determined on the basis of actual revenues and standardised revenues, but we believe that this partial flat-rate system should also be comparable to market conditions. The amount of the standardised expenditure is the one which flat-rately determines the tax base. Given the labour intensive sector, it depends on the amount of the standardised expenditure, so it is not appropriate to set the height completely on average and for everything in fact the same. The Slovenian People's Party also well assesses changes in the area of capital income. The proposed system of taxation of interest and dividends is significantly improved and will help to move capital faster. However, the proposed system of taxation of capital gains is better and worse at the same time. Better in the part of standardising the recognition of costs relating to the acquisition and disposal of capital and the possibility of transfer of the identified loss in advance. However, it is worse in the part relating to the abolition of the revalues of the acquisition value of capital. We agree, of course, that the proposed system is simpler, but the elimination of revalues must be compensated by a new definition of tax rates, in a way that incorporates both the expected inflation and the promotion of longer-term investment into the reduction of tax rates. However, we have an extremely important reservation in the Slovenian People's Party's Group regarding the proposed law, which we have identified in the area of facilitations for the maintenance of family members. For several years now, we have all come to realize that this relief is not fair and that the real maximum reduction brings to those in the "lowest" income classes, while those in the lowest income classes are almost unable to benefit from it. Such a situation is not appropriate for the formulation of appropriate family policies and the promotion of births. Such a finding has also been drawn up by the Reform Committee and, consequently, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where they propose the abolition of concessions and the introduction of tax credit. With great disappointment in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have come to understand from the proposal that this part is not real in the law itself. Therefore, we will prepare amendments to the envisaged income reduction allowance by giving a clear signal that every child is important for our country and especially for every family and that all children are equal in this country. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also note that tax policy is one of the most important segments of economic policy, which creates an important part of life in the country and which has a significant impact on the decisions of the population and the economy. As we have already pointed out in the introduction, reckless measures are therefore neither acceptable nor admissible. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will prepare or supplement a substantially improved law which, in our view, is crucial for a good tax system and which will enable good development also in segments that have probably been neglected. However, the Slovenian People's Party will not allow the situation of a new tax law or income law to deteriorate to anyone in that country. On the basis of the above, it is estimated that the proposal for an income law is a suitable basis for further consideration and therefore will be supported by the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group at this stage. The proposal for an income law is more than necessary both from the viewpoints of domestic tax policy, tax practice and everyday life. The bill thus solves some of the key issues of the current income law and at the same time enables Slovenia to have a broader, fairer and more neutral tax base, as is known by the current income system, which has experienced quite a few corrections, and even after some statements, not so long ago, such a good marble law or tax legislation. In the light of everything we say, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will give a positive voice to the further consideration of the Income Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u17	Your Honors are here! If we can define as determinants the development of consumption, investment and government or government, then we can basically say that the last G, which denotes the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in our case, is the most important. According to our assessment, so is fiscal policy, i.e. the tax policy we are talking about today, as a monetary policy in the domain of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or in the later domain of Parliament, which confirms proposals coming from government policy. And if monetary policy, i.e. the monetary policy of the Republic of Slovenia, can be said with certainty that it is linked to European finances in relation to the forthcoming common monetary policy, then with just that certainty we can say that fiscal or tax policy is in the domain, in principle and in the decision exclusively the matter of the Republic of Slovenia or, rather, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and later in the validation phase in Parliament in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the Slovenian National Party Group's assessment, both macro-economic policy instruments, where fiscal policy is at the forefront, have been very poor in recent times. Why I'm saying it's not going well. For the first time, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has deceived us for two years or, rather, for two years, us and the wider Slovenian public with the so-called single tax rate. If ever, then today we can confidently claim that the period of the speech on the uniform tax rate was misleading, then we can confirm this with evidence of both the involvement of trade unions and all other political parties. According to our assessment, the government has been trying to create some sort of manoeuvre during this period, so that later, when it comes to increasing value added tax, it would still be a lesser evil than a greater evil. And if you allow me to touch that, it is our assessment of the most important law in the context of the so-called tax reform. At its first presentation of this set of tax changes, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that no citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, either in physical or legal form, should act as a person or as an undertaking, would be worse off after the implementation of such tax reforms. That was the first starting point. The second starting point, based on the words of government representatives, was that the ratio of tax and non-tax revenues would not change in favour of tax revenues. But some time ago, we came to conclusions when all those interested in these changes were involved, not first or second or second, and it is not true that some layers of citizens and citizens will not be worse. A number of things have come to the seat of the National Party's parliamentary group, according to our assessment of the fairly credible interpretation of the tax reform mentioned above. Let me put out just one. In particular, it was said that no one in our country would pay any more. It's not like that. According to the calculations made by the tax advisors club, the issue of the category of citizens and citizens over 65 years of age and whose only source of income is pension should be highlighted. Pension amounting to 2,902,625 Slovenian tolars. According to that assessment, which comes from this institution, which has made concrete calculations on the basis of the proposed tax changes, it is clear that this layer of people who do not have a large amount of money will be far worse off than it actually was, more of these layers or groups, however, that I will not offend anyone. Allow me to show you the calculation of this population of Slovenian citizens and citizens. The withdrawal or shift from 14.5% to 13.5% in other words, taking into account other allowances for more than 2% means that this layer of citizens, instead of the exemption of income, or, say, payment of 1 Slovenian tolar, as stated for income in 2005, will pay more than 30,000 Slovenian tolars. It is probably not a Member or a Member who does not agree with me that the difference is essential, whether someone pays one tolar or pays 30,000 Slovenian tolars: especially given that we know which social category it is. The following has been repeatedly exposed, or at least by the Slovenian National Party, to require a number of corrections during the discussion. One of these, and according to our assessment, is an integral part of a set of tax reforms, as well as this, is taxation. According to our assessment, investments are a source of progress. Investments represent the activity reflected in the year, two, three, perhaps even five years after the implementation of this cost, as represented by the investment. And if we can agree with the Prime Minister that economic growth in a given situation in the Republic of Slovenia is good, we must also be aware of why it is good - simply because of the high level of investment that took place in the Slovenian economic area in the past. Tax reforms proposers in a given situation are abolishing or reducing investment incentives. This means that future economic growth will not be as much as it is now. And given what depends on economic growth in our country, we can say with certainty that the government does not do services to itself or to the Republic of Slovenia and not to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, if it reduces the available resource in the field of investment, or the source that individuals are prepared to use for their own calculation, the economic calculation of investments. However, allow me to point out, as far as taxation or consumption is concerned, the consumption of natural persons within the Republic of Slovenia. Consumption is an integral part and consumption depends on the available funding on the basis of the individual form of liquidity of these assets. The fact is that banking is one of the rather liquid forms of financial availability, depending, of course, on the time frame of the bond. According to our assessment, such an approach, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is unacceptable, i.e. lowering the value of deposits in banks. In fact, this intervention, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, wants or does not want to do, but by doing so they are definitely reaching every newborn who would receive, at least on behalf of the individual local community, at least on behalf of any of the relatives, when he receives a journey of more than EUR 500, of course, the country will then tax. I do not want to be populist about this measure from this city, but it seems to me that on the part of the tax reformers, especially when it comes to the taxation of the youngest, who are far from 18 years of age, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is using such interventions. We have proposed two additions in the National Party. For the first time, we expected elasticity in the context of the responses or willingness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to talk, especially in the part that talks about income or the part of income that an individual may have. According to our assessment, allowing 0.5% of the amount of income and indicating the individual’s individual needs is, of course, welcome. We also consider the financing of the Roman Catholic Church or other religious communities. But on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we know that today we have a law on religious freedom, which is at that parliamentary stage that we can call a deadlock. Dear Member and Members, no supplement has been adopted in the second reading. This means that we can no longer correct this law in the third reading. This means, in other words, that religious communities will be subject to double, multiple funding through the help of this law. And if the motto is, if the motto of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is transparency, then with certainty with the tax change mentioned above and with the law mentioned above, we cannot impose it. So this kind of multi-funding that this law now provides not only that the richest legal entity is the Roman Catholic Church within the Republic of Slovenia, but we allow this to be the strongest or richest legal entity. I would like to highlight another dilemma that we have also addressed to the Ministry of Finance in the National Party, but of course we have not received the answer from this address, as we have not received any answer to the questions raised so far. In particular, the social note of the tax reform mentioned above. The fact is that Slovenia, or should still be a social state, is a country of justice. The country where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should ensure and take into account the unequal situation, the unequal material or material situation of citizens and citizens. If, on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia rewards a certain part of the people, then it would be right to reward equally those who do not follow, unfortunately not because of their incompetence, but because of the system that governs our country, in order to have the same degree, the same amount of people who live below the minimum. The fact is that the work where the government of the Republic of Slovenia claims that we will all pay less could be attached, but only until we look deeper. It has been repeatedly pointed out that with this tax policy, and this is also the truth, a certain class of people who do not have political and capital links with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the coming years, as far as this kind of tax legislation is obviously adopted, are subject to a minimum financial incentive. The fact is that people who are capital, political and friendly with the government will be represented by large sums of money - either annually or monthlyly. From this address, we have also doubled or offered a solution in the form of a social approach in the National Party to the government, unfortunately again unsuccessfully, due to the government's lack of response, so that the individual income class would also be accompanied by an individual income relief and that this income relief would be a mirror image of the income class. Therefore, unless it is otherwise possible for those with at least one income, their tax relief would be greater than those who, of course, make or receive large revenues, but also from this address within the National Party's Group of Members, we have not received an answer. To conclude, allow me to stay a few minutes with my fellow Members. We can say with certainty that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is poorly applying the fiscal policy tools or instruments. We can say with certainty that in the coming years, the gap between tax and non-tax revenues will continue to increase for the benefit of what is bad for people, i.e. in the interests of tax revenues. If, as early as 2000, at least members of the Slovenian National Party have shouted categorically in this National Assembly that we have too much tax in our country, then it will be possible to ensure that, on the basis of the budget gap envisaged by the said tax change, the taxes that citizens will have to pay will be even more. And now, if I touch on the projected budget deficit that was before the 30s. The Minister of Finance and Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ensured that it will not be covered through an increase in value added tax, and today or last week we can all see together that this tax, an increase in the tax already incorporated into the budget or in public finances for 2008. With certainty, the bad government, which covers its costs, the costs of the state administration and the other costs incurred in its work, is covered by higher taxation. In the National Party, in raising taxes for citizens who are already overtaxed in one way or another, in our country, they are too taxed, we will not land. We're not gonna play this game. This is simply not right, it is not right not only to the term of the social state, but it is not right for citizens and citizens. Our task, as of course the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is to serve citizens and citizens. It's not his job to serve his circle of friends exclusively. If Slovenian policy continues with this type of work, then we can expect tax revenues to reach almost 100% of the total budget in 2008 and in the coming years. In the meantime, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has had proposals since 2004, and I believe they come from all parliamentary groups, but I definitely know that by the Slovenian National Party, it has a way of increasing the recent revenues, i.e. that part of the revenue that does not generally bind all citizens and citizens. But why does the government of the Republic of Slovenia refuse to accept the concession talks? Why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not want to accept a discussion on the duality of large companies, public enterprises with shareholders? Why does the government of the Republic of Slovenia not want to discuss in this national council the purchases from the sale of state property? The answer is in the palm of your hand. Because it's a lot easier than that to increase taxes. Because it is much easier to find in the National Assembly some thinkers or those who blindly follow government proposals than to resent their rich friends. According to our assessment, this is an extremely bad policy and the government of the Republic of Slovenia is making a poor policy with such moves, and it is also working on an uncreditable policy. Here I'm going to relate to my introduction, especially when people are afraid of a single tax rate. We have occupied this intimidation both in Parliament and among the social partners, and in the background it increases or anticipates an increase in value added tax instead of a single tax rate. It's basically the same thing. Citizens and citizens will pay more taxes, more taxes on the functioning of Minister Bajuk, for the functioning of the Slovenian government and for their incapacity, I believe. We do not intend to support such proposals in the National Party, as is the result of the proposal for a law before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Thank you. I hereby conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! What the parliamentary group believes about the proposed law has already been said. Allow me, however, to touch just one thing in this law, which at the outset indicated that it would slip through without any particular attention, and later was touched by quite a few public meetings in the public domain, namely, in making a contribution to the work of income for donations, as defined in article 142 of the proposed law, they considered it to be an indication of the introduction of church tax by the Spanish-Italian model. I believe that the first part of the adjective "soon" will probably fall away because it was heard that the Spaniards were thinking about amending this kind of legislation. Allow me to make a few comments on the purpose of the income. The resident will be able, but not necessarily, to devote half a percent of the income for the purposes for which he will himself see that they are of such kind that he does not devote this part of the income to some, I will say, general purposes in the local community or at the state level, but that he would like to name them specifically. In doing so, I find it particularly interesting that the description of the activities for which an individual may choose is not exactly the same as those that are possible as the exercise of relief under Article 66 of the Law. What's my point? Indeed, humanitarian purposes are mentioned here. Funding of political parties and representative unions as well. Only when humanitarian purposes are more detailed in the second paragraph do I see a derogation in that it is not possible to donate for health, sports, education or social welfare purposes, nor is scientific among them. However, it is, of course, an addition to the purpose of protecting against natural and other disasters, which I believe is a donation to voluntary firefighters, which could be taken into account. I do not see any particular obstacle to the fact that as an individual, I have an impact on what part of my income should be directed. However, I would expect things to be balanced and that the purpose or set of activities for which I can donate would be comparable to those that bring relief to donations. For I believe that people are very sensitive to what they can make a donation as a relief. Since it is not necessary for an individual to decide what he or she is making a donation, however, the selection is a little tight. This, however, must be linked to my concerns in the third paragraph, since it is possible for the Government to determine in more detail how the first paragraph of this Article should be implemented and the list of beneficiaries to be made public under this Article of the Act. Why does this seem particularly important to me? Since a special agreement has not yet been concluded between the government and non-governmental organisations on what conditions there will be for cooperation between them. Indeed, NGOs can have an organisational form of society, and this law already provides for, but it is also specified there that this society must be in the public interest. As the status of society in the public interest is determined, we know. Nor has a law on religious freedom been passed. So it is open whether, for religious purposes, it will be possible to donate only to registered religious communities or to unregistered ones. So, the issues concerning the implementation of Article 142 and the resulting provisions are yet another thing and I would like the government to consider this and come up with a more precise proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The bill that we have on the table today on income is certainly one goal that the government has set itself is the fair taxation of all citizens, who must be our common concern, both governments, Members, coalitions and politicians. It's not a simple model, it's not simple, simple mathematics, but it's a rather complicated thing to do. The revenue of the country on the one hand, the expenditure on the other hand, to find consensus between how and how to collect income among Slovenian citizens, but of course also to have in mind, because the well-being we like to say so, the word is very general, wide, all citizens are as large as possible, it is certainly possible here to balance this requirement quite well. The well-being of those who live on the brink of existence is great in Slovenia, who have problems living on their minimum incomes, wages, pensions and similar incomes from a month to month, of course, is difficult. And it is right that this law here follows something to try to help those weakest members of our society, our citizens somehow, to take where there is more, where it is easier, and to give where there is less. I think it's important. This law has been quite successful in preparing the drafter of this law in this proposal. But it is true that there should be more special concerns here for this population of our citizens who are really walking on the edge of this man's life worth living, I could say. Another important thing we talk about, and we may still do too little, is our families. As a fundamental value, such as some basic cell of society is a family and this should have a special place in these reliefs, in such income matters as a whole as a family, a larger family. I think there might be a few other options here to correct in terms of greater benefits to Slovenian families, because demography, birth data are known; and here, too, this income law should do more in a positive sense so that it can be even more stimulating with what it already is. The matter that is very important to me and partly follows this is the simplicity, transparency, transparency of this law. It would be nice to have a simpler case written, understandable and also easier for people to deliver. I expected greater support for the housing problem, which is extremely important in this society. There are some special benefits not to be seen here, unfortunately not, but I think that there is still time for further discussions to do as well. What I think is crucial is what my colleague said in the presentation of the parliamentary group, but the story that I know quite well - the situation of agriculture in Slovenia is unfortunately, despite all the many measures in such and different ways, it is definitely, it is evident in the space, in the environment where we are. There are fewer and fewer farmers, fewer and fewer who want to engage in this type of activity, and the position of a farmer, Slovenian, despite all the strong measures, subsidies, they are becoming fewer and fewer in the future. I don't think the story's done yet, and I think there's still time, and I hope we will. If we do not correct those professional analyses of the services that have been prepared for this coordination, then not least the Institute in terms of the deterioration of the position of the Slovenian farmer, but, of course, I cannot support it here alone, and I hope that further discussion will also bring about a correction in this spirit, in order to keep this Slovenian farmer alive, including in this area of the Income Law. After all, it is not only a farmer who processes food, but much more, we all know it, and that there are not many in Slovenia, that there are fewer and fewer, but at least those who, also, are part of this society, are part of this country, and it is as important as a pensioner as a worker with the lowest wage, is also a farmer in this group. I hope to say that we will not aggravate the situation of those people who walk on the edge that live on the edge of Slovenian society, and they are also important to us and must be important. I think that this has been taken into account in the law, but there is something that I believe will continue in the debate and that the proposals that we will make in the Slovenian People's Party will also take into account the coalition and, finally, the opposition, because it would be very good for us to adopt this law in a little wider consensus, not just a coalition. This would be good for all citizens and citizens, here to seek further compromises, consensus to further debate on this. I am sure that solutions always exist, always are, only if there is a way and the will to reach the goal. But I think it's this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u22	Thank you. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. If I understood you correctly, the speaker in front of me said that this was a law or reform where it was supposed to be a fair taxation of all citizens. I find it difficult to deny this, my dear fellow Janc, in view of all that we have heard today, despite the words of the Minister, which have been very promising. I'm not a financial expert, but I know so much, and I can read the laws, that there's a lot of holes, or that there's a part of the text that contradicts that statement. I believe, or I am sure, that, unfortunately, this will be felt by citizens and citizens, not by you who have a significantly higher salary than those who work for certain machines in the factory. Unfortunately, these people are not affected by this tax reform in a positive way. You mentioned the housing problem, and I miss the part that would be more specific about solving the housing problem. At my previous regular meeting, I also asked the Minister of Finance a question in connection with the government's strategy for resolving housing problems. I do not see any positive movement in this law or tax reform, unfortunately. And allow one more matter that I will not be proposing in this work that deals specifically with the social issue. And I will thank God and congratulations to the government for listening to the specific problem created by the amendment of the Income Law in 2004. This government has listened, as I have already said, to the current problems and has included, under Article 114, point 5, which Minister Bajuk has pointed out at the outset, that for children who, in accordance with the social protection regulations of mentally and physically disabled persons, will be unable to recognise an increased relief after 18 years, regardless of their age. This is a novelty that has already been introduced into Slovenia's legal order by an old law on income and which was abolished by a new law on income in 2004. Now I ask you, because there is no minister, but I hope that you will put my question to him and that I will also get the answer during today's first hearing session, and I hope that the government will also find so much hearing in this context that it may take a step further. I don't know if you know, but the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia was given an initiative to assess constitutionality, specifically in the part concerning the abolition of special relief or increased relief even after the age of 18. It's about physical and mental harm to children. In 2005 and 2006, i.e. two years when these people were unable under the Income Law to enforce recognised increased relief. Whether this government intends to, and this should also be my initiative, within the framework of the transitional provisions as well as to provide that this provision is to be taken into account, in short, in the fifth paragraph and in paragraph 5 of Article 114, for the two years mentioned, 2005 and 2006. Let me stress that this is a category of people who cannot actually help themselves and are actually in real need of assistance, including in this context. I would like to point out once again, thank you for the fact that the government has found so much obedience and has listened to people who, with the amendment of the Income Law in 2004, were without assistance or without the recognised increased relief they had until the entry into force of this law, are in short two years, for 2005 and 2006. Once again, I stress that these are physically and mentally affected people who are not least entitled to the country's listening and also to the aid. Thank you very much and thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u24	Thank you. Does he want a representative of the government? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to answer that question. As I understand it, this case is settled for 2007 and, in fact, this facilitates the recognition of children or persons with disabilities who are over 18 years of age. For 2005, according to the annual income calculation, it is in some ways difficult to do this, while for 2006 it seems more likely that this is because the decisions have already been completed for 2005. However, this can be done through specific provisions for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, mag. Wide. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The existing tax legislation is the result of the past interests of different lobbyes and allows for all too many exceptions and has therefore become opaque and to a large extent poorly operational. That is true, we can see in the consideration of income forecasts this year for 2005, where the tax administration is faced with a number of problems in this area and with a lot of difficulties in dealing with income decisions. And the result is a lot of unnecessary effort on the tax administration and dissatisfaction of citizens who have waited so long and so long for income decisions and who had to justify their data. Politics is the art of possibility. We have had the opportunity to intervene more radically in tax legislation, but the result is what we now have to deal with and what we will talk about today and tomorrow. This is a compromise that is as it has been achieved, and the possibilities for more radical changes have already been suppressed in my opinion by various powerful lobbyists, who have in fact wiped out every debate already in the Cali. The law on income or tax legislation was only published when the Minister published it, I was surprised, adopted, almost possible to say euphoria. Then came the rain of comments, which, among other things, are tended and some are not real. At this point, we are considering the Income Act and I believe that this law is pursuing its objectives and the main objective is to reduce administration in this area and not to reduce social benefits; and these two objectives are, in fact, being pursued. In support of this, I can also mention the concrete fact that in the past all too many forecasts have been made to the tax administration because there was no censorship in the cadastral income. We all know that the cadastral income in the vast majority was very small, somewhere up to 10, 15,000, which did not have a particular impact on the final calculation of income. Those who did not otherwise need to invest in the income forecast had to invest this small amount and thus caused, clearly, an abundance of administrative work for nothing. Another issue that I think is going to come up with approval for all taxpayers, which is that the advance preparation of the income forecast is forecasting, so that we can only review the forecast and communicate any comments to the tax administration or not if we do not have them. This will lead to significantly lower costs and greater satisfaction for the taxpayers themselves. We all know that no one wants to fill out some forms and worry about timely broadcasting and then worry about what else to do before the tax decision is issued. I am surprised that today, or at this point, when we consider income legislation, much is said about value added tax. In recent days, we have heard how value added tax will increase in 2007. Today these claims are no longer available, but there is much talk of how the value added tax will increase in 2008. Even though we are considering the point of income, we are trying to talk about things that are not actually the subject of this point. If I remember correctly, we have this point next in line. I think that these speeches are not well-intentioned, that they are largely misleading to the public and that it is not worth talking about at this point about certain consequences that we do not even know whether or not they will be, even though in the past we have experienced many of the demanties of Mr Minister, who we have all given him here a mandate to take care of public finances and to behave responsibly, we want to encourage him to do something. I'm sure he's aware of it, as well as all of his crew, who'll make sure it doesn't happen. Although I think it's fair to say that there are options, only if there are no other options that can be taken advantage of. Personally, I say that we have a better income law ahead of us, and I expect you to tell those who have much to say how inappropriate it is in the debate how to improve this law. And I am sure that Mr Minister and Government will certainly listen to good proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. Franz Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Since the whole package of tax legislation is being adopted in the course of these days, it is not possible in the debate on one law to pass solutions in other laws, because it is only a comprehensive consideration and, above all, when these laws are adopted, the consistency of the solutions and their consistency ensures the best economic, social and public financial effects. The fact is that at least some of the proposed laws are a kind of binding vessel and there is a significant link between them and their consequences. The proposal to reduce the number of income classes as well as a certain reduction in progression does not, in principle, appear to me to be controversial. However, the solutions proposed are both socially and economically questionable and some even unacceptable and require a thorough reflection and debate, both of us, Members and Members, and then probably an additional reflection by the government. The type of solutions in this proposal, as well as in some other proposals, is good enough not to give the impression that everything proposed is being assessed as negative. Of course, it is worthwhile and reasonable to stop especially in matters that seem to us to be the best, even controversial or unacceptable. A tax gift to those with the highest income, which is often not the result of over-average good work, but in a number of cases due to the monopolistic or oligopolistic situation on the market, will not contribute to greater economic efficiency. Exceptions can be mainly made by independent entrepreneurs and individuals who will agree to a reduction in gross wages, which will then lead to a direct decommissioning of the economy. The budget deficit is over for around 35 billion, and there is no excessive discussion on how to replace it. On the other hand, they are already present, for the last few days we have heard, predictions about minimum wage requirements and even proposals for freezing certain salaries, which could certainly lead to erosion in hopes of a stable, consistent payment system in the country. The government should therefore take the warnings seriously and amend the proposals, in particular at the entry thresholds in the lowest and possibly in the middle class, and, however, distribute tax gifts more fairly when reducing progress. There has been a lot of talk about social consequences and dispersion and probably will be, so I will not talk about it, but I will focus mainly on some other issues. I believe that such behaviour - for example, raising general relief even more than is proposed now - could also reduce the pressure on exemptions or additional special reliefs for individual purposes. In reducing the current progress, consideration should be given to what we as a parliamentary group and a party have already proposed, a slightly higher rate, for example 45%. Which is similar to what they have for us in a comparable country, the neighbouring state of Austria and Italy. Consider also shows greater marginal progress for a smaller part of extremely high and often unjustifiable income. Let me give an example from the table we have in explanation in the introduction of the bill - Italy has the highest rate, taking into account additional, regional and possible local taxes, of a rate of 44 to 45%. Austria, for example, has more than €51 000 in income 50%. That's what we have today as the highest level. It is unacceptable and unconvincing to say the most responsible representatives of the government, as we have heard in recent days, that in the market economy the government has no influence on wages and wage contracts and other ratings, especially when the country is a major or important owner of public and other infrastructure. These companies are also an important example of a number of other economic and non-economic operators through wage and other remuneration policies. I therefore propose that the Government reconsider its comments and proposals and prepare some more appropriate solutions for the second reading, thus avoiding the risk that in the near future individual laws should be amended, since the stability of the tax system is of utmost importance both to the economy, especially to potential foreign investors, to public finances and ultimately to all citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u31	The first impression is very favorable, the predictions are promising, because the vast majority of people are gaining; but it must be said that some are gaining a very large, in fact an enormous gift, others are gaining very little, so that they will hardly notice with the naked eye, and others are losing. And let me just quote in taxi a few comments, in which direction discussions will take place at the late hearings of the DeSUS Group. We certainly do not agree with taking certain reliefs for young people, mentioning a 5% number, because if we translate it into an absolute number, it's thousands, it's not much anymore. We do not agree that taking is easy for older people over 65 years of age, who are said to be only slightly less than 3,000 who will get less or who will be more burdened, but also much, it goes into thousands. Therefore, we will also pay attention to these figures in the future, and if we hold to what is foretold, we will oppose this, as we will oppose that the tax gifts for denationalisation bonds would be too high to impose interest on those who are saving. We believe that saving should be stimulated, not overtaxed, and we will also oppose the reduction of housing facilitation, so our comments or suggestions for improvement will go roughly this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all together and thank the President for having chaired the session so far. However, we continue the debate and I invite Mr Kontic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Any change in income has so far been in the stage of acceptance and, of course, later, when it was established, has raised more questions than answers; and nothing will be different this time. Many times later, we found out exactly what we have adopted and later resolved in the tax package, including for EU membership. The system chosen this time by the government is, of course, very special. A radical change was announced, there was a street, there was a protest, and then we got what we have now. Of course, if there were no trade unions last year, we would probably be talking about a single tax rate right now or before. The problem with this legislation, or the amendment of the Income Act, is that the government is acting in a way that offers something to all, including those who receive the least, very little, but for those who have much, much more or much less, because we are talking about income. Of course, we all know that the country is costing and that taxes are for the country to function. In particular, it costs the social state, but Slovenia's decision to be a social state has been adopted, and this must also be respected when adopting legislation. Therefore, it would be necessary to maintain or reduce, not at all once, the income or rate at which the taxpayers who have the highest income fall, in particular by filling the cash register, from which social rights are then drawn for those who may have lost their game in life or who have problems each day asking themselves how they will survive. It is true that it is very important that the tax system is simple or at least is simpler than what we have today and that we are, in fact, when we meet the income forecasts, all the bad will already a few days before that is a few days after I do not speak when we also get the decisions. But more than that, of course, is the important height that is written in this decision, and even if the income forecast is very simple, just for signature and if there is to be more to it, it will not be the best solution. At all stages of adopting and amending tax legislation, we are talking about income, I have felt the country's actual generosity every time I have pointed out that it is necessary to change the accounting system and, of course, accept the exemption for disabled workers. For the part where they receive a disability, there has been no hearing in the previous government, and also now, except that the system has changed, we remain the same. I still don't see that in other incomes from which no income is paid. When we talk about income, it is very important that we know that 35% of income is allocated to the financing of local communities, which by law are then obliged to implement social policy, to pay unemployment insurance, to subsidise pensions. And speaking of rents, this pressure could probably be reduced in a way that would help to solve the housing problems of young families, encourage or preserve young individuals, but not now that we have said that they are included in the overall relief. This is a mistake because the pressure on the housing quota is almost high in all local communities and, of course, we do not contribute to alleviating this pressure. If I wanted to be a little bit or try to be a little funny right now, and I would say that I'm comparing previous tax legislation with current or applicable to the future, I'd say that I'm comparing or looking for a difference between a visit to the new year of Santa Claus or Santa Claus when you're choosing who's supposed to visit you, but you don't have a choice because they're both coming with an empty bag. I already understand that certain changes in income are necessary, but it is really necessary to use all knowledge and knowledge from the past and to draw up quality tax legislation, i.e. the Act amending the Income Act. The one we now have on the table is not, in my opinion, a suitable basis for a good marriage, which could then be valid for several years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Please, if you could just keep your phones quiet. I invite Mr. Kovacic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! The debate has not yet taken place, but it seems to me that some opposition Members have tried with incredible ease to show some of the things in the legislation that we are considering are bad. In particular, I am referring to the populist opening act of the former President of the LDS and former Prime Minister. However, given that there are still some known opposition turrets, we can expect similar demagogies to continue - that is, trying to show tax legislation as bad as it will in the future cause harm and a budget hole for Slovenia, we have listened to this. Tax reform is assessed as a tax fraud that will not lead to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, but vice versa. That's what we've been listening to. It is even supposed to be aligned with the Croatian rate of economic growth, that is, downwards. At the same time, although this is not on the agenda of today's session, they are also discussing the 2007 and 2008 budgets, where they also paint everything black and catastrophic if such a budget were adopted. All of this is a 'deja vu', because it is interesting that the debate of these Members is almost identical as we have listened to it many times in the last two years, especially when we have adopted past budget documents and past developments in tax legislation. At that time, too, they were concerned and theatrically drawing all possible fears in the event that these laws that the government had prepared were passed. Yet, after the laws were passed, none of such warnings and fears came true. On the contrary, the financial deficit has decreased significantly, the economy's competitiveness has increased, economic growth is high and is still growing. Slovenia is the first and only country of the new members of the European Union to enter the monetary union. As far as I'm concerned, you've all been critics of government reform so far. None of your estimates and projections have come true. Should we now believe that what you are predicting will hold true? No, I don't think so, because your goal is not a serious concern for Slovenia and its future, but an attempt to show everything the government is doing is bad, and you're trying to prevent the proposed reforms. You are well aware that economic reforms, and therefore the related tax reform, are necessary and in favour of Slovenia, which will create the basis for even faster economic development with appropriate economic reforms and economic burdens, and thus for entering the circle of the most developed countries. You know well that in such a case it will be in the interest of the citizens of Slovenia who will live better and that is why this does not suit you politically. You want it to be as bad for the people as possible, so that the situation that would have arisen if you had listened to you, and for what you are now rooting to accuse the government and build your further political breakthrough on power. It is foolish, in my view, to say that since this reform they will have the highest wages, but none of them with the lowest wages. In my opinion, everyone will benefit from this law, everyone will gain it, and above all, the purpose of stimulating the most productive population is to invest as much as possible in further development and added value. What will be the wages of those with high wages is simply impossible to calculate on the basis of a legal table setting out the percentage of income from wages. The remuneration is a contractual category defined by an agreed relationship between the employer and the employee. On this basis alone, the remuneration will be fixed, not from the rate of taxation set by the new law. If the employer considers that an undeclared gross salary would result in an individual’s overprivileged personal net remuneration, given its working contribution to the creation of the company’s profits, it will simply reduce the gross salary. I think that's understandable in itself. There will be a classical labour market where the law on supply and demand will decide. Therefore, as simplified as some opposition Members are trying to do, it is not possible to show, and it is only a valuable attempt to mislead and manipulate the public. In addition, we must not forget that today it is the first consideration of the law and that this consideration and all that will be said will be the basis for further proceedings and for further discussion. That is why one would expect those who do not like marriage to make constructive suggestions for possible improvements, not just to break the whole law and its concept. We do not all share the same views in our parliamentary group on all legal solutions, so in the debate we will also propose some different solutions, raise individual concerns to be assessed and examined by the Government and, on this basis, prepare appropriate amendments to the next adoption process. However, at this stage, the proposed Income Law is appropriate and the rest of the tax legislation is suitable for further consideration, and I will therefore support others in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Ambassador Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Chairman! A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members, fellow Members and Members. The very good economic situation and very large economic growth suggest that we are indeed going through long-awaited economic and social reforms in Slovenia. When these reforms were prepared to talk about the introduction of a single tax rate, the plasma of comments on such a measure was deleted. Now that there is no uniform tax rate in this proposal, everything is wrong again. From this I only conclude that whatever our government does, the opposition will refuse. Similarly, reform in general is taking place. In the beginning, there were signs of over-radicality. Today, many say that it is no longer about reform, but only about minor beauty repairs. The Income Act, like other tax reform laws, is an extremely positive achievement of the government. As early as last year, the changes adopted indicated a direction that leads to a decommissioning of the economy and the removal of excessive administrative burdens. Simplifications that will benefit both taxpayers and tax administrations themselves, on the one hand, lead to significant financial savings, are estimated at about five billion SITs. On the other hand, they make it easier for operators to do business. In this direction, I welcome the simplifications in the field of agricultural activity. However, I would like to point out changes in the determination of income from activities. According to the new one, several taxpayers will be able to identify the tax base on the basis of actual revenues and standardised expenditure, as the threshold will be raised from 6 million to 10 million SIT. This will in particular benefit independent entrepreneurs whose scope of activities is difficult to justify high administrative costs or record keeping costs. Also from a liquidity perspective, the proposal for a law on income is more favourable to the debtors, as the benefits can also be taken into account in the calculation of annual income savings. I welcome the provisions of the law which equate the status of legal persons and independent entrepreneurs. This is evident mainly in the determination of the tax base and tax reliefs. When this is a matter of relief, I must support our Group's efforts to introduce regional incentives for investments in less developed areas, in addition to facilitating R & D. I must say, I am personally pleased that we have in marriage a relief for the affected children after 18 years. The affected child, whose parents decide to keep him at home, which is certainly more humane for him, is also a child after 18. So I personally saw no reason not to have such relief even after 18. However, I would like to see a little more care in the income law for families or large families. This is where I would like to increase the relief for dependent family members or to introduce more progressiveity for any further child. Otherwise, I consider the proposed law to be good, but above all, it is much better than it has been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Kumer has the floor next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, it is necessary to respond to various missions from a position that, even today, in this national assembly, use this microphone and a speaker to teach and share the Levites with the opposition Members, what we can and cannot say. I would warn you that there is no chapter in the reform package aimed at reforming the opposition Members, so I would suggest that you stop this eternal talk once and for all. Two years have passed, and this is the first really more difficult project in the national sense that this government, which took over two years ago, has taken over in its own hands. For the first time in these two years, it is not possible to hear or hear an argument from government men that we must do so because we are adapting to European guidelines, to European directives and so on. For the first time, it is a project which is our internal, national, state project and which strategy and implementation ourselves we are absolutely deciding. That is why I think and attract those who believe that there is no doubt that the proposals of all seven laws, but it is not possible to speak separately about only one because it is an interdisciplinary relationship, led by the Income Act, does not mean a real tax reform, at least not the one that the government started talking about when its mandate, which was much talked about by the government's strategic council, which was much talked about by a large group of reformists, and not least, of which only the ministry and the Minister for Development itself spoke. Much, much ink has been spilled, a lot of press conferences have been made to have us in front of each other today, if I reduce this to the Income Act instead of the five three income laws and that some tax reliefs and reliefs have been drawn up for special purposes. So the mountain shook, and after two years she was born, say to this flea, who is now responsible for both workers and employers. The key objective of the planned reform in 2004, the decommissioning of the economy and the greater competitiveness, at least at this point in time, is yet to be met, and we can only expect the direct impact on the economy to be expected by the applicants themselves in the sub-ton or between the lines, when the tax on paid salaries will be definitively abolished, if it is not too late, and when there is indeed a reduced public consumption, which now has a figure of 0 after two years. However, we have heard from the promise that over the next two years this reduction in public consumption should indeed count 2%. Therefore, in the first moment the public was also at the head of politics, at the head of the unions, at the head of the good work of the professional public, except for the economy, even in some euphoria and affection or shared much satisfaction with the proposed reforms. The last few weeks, the picture's been changed a little bit. More and more are dissatisfied with the changes mainly in the income law, as well as the law on the income of legal persons. I believe that there are two fundamental reasons for this dissatisfaction or that this satisfaction has turned into a great scepticism. When things got a little deeper and analyzed, however, it came, and this has a political context, for the first time, that actually with these changes, because we are not talking about tax reforms, but about changes in tax legislation, it happened for the first time in our lives, as it was written somewhere by one economic expert, that the tax burden of high-income natural persons is much lower than in the past with lower-income taxpayers. This is actually the first time this has happened to us. Another time. These changes are precisely because they do not have the objective of reducing social differences, but they are intended to increase social differences, otherwise they do not. The result today is both the dissatisfaction of employers and the dissatisfaction of employees, as we have seen in direct encounters. Employers, due to the obvious further opening up of these social differences scissors and employers on the other hand, because this opening of social differences scissors has not helped them, however, today much has been said, who is simply winning, who is helping them to reduce labour costs or to unload the economy. Only the suspension of the pay tax as an impact on greater entrepreneurial competitiveness may have some major effects on the economic recovery over the next two years, but it will again depend mainly on the state or to name this country with the government. In order not to see this not missing in the state budget, this will replace it again by introducing some new ones, I will not talk about VAT, some new taxes, some taxes, some excise fees, etc., not to mention these things. It is said that, of course, the budget will fill with these additional burdens. The 2007 and 2008 budget proposals de facto show that there is no strong will to reduce public spending. So we expect and expect that the government will actually come next year, but it would be nice now with the 2007 and 2008 budget, with a concrete plan for reducing public spending. Not by predicting that economic growth will, I don't know, 5%, 6%, that inflation will remain at 2.3%, 2.4%, and that more revenue will, of course, cover the issue, but with a concrete plan to reduce public spending. Only when this plan is truly presented to the Slovenian public will a healthy foundation or healthy roots really be shown for the start of some promising tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will follow the rules of procedure and the agenda myself and will discuss the law on income and not the possibility of some tourist topics, such as the impact of VAT on the growth of marjets in the first half of April in 2019. This seems to be the case in some debates. In my opinion, the Income Act is one of the most important laws we adopt in the tax area because it actually affects most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also reflected in the deep professional political interest debates that have taken place around this law. The fact is that the existing law has been amended five times over the past two years, and because of this or even this, it has become opaque, incomprehensible and difficult to understand, tax experts have, let alone, those ordinary citizens who do not even know about these and similar things. Given that we have limited time and that the law is in fact extensive and covers a wide area, it would focus on only one segment. This is the segment that touches those who generate income by doing business. I believe that the existing law is in many ways unfriendly to the fact that it does not guarantee some competitiveness, conditions for development, and that it has also generated considerable labour costs. The law we are considering today certainly brings a lot of improvements and simplification in this area. Some of them have already been mentioned, but still allow me to list some concrete ones. One is that there is an increase in the threshold to which standardised expenditure can be applied. With the passed law in 2004, if we remember, this threshold was 3.9 million Slovenian tolars. We are this threshold in the sense of helping these entrepreneurs, once again raised to 6 million, the law that we now have at our disposal raises this threshold to 10 million, which I think is a nice step forward. This means that a greater number of debtors will also be given the opportunity to decide on the tax base on the basis of actual revenues and standardised costs. The second thing that is proposed in the proposal for a law is that income from another contractual relationship is also regarded as income from an individual business, which is considered to be an activity income after the law has been adopted. This means, in my view, a substantial simplification, because individual income from these activities, which have an opportunity with this nature, will not be necessary for the need to tax the income from this title on those incomes achieved in an independent relationship and on those achieved in an independent relationship. It should also be noted that all agricultural and forestry activities allow for the transition to a tax base based on actual income and expenditure or on standardised costs. I would also like to point out that no payment shall be added to the exemptions for the payment of income on the basis of property damage insurance relating to the conduct of basic agricultural or forestry activities, etc. There are more cases like this in this law. I can only conclude that this law is an important step forward in ensuring the conditions for the functioning of our economy. Although I am sure that some changes should be made even more radically, I accept some reality and reality in Slovenia. In a democratic country, there are several different stakeholders, several different factors, and it is right to seek solutions through some dialogue that are, I cannot say, best, but more widely acceptable. To find such a solution that everyone would like, I don't think it's even theoretically possible, unless we say that the tax rate is 0 or that we simply don't have a tax. In our Group of Members, we are aware that this law can be further improved. That is why we have also supported this general debate in order to hear proposals to hear what others are proposing and then to look for some of the most optimal solutions within these options. Of course, it bothers me that some of the opposition are simply criticising the law on average, which, I don't know, is even worse than the previous one, which did not bring any good solutions, in short, completely sucks. I have not yet heard any concrete proposals in the debate today, but what we would suggest. Those who have serious concerns, I expect those who are responsible to propose better solutions if they do. I hope that then, in the framework of the amendments, we will really come up with some concrete proposals, but not such populist ones, but also those that actually have some basis in some calculations and in some analyses. As it is said, I support the basic concept of this law by opening the procedure. I think it's been a long, long time for the first time that the state is giving up something and that virtually all of us will have something of it. How much, this is an open question, I agree with that. However, I think that the effect of reducing these tax burdens will be divided into those who receive incomes as well as those who pay wages. How much, this is a matter of further development and negotiations with the social partners, but the possibility opens up. I will support this law at this stage, and I think we will also, if necessary, seek further improvements if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Magus has the floor. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government. Today we are discussing the basic law within the tax package, the law on income. Allow me, however, to say something in the debate on this law about the integrity of this tax reform, which is most proven and confirmed by this very income law. I estimate that the tax laws drawn up by the government are not reform. There has been a lot of talk about this reform, and even 200 people have fallen into some strategic world, to work for free, and today we see in this particular law that they have not worked for free. The net wages will increase to all those who have worked in the context of economic reforms. After two years of the birth of tax legislation, and today it is exactly two years since you gave your voice to such a policy, to the policy of Janez Janša, a bad proposal for tax changes was born, and particularly a bad proposal for a law on income. This law is nothing more than redistribution between individual income classes, while at the same time reducing tax fairness, increasing inequality and, as I will show, does not increase the competitiveness of the economy, nor does it increase the competitiveness of the economy. In this proposal by the government of Janša, it is simply that, first of all, all ministers, the government, Mr Bayuk and the small group of the richest will be greatly increased net wages, so the government is burdening itself and those who least need it. The problem is not only that the government thinks it can relieve those who least need it. The problem is that the government will charge the bill for this relief first to the economy and further to all individuals who receive the least tax reform. For the government intends to pay 77 billion budget revenues in the light of the 2007 budget adopted, by increasing the burden on the economy on corporate income tax and by raising the VAT rate in 2008. I quote a government document, it is said that it is no longer an idea or would or would not, but a government document forwarded to the National Assembly, the draft budget for 2008, page 8, says: "... By raising the reduced VAT rate from 8.5% to 9% and the standard rate from 20% to 21%, the reduction in revenues will be compensated..." and so on. In short, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to cover the deduction of the revenue budget income, which will reflect the proposed Income Act, by raising VAT and increasing the effective taxation of the corporate tax economy. What's gonna happen? The economy will be more burdened, VAT will rise, it is forecast, we also heard about the increase in excise duties yesterday. All of this will affect inflation during the most sensitive period of the euro. And since the highest tax grades will be the most burdensome, they will simply ask for more lasting goods. Welcome to the world of rising prices of durable goods, especially apartments. However, the government, which at some point in its enlightenment in 2005, has probably introduced a 4% discount to reduce income, which is specifically intended to solve housing problems, is abolishing this relief. For all Slovenes and Slovenes, the relief for the provision of the conditions of stay is also abolished by a special 2% relief. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, the first Minister of Finance in the then insolvent Republic of Slovenia has, of course, created the conditions for fiscal stabilisation in Slovenia by calling Slovenians and Slovenians from 1990 with the introduction of income and by introducing 2% of the reliefs for which they were collected, you call them papers that Slovenians and Slovenians have become taxpayers. And that's when Slovenia established tax stability. For the first time, people were aware of the need for the emperor to give them his own, but this emperor gave them 2% relief and an additional 4% housing allowance from 2005. You say here that you will support a policy that will, during the local elections, two years after the elections, give a small group of the richest for one BMW reduced income during the term of one government. Calculate that, of course, individuals such as Mr Križanovski, Dremelj, Lovšin, Slivnik, Zagoden and thus get some over a million, some over two million higher net wages. That's your policy. They'll get one BMW, most of them will get 800,000, and they'll get two coffees. Students, groups of pensioners, and some of you will even increase the tax burden. I think that this is a wrong tax policy, especially because you have spent a lot of money in recent months to adopt a framework of economic, social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia and almost all parliamentary parties have signed it, but today we see that this framework of economic reforms has only reduced the tax burden on those who have written it. That's the wrong policy. However, a particular problem is that when you do this, you do this by not reducing the income burden of the economy for even a tolar. You don't even reduce the burden of the economy for a tolar. On the contrary, as we later deal with the corporate income tax this afternoon, we will show that the corporate income tax burden has increased by 100% in 2004 compared to 2004. In 2007, this revenue will be around 247 billion; in 2004 it was 124 billion. So, you will simply charge this tax relief, this tax gift to the economy. I think it would be much better if, before changing tax classes, which is the basis of the Income Act, they first abolished the wage tax. This would achieve both, reduce the progressiveity of taxation and burden the economy. However, it is true that this would not even increase the net wages of the richest. And that's why you didn't do it, even though it's the only logical suggestion. Even some former ministers and some who have cooperated now that they have found out where Bayuk has set up the framework for economic reforms are proposing this. In the Income Law itself, it would make sense to maintain tax reliefs, especially for housing construction, because this is not only the basis for establishing its key objective - one year ago Mr Janša spoke about it - but this is an increase in fertility, but because it is actually the basis of internal economic growth, not growth based only on debt, but it is actually the basis of stable economic growth. Therefore, I cannot go beyond the assessment that the only objective of this reform is the enforcement of major redistribution in Slovenia, the enforcement of the republican policy. Reagan Economics and similar policies have just claimed decades ago that if you donate the richest bags of gold, then some of this bag of gold will fall to the poorest ones, because the richest money will be spent on investments in new jobs. Unfortunately, we will not see this here. Unfortunately, this has not happened in other countries. The main result of these policies is usually a much larger public debt. However, what we are doing here today has an additional duality. If the government has already decided to change, it has simplified the system to abolish some reliefs, and if you have decided to suspend the payment of interest, the one who predicted that, however, as in neighbouring Austria and all the countries of the European Union, where for the first 1,200, 1,500 euros of interest people do not pay interest, if you have already decided that every Slovenian will have to pay for every 5 euro, 1 euro of interest, and I do not understand why the richest ones you have initially increased their incomes will also be allowed to still have a 50% lower interest relief from the denationalisation obligations. In short, we will all pay EUR 1 per 5 euro interest, and these richest ones will pay 50% of this or only 50 cents. That is why this is a very inadequate policy and I am personally disappointed, disappointed that more than 200 people have been robbed of their two-year work on the so-called Janša reform. Janša's reform has changed through Bajuk's proposal for income legislation to raise net salaries for those who wrote the reform framework and will late be this tax gift. I will not support this proposal alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! On the basis of the economic initiative, I would like to propose to supplement the law in the section on income from employment. This is an amendment to Article 42, which refers to a specific tax base applicable to public servants and officials and employees on long-ship ships. I propose that, in the same way as the above-mentioned group, the tax base should also be determined for residents who are employed in subsidiaries abroad if the owner of this foreign company is a company established in Slovenia and is solely owned by Slovenian owners. Slovenian companies set up companies abroad in particular to increase or maintain competitiveness, as this is essential for the long-term existence of companies. An undertaking that has a significant market share in the world must also invest in manufacturing companies abroad in order to maintain its position. In order to successfully run a business abroad and cooperate with a parent company in Slovenia, to carry out production with high technological complexity and to protect industrial property, experts from the parent company must be involved in this process, as this contributes to greater efficiency. Work in a foreign society usually takes longer, for example for several years, so the usual form of employment is the conclusion of a working relationship abroad, while the working relationship is also concluded with the company in Slovenia. Work and stay abroad is linked to additional costs. However, they are certainly increasing due to rentals for accommodation. These costs are paid by employees from their salaries and, in addition to the agreed incentive personal income, this should also enable them to pay the costs incurred by this. The salary, which includes all of this, is higher than the level of domestic wages, which improves the company's competitiveness and thus reduces its performance and reduces its ability to operate. The situation has changed dramatically since 1.1.2005 by amending the Income Act, which provides that residents are obliged to pay income from all income sources in the Republic of Slovenia and from all income sources outside Slovenia. Such arrangements of foreign employees necessarily place them in an unequal position, as their gross salary is adjusted to their costs, which are significantly different or much higher than the cost of staying in Slovenia. The current method of calculating income under the Income Act also covers the tax base of foreign employees in categories which are not income-based but cost-recovery categories and tax them with income. As an exception to this, public servants and civil servants are already subject to the law governing wage relations in the public sector. Where these are assigned to work abroad, only those incomes or portions of income from the employment relationship, which correspond to the income from the employment relationship which they would receive for the same work in Slovenia, shall be included in the tax base under Article 42 of the Income Act. The law therefore recognises certain categories of debtors as special status or higher living costs abroad. Those who work or work in an economic society abroad are, in this case, in an unequal manner, in a significantly worse situation. The proposal therefore does not introduce a category that is not yet known by the Income Act, but merely extends the provision relating to a particular category of residents, including other residents who live and work in similar circumstances. Mr Minister Bajuk, he is not currently in the Chamber, please consider this comment, please also ask his colleagues to do so and include this comment, which came from the economic sphere, for a second reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Germić to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, it has been often said here that this tax change, i.e. the change in tax legislation, is actually what we all get, and that all of us who speak from the opposition species are characterized as stormeers, like people who talk about futuristic topics. I will try to talk about some of the facts that follow from the proposed amendments to this law. When we talk about allowing for the same effect on all, I would like to reiterate that this is not true. Calculations show that a slight progression will bring two billion and a half million to leading men in the following companies, such as Del, over a billion in the Intereuropa, in Petrol, two billion and a half, to the director of Telekom good two billion two hundred thousand, to the director of Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants good one hundred thousand, to the minister of labour almost 250,000, while those who receive average wages will be better off, just for this comparison around 85,000, saying that in Slovenia almost 63% of all taxpayers who fall into the first income class, for which we will improve about 10,000 to some extent. When we talk about the deletion of relief for various purposes and the deletion of relief for paid amounts to address the housing problem being replaced, I would like to point out here that the deletion of these two reliefs will be replaced by greater overall relief and slower progress, of course, I would like to re-supply with concrete data. Take, for example, the case of someone who was bound at the first tax rate and was applying a 4% relief to solve the housing problem, and in this case he received a refund of 17,000 in income. If we look at such a case after a new calculation, we can find that, of course, due to a greater overall reduction, savings will be around 12,000, the loss of income, representing 17,000, means net loss or worse for such a taxpayer for the value of 5,000 dollars, while those who do not solve their housing problem will be better off by the new legislation for 6,500 dollars. Here is just one example of how the government attempts to replace or define by misinterpretation the deletion of two allowances with new receipts. I would also like to touch on one of the fundamental objectives that the government is writing down. I know, Minister Bajuk, that perhaps these issues by the opposition are not important to you and you are not meant to follow the debate, I would like to draw your attention to just one fact. You write down in the basic objectives that there should be a complete reduction in the taxation of the income of natural persons and thus of the increased available income for the consumption and investment of individuals. Of course we do not all come from central Slovenia, so I would read to you in what way and in what proportion the taxpayers will receive when spending the remainder or what will be possible for those with higher wages to benefit in the future. I would like to remind you, of course, of the statistics that say that in the central Slovenian region, for example, the proportion of the population with at least higher or higher education is close to 19% and has a concentration index of 145. The concentration index means the proportion of this population compared to the total population in Slovenia. This means that half the share is higher than the rest of the regions. If we compare, say, the pomur region where, say, the education concentration index has a completed primary school of 132, which means that, say, in this proportion, this population will receive significantly smaller savings in this income account than some other regions. And the question is. Today it has been said that this legislation also coordinates criteria or criteria for more coherent regional development. I wonder what the messages are in these regions, where, for example, there is a poorer education structure where it will not be possible to participate in this milder progression, because in these environments wages are lower. And to quote you, in the central Slovenian statistical region there is an average gross salary of 321 thousand tolars, and in the pomur region there are 235 thousand. And the question is how will these people in these two different regions be able to achieve the fundamental objective in which you write in your explanation in the second paragraph that they will be reduced, so that the taxation of income in natural persons is enabled to increase the availability of income. So I wonder how this tax legislation will achieve coherent regional development and how this tax legislation will affect people living scattered across the Republic of Slovenia. Are we not going to do just that because there is so much and so much lower unemployment here, that with such measures we will motivate young people to leave demographically endangered environments and want to live here in the capital. Here we are talking only about one aspect of these contradictory measures, which you justify being replaced by a slight progression. We are just trying to open your eyes to what this milder progression means by these different classes of the wage system in Slovenia and what this means for people living differently across Slovenia. And here are the elements for which we are discussing rightly here today in the general debate, and we do not want to be like opposition turrets, because we are trying, with the evidence, to shed light on what you are going to do with the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members, welcome! Mr Vice-President, you probably won't mind if I correct my esteemed colleague Germič, who spoke in his introduction about the savings of some citizens in the order of billions and more. You were talking about billions. I know it was a lapsus, but to avoid deceiving Slovenian citizens and citizens with a thousand exaggerations, I dared this correction, Mr Germič. Although I see taxes as something that is a burden on me as a citizen and a taxpayer of income and in my private business books I record a tax on the side of the burden. While some discuss it as if the tax is something that is good for me, it is good for me. I've heard that someone could write the value of one BMW in a good way, that's the order of 10 million tolars. Where such tax legislation is, I'm really interested. In the future, however, only on income legislation. Initially, I would like to make it clear that I am not personally disturbed by the frequency of the treatment of tax legislation in this national assembly, especially when it comes to novelties that bring news in the sense that the country is canceling about 35 billion tax revenues. It is true that we all remember that the very first measures of this government were aimed at changing barely the tax legislation adopted in May 2004. Too many experts and businessmen and stakeholders have been dissatisfied. While it is generally known that tax systems are becoming increasingly complex, after which Slovenia is still leading, and imprecise. The longer the applicable tax systems are, the more true they are. Therefore, occasional more decisive adjustments are needed. One of the main reasons for this is simplification and transparency. The fact is that the Slovenian income system is very or too progressive. We have as many as five tax grades with limits of 16% to 50%. Too much progress is definitely disincentived by high-income recipients to work towards higher incomes. If higher incomes are the result of greater productivity and efficiency, greater efforts and performance, high progress can be disstimulating to the economy. Let us not forget that income-treasures are also independent entrepreneurs. I know cases in the tax sense of smart independent entrepreneurs who, with a relatively accurate calculation of the income projections for the current year, stop production before the end of the calendar year, we all know why. We all know the cases, or at least two, when the existing excessively progressive income system, if I say gravely, expelled our top athletes or athletes from the country of Slovenia, and we are all convinced that they are the best ambassadors of the country. The reduced progress made by the proposed amendments to the Income Act has sparked many debates, concerns and fears that, for example, the country will take too little into account for managers in the future or that, after the introduction of this law, the inflows from salaries to the personal accounts of managers will be increased. All of this is actually true. However, I am sure that we are talking about the administrations of economic companies and of the supervisory boards of economic companies, that there will be no supervisory board that would not detect and consider individual contracts signed with members of the administration. If, at the end of the term of office, the Supervisory Board reduces the gross salary on an individual contract due to new income legislation, this will mean a direct reduction in the costs of this company. However, the Supervisory Board may not alter individual salaries or contracts for members of administrations, but it will require more ambitious business plans and, of course, their implementation. Income legislation, of course, is clear to everyone, but it cannot dictate the behaviour and conduct of the supervisory councils. So much in my strong support for the reduction of income progression, with which this government of the Republic of Slovenia has also reached the principal facility, which is essentially different from the previous governments. The last one actually said good-bye exactly two years ago. At this point, I cannot help but point out another tax anomaly, which has long been adopted, to another progressive tax. This is a tax on paid wages, which is essentially a hidden tax on human capital. Thank God this government has phased it out and will be completely shut down as of 2008. In the new law, I would like to see a slightly more stimulating investment in development and research, particularly in the least developed regions. I also want a slightly greater tax relief for those who will invest in the least developed region. I welcome the positive changes in the taxation of basic agricultural and forestry activities and complementary activities. I welcome the solutions for residents working, for example, in neighbouring Austria, but in particular I would like further such discussions only on the basis of concrete data and not on the basis of discussions. Here I would like to commend the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the efforts made to solve the problems that these people working in Austria have. Above all, I welcome the simplifications, and I really cannot wait for the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to send me an income statement just for signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr. Horvath for his warning. And there was actually a lapsus where, of course, I was talking about amounts, i.e. the annual net amounts of wage differentials for leaders in Del, Intereuropa and Petrol, where the amounts are worth millions, not billions. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. And Mr. Member Friend has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental objective of the new Income Law should, of course, be to pay too much income, i.e. to pay the person back faster in that part. I see here a very large injustice, a respected minister, to those we pay, we overpay these things every year, they can't wait that long for the return of their money, which they get interestless back. When a person is in debt to a country, he claims late interest and is uncompromising; here, in fact, he is very strict. In what way will long bureaucratic procedures be prevented, my question would be my and I would only give the following in relation to coherent regional development. No matter how economically impoverished a region is, it would be necessary to have a greater sense of creating a tax field in all areas. I think we're too rigorous here, too rigid and too stepmotherly to the one who wants to create. Countries that invest in new added value, new jobs and who want to have a positive "reating" in this area are investing huge funds and also large tax reliefs for those legal persons who are engaged in business, either in small businesses, large enterprises, and ultimately small and medium-sized enterprises are the condition for the creation of large trusts and firms. And in this law, we do not see such stimulation in this novel, so we also in the Slovenian National Party estimate that this law cannot be supported with its left hand. And I'd like to ask because we have a minister here today to respond to these two sets. What is overpaid, however, should be repaid immediately, without delay. Here I would ask that we be consistent, even if we are consistent in our collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Juban to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Somewhere in the debate one of the coalition Members was said, the first consideration is, we have a possibility of suggestions and perhaps the government will take them into account, of course, if it is possible. I'm counting on it, and the reason why I'm coming forward is in this direction in the hope that maybe something will happen at the expense of our suggestions. I also understand what Mr. Shircelj once said, if you forgive one, you must take the other. Then, here in various debates, we heard different versions of forgiveness and taking and who profited in the end. I would not repeat these matters, but in spite of all the suggestions made by the government that we might still be able to obtain some change before the next hearing, which would be more equitable for the Slovenian population. One initiative in this direction is to study, at the thresholds of EUR 62 000, 42 and, I believe, 21, 25, whether these book limits are simple accounting exemptions, etc. true, and that they may be shown in any other direction to change them. The second is the reason for me to advertise, last week there was a round table in Murska Sobota, where interested persons from the court of Slovenia gathered. The area of agriculture, which has already been presented today, has been addressed and is summed up about this. The current legislation has been weak, the current legislation is weaker. The reason is that some agreements, negotiations, coordinations, etc. have occurred in previous tax laws, but this time you did not have much or nothing. And in order to agree on something else, I am also one of those instigators to try to motivate you to take another seat to study whether some warnings are in place or not. The first is a chapter where a non-expert may find it difficult to understand that special treatment is given to the production of vegetables exclusively on the surfaces that are in the cadastral garden. This is technologically almost impossible. And given the trend of food production in the way you invest a lot of work, it is no longer possible in the cadastral gardens in Slovenia, but it is also grown on other fields of the country and it is necessary to arrange these matters differently. I'm not going to explain the details to you because it would be inappropriate to sit down and think about it in a solid way. The highest amount of dust is around various state aid for agriculture. And the most outstanding are direct payments, or at home, we call them compensatory payments. We used to try to interpret things in a very simple way at a working meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we took a sheet of paper, and we said that some government services had calculated that this is the value of some food article that you get on the market for just that much, let's say 1/3 less. In view of the fact that the European Union is investing a lot of money in a lower food price, the difference to an officially proven price is added by a European cash market or something from a state budget. But now we have taxed this part, which is illogical, and it seems to me to consider whether this matter could be rectified. I have presented the matter in a school way, but your colleagues also said at this working meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, for us it is income, we will not include the brain in this direction and the matter will be as it is. Maybe it shows another idea. The exemption chapter, if someone invests a lot of their own money, credit or any other, suggests that it should be considered in different ways, in a certain way, to exempt a duty at some time. These are, say, investments in land, in basic herds, in construction, equipment and the like, I am still talking about agriculture, and then in the coming years, depending on the rate of depreciation, they are applying some reliefs which, in my opinion, are local and necessary, of course, on the basis of evidence that this is not just an average. Perhaps in the end only a comment on the opening of the previous period, that the top athletes were abandoning us because of our legislation. I'd say we probably all know what kind of cases we're thinking. These top athletes were also financed by the legislation at the time, and this was well funded. But when we had to return something, they left us and registered elsewhere, which I don't think is good, and it's not fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Member. I would like to respond immediately to this proposal as regards taxation of this work, which comes with agricultural subsidies as regards investments. It is true that the law adopted in this National Assembly in 2004 between May and June was fully taxed and taxed in full irrespective of when the contracts were signed. When faced with this fact in the first months of 2005, the Ministry of Finance immediately decided that it was pointless to tax those contracts that had been concluded, or those investments that had already been made, when these changes had not yet been made, because it would be really inappropriate for someone to have planned a bigger investment and now they would have fixed it for me. The question now being raised and this was then also included in these Regulations, whether this can be maintained permanently. We are now studying, especially on the basis of experience in other countries, whether this can be done through a change in cadastral income. We will, I do not have a definitive answer to this question yet, but I would tell you that these comments do not fall into an empty hole, that every thing we hear, we are also trying to study it and, of course, to respond to it with good intentions. As regards the deposit, in so far as we are concerned, and the so-called interest-free financing of the State by certain taxpayers who have not yet received or are not immediately reimbursed by the tax administration. First, I'd like to tell you that it's no different this year. I think that by the end of the year, it will prove to be significantly different, that this will be done more quickly. Once we have data for everything that has happened and is still happening this year, we will examine and examine whether this system can be modified to a certain extent. The fact is, ever since we introduced cellularity, there are only fixed revenues, or most of them are on fixed incomes, that's on wages, it's already done, so there's no weird news about it. We will examine this matter as far as possible. In fact, I would assure you that the system works a little faster than it did in previous years and that by the end of the year it will be shown that most of the taxpayers will have their final accounts by the tax administration a little earlier than usual. I would say that the efficiency of the tax administration in this respect has proven to have increased already this year. However, if such a tax or income law is adopted to actually allow for certain simplifications as proposed here, I expect that there will be no longer such a problem in fact, so as to allow the tax administration to do so more quickly. But for the time being, efficiency is greater. Once we have all the data available for 2005, we will also examine, because there is a lot in this, including repetition. Because the fact is that cellularity, as far as it works, then eliminates it. It is said that much less of this funding is available than is possible. In any case, I would like to assure you that both the Ministry and the tax administration are currently operating in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Magi. The gendarmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we view the new Income Act as good in principle because it has reduced tax progress and, on the other hand, simplified the area of evidence for reliefs previously collected with a number of documents or certificates. And here we are disturbed by the fact that there is a high-end senior relief. Despite the increase in general relief, this difference is greater than what goes into the general relief account, which is greater. At the same time, the 14.5% pension benefit has also been reduced to 13.5%. Together in this part of the abolition, the problem is that pensioners are the only ones who will be worse off after this new law. There's a few thousand of them, and that's not change. We have calculated that this reduction in pension benefits covers at least 0.5% of which all taxpayers will be able to devote wherever they want, within the scope of these potential recipients. So we do not think it is good that we have completely affected this population in this way, and in this regard we will also have appropriate comments on the further developments. However, we are pleased that the tax rate for the best paid has increased, from 39% to 41%. Here, too, the most comments in the general public have been that they reward the most paid, although we understand that to some extent it has been necessary to reduce the high rate of taxation in order to retain capable people in the country, especially when the European market is opening up in the broadest sense, including with regard to employment and the movement of people. We think it's a good thing that there is no uniform tax rate because it preserves this relationship, and we will, in accordance with the possibility that we will discuss some things thoroughly, certainly continue to support this law, but we will have to defend the pensioners in accordance with our programming guidelines, regardless of the fact that they do not actually support us and that [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] If I don't know what we're gonna do for them or if I don't. [[...]] Outside of that, we want to do something good anyway, even if we don't have any rewards for it, I don't know what rewards. It is not right for only you to pay a hole in the budget, which will be a big one, and for which we express a certain fear that it will not be so easily blocked by other tides, especially if economic growth, such as today's, is not being achieved, or if there is a fall, so that we think that caution is urgently needed in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. It is already the turn of Mrs Uhanov. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u61	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, I think I am the only Member who is interested in the Income Act today. I apologize to my colleague Mrs. Zalokareva. The Income Act brings a number of innovations as well as reliefs, if we say so, also with regard to the procedures for taxpayers, which are certainly to be welcomed by the taxpayers on income. One of these is that all taxpayers will receive a full income, which will also be a decision if the taxpayer agrees with it. Much less red tape, the indignation of the last moments in fulfilling income, and I think this will be good for everyone, both for the poor and the rich, whom we like to talk about today. However, I would like to refer mainly to the agricultural field, particularly to the Member of the Liberal Democracy, who said that it had recently been a round table and that they had debated how bad the previous marriage was and how worse it was. I would like to remind him that for two years we have been correcting the law in the field of agricultural legislation, tax legislation in this Parliament, the so-called Marble Act, which has brought many weaknesses to the agricultural field or to farmers. So, for example, in this law we have now arranged, and with a novel, let’s say beekeepers. All beekeepers have been granted status and all beekeepers with less than 40 bees are untaxed. We've arranged the wineries, the winery goes under the basic activity, the complementary activities. In the previous law, only 25% of the standard costs could be applied to all those involved in the complementary activity, and now they can be up to 70%, up to 10 million revenues, under this law. And that is a significant difference, and this law has improved four times in this area. Under the new law, the farm is also treated as a whole and will be only one taxable person, although income is divided into the number of insured members, and thus the tax office will only communicate with one taxable person. There's something else that's important and I'd say a gift from this country. All owners of agricultural land with less than €200 of cadastral income, i.e. 70 to 80% of those in that country, will not face any deficit in the state budget, but will significantly reduce the costs of issuing these decisions themselves and will also be less taxable in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u62	Please, a little listen!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u63	However, I also have some suggestions as New Slovenia's Member that in the field of agriculture, as I have heard before, subsidies in investment in agriculture would not be taxed. The minister has already explained that they are thinking in this direction or as much as possible. Above all, we would propose or think about an amendment in order to submit it so that the subsidy under the title of the Slovenian agricultural environmental programmes would not be taxed, as well as the funds for farms located in the area with limited factors, because these farms are maintaining the landscape, they are farming in an extremely inappropriate area for farming; and this would also mean that farms would be preserved here, and I think that this amendment would be sustainable. In Austria, too, this subsidy is not taxed. As for the progressive scale, I think it's well arranged. Above all, it is necessary to say that in most of those committed in the first progressive scale, the financial situation does not worsen, that even more so after the new proposal of the law in this class, that 2% be made easier to replace or increase at the expense of general relief and that by reducing the highest progressive scale, it stimulates especially those committed, such as highly educated personnel, employed personnel, who have otherwise gone abroad or not been stimulated to create even more, since he could also calculate, if he created more to half of the country. In practice, however, what we heard from one of our Members was that they calculated to create up to a certain amount of value, it was worth doing, and then they actually stopped their activity there towards the end of the year or actually taxed in such a way that they did not issue invoices. I hope that the new tax relief will also bring greater order in this area and that people, entrepreneurs, educated staff will be stimulated to work in Slovenia as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Ljubeljska to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I myself will be brief in view of the limited time available to our Group of Members, so I will not touch on individual proposed legal solutions in my debate, nor percentages or numbers or reliefs, nor reliefs and the like, which has already been heard and will be heard today. However, I would like to express briefly my view of the proposed laws. It has been heard from some colleagues in the opposition criticism that this is no tax reform, that it is a bluff, that is misleading people and so on. The statements made by my colleague Brickle and his comparisons are cheap political demagogies and flossules. Dear colleagues! Do you imagine those opposition colleagues sitting on tables today discussing a single tax rate? Do you remember what these same opposition colleagues said in public when the government was just preparing tax legislation and reform development programmes and was one of the options and variants, theoretical variants and a single tax rate. Remember, the poor will be even poorer, the rich will be richer and more alike. Indeed, a single tax rate would probably lead to a more radical and even more severe tax reform, which neither the coalition nor the opposition nor the trade unions nor certain media nor some economic experts supported. The government acted in a wise manner, in a flexible way, gradually, in a manner acceptable and possible, with short-term and also long-term positive effects and simplifications. That is also the case with prominent, well-known economists in the public media, such as Mr Boscarol, Mr Debeljak of Mercator, Mr Bobinac and others, as well as some economic experts, but not least to a certain extent also the trade unions of free journalists, culturers and others, not to mention. When the opposition asks how the government will cover the budget gap, it is my belief that it is possible to rationalise the work of public administration and optimize costs on the one hand, only 1% means about 30 billion - and since I come from the economy, I know that it is possible to achieve savings by a systematic approach on the short term. On the other hand, more consistent tax collection will allow for this proposed tax legislation. At the same time, we must not forget the growing economic growth, which is why these laws create even better conditions. So there can be a lot of optimism in these directions. I am convinced that the proposed tax changes are a moderate step in the right direction. The changes are positive because they mean lower taxes for both employees and businesses. As we say, reforms are going in the right direction. It will be possible to supplement and improve the draft laws also on the basis of today's debate, as well as in the following legislative procedures, and there will continue to be a need for sound negotiations between the social partners. Above all, it is necessary to create a positive climate and not a negative one, as has been said today by colleagues of the Liberal Democracy. I am sure that we are or that Slovenia is also on the right track in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Someone in front of me said that today is a gift from the state - I hope you don't believe it or that you say it because you have to say it because you are in a coalition - or a gift from the state if you are looking at this law alone. I'm just wondering how you're going to treat the next point of tomorrow as a gift, because we're going to increase something at the expense of what we're liking so much today in your opinion. I will not talk about VAT, which has already been mentioned by many predecessors and has already been calculated by the government in its budget. I would like to know what gift will then be given; it will be very interesting to monitor these magnetograms. The area of agriculture and small economy has also been mentioned many times. Investment reliefs shall be abolished. When both agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia and the small economy came to the level at which these investments could start, at which someone who is a farmer could start investing. Today, even before he was able to create something, before he could start investing, to create some new added value, you're shutting it down. It is true that, on the other hand, you give him some relief when it comes to cadastral income below 200 euros, but this is an equation. It's like, Mr. Minister, if you invite me from where I come from, and you promise me this better one on a liter of wine, and then you give me the same one I've been drinking my whole life, that's exactly the same. On one side you take it away from me, on the other hand you give me "as" but in the end the result of my work and my savings is exactly the same. 0.5% of the availability of income, so many times mentioned, is praised for how we will now be able to manage this. To the extent that you're serious about your intentions, why don't you just let it go down the base for even this 0.5%, or let me just spend this money for myself, not for someone else. Among other things, if you are really so well-intentioned, not to give a choice, I will give one humanitarian organisation or, worse yet, the Roman Catholic Church, which you give her with this law even the possibility of double funding. First, the Law on Religious Communities - they are financed from the budget, and today this possibility and the good soul of the one who will give 0.5% to the Roman Catholic Church, but already gives every Sunday a farce for a well-done mass, and the kindness of one thousand, or more, to be able to fix the "turn" in his surroundings. You could also look at it from this point of view and say, you're returning services from where you received them before the elections. Last but not least today I have just received one piece of information about how it is coming back - and you, who are so caring for agriculture - the agricultural institute in Maribor, the Roman Catholic Church, are said to have already obtained a decision on emigration and there the matter will change very quickly, from the Škofia Gymnasium will fall into one other place, and this matter will be elsewhere. But it will be a topic perhaps some other session of the National Assembly, of course, if you are willing to talk about it, and not as so far as you have always been hiding behind the government but behind your beloved leader. Another thing you forgot to tax. You said, we're taxing those things or the richest things in this country, but we're taxing them more because they can pay more, and then why didn't you tax the Roman Catholic Church? In this country, it is the richest entity that not only provides spiritual support, but even behaves economically, even participates in the market, even selling its property. Why don't you tax them, they have the most money? There, the country will collect the tax and not only the cadastral tax, but also the income tax. Of course I won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I ask you to avoid impatience in your debates, whether it is about the Roman Catholic Church or to each other. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Mag's turn. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament. Minister with associates. In New Slovenia we support the simplification of the tax system. I estimate that the proposed changes in tax reform are going this way. In the case of the Income Act, I therefore welcome the simplifications that will result in the easier operation of taxpayers, both natural persons who earn income from employment and in particular simplifications in the context of the acquisition of income from activities and agricultural activities. When 2% of tax relief is eliminated, we see the realisation of New Slovenia's efforts to thoroughly review the scope and role of tax reliefs. The increase in general relief, which compensates for 2% of personal relief up to the average wage, seems to me a reasonable simplification because the tax administration's data say that this relief was used on average up to one percent. At the time of the proposal, we will all be better off, and that is why this reform must also be supported. In the New Slovenia Group, we are working to ensure that parents and more children pay correspondingly lower taxes and contributions. In this way, the country will give a clear signal to families with multiple children that it is aware of the problems of birth in Slovenia. In calculating the progressive tax liability, account should be taken of the income per family member and right here I would like to assure the applicant that families with a higher number of children will be in the same or even better position as the others. And we expect solutions in the final version of the Income Act to ensure this. In my opening remarks, I said that we are working for a family-friendly tax policy in the parliamentary group. According to the Statistics Office, families with three or more children in Slovenia are not very common, there are about 24 thousand of us. The number of families in Slovenia is increasing, but they are smaller, on average 3.4 members per family. This makes it especially important to pay attention to larger families, i.e. those with 3, 4 or more children. Given the alarming demographic situation in our country, we need to listen to these families and at least keep their income relative to other citizens, at least that. I also agree that tax policy cannot be the only policy that governs family policy, but it can certainly help to some extent, it can only be one of the measures that will encourage families or parents to decide for a child more. It is true that the country has done much more than add-ons for large families, which have increased to 100,000 for families with four or more children by amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefit. In the context of this debate, however, I might also draw attention to a point that I have been reminded of, in particular, by those involved in additional, personal complementary activities. Europe already has a whole range of larger or smaller centres, which are the driving force behind the sustainable development of handicrafts. They are directed outwardly, i.e. to the public to promote this activity. This means that they carry out several missions at the same time, both education and promotion of their places. They are also, of course, targeted at the market, at sales. At the same time, these activities are also mandatory and identifiable components of each tourist offer of a particular place, specific landscapes! As Slovenian domestic trades are slowly dying out, the income law could also take into account the aspect of personal complementary work in this area, although I am aware that the amount of standard costs is set in another regulation. However, with the proper determination of these costs, we would encourage masters of Slovenian domestic crafts, who are particularly older to transfer their knowledge to younger ones; that this knowledge is not lost and that it remains as our national heritage. Otherwise, the law itself, which aims to reduce the burden on the active income of natural persons, to simplify and encourage voluntary payment of taxes and to influence the willingness to operate in an entrepreneurial environment, I support this stage. I estimate that many general and professional discussions have been quite extensive, but I regret that many times there has been no real assessment, which would also be positive. So many negative things and consequences, as attributed to this very income law, I still don't think this law has anything to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. We're only halfway through the term today, exactly two years is what we were elected to this National Assembly and there's not much of us left, 22 of us are here. But I'd like to talk about what we've been hearing a lot about today, a little bit, a little bit. I am very much in favour of all the objectives of the proposal for a law on income, all that is promised in these introductory words. But ever since this was put into discussion, it has been quite a while and the Latin proverb "tempus edax rerum" has also been used here, saying that time is devouring things; and here, too, a lot of things have already been eaten up and principle. It is obvious that this proposal of the Income Law is pushing into a worse position those who are already in a bad position. It is clear that it does not reduce the burden of the economy, but only the rich, the poor and the poor move the middle layer against the poor, reduces in some way the social fabric of the country, but also, of course, increases the deficit and thus, at least with the intended solutions, in fact imposes again on the less profitable work of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. It seems to me that it is very bad and that it would be, however, that it will continue with the amendments or with any more radical amendment. Article 142 of the Law is also a kind of cowardly egg. In fact, it is bound to an undeclared and undeclared law on religious communities or on religious freedom and brings "in and" not "or" or "or". I hope that the applicants, who are also within that highest layer, who will be taxed less after admission, will not only burn heartburn but also burn their conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! Taxes are, of course, a grateful political theme during each period. During this electoral period, so much more, and therefore I think it is wise to take a certain distance to the individual debates, which are to a large extent too tense and overheated. It is undeniable that the reform of tax legislation was necessary, and that is what you all recognize. You're all aware of that. You forget that two and a half years ago you passed a very strange law that allowed huge capital outflows, so-called transition tycoons, and everyone else abroad, without paying a tolar tax on created capital gains. On the other hand, you taxed some 41,000 pensioners who received a minimum supplementary pension of between 10 and 15,000 tolls per month and were forced to pay their income each month despite the fact that the tax administration was able to pay them all back after one and a half years. Twice wrong, you charged the services that had to do something about it, and you told those who should be taxed six months before the law that entered into force at the end of 2004 that capital must be put in place safely. But let's just leave it. It's a story that's survived. This unhappy law has already been corrected twice or three times in this national assembly to the pressures of individual lobbyist groups and individuals. And this led to the fact that he is extremely imprudent and inadequate. I think that the reform is set in the right direction to facilitate simplification, rationalisation, allowing for an equal approach of all the debtors and transparency and clarity of the system. Of course, on this occasion it is only necessary to listen to the critical responses of this law. If we are talking about the Income Act, especially the Income Act, perhaps not so much in this area, which, according to the period during which we are conducting this debate, is politically determined, but also professional and other public opinion. And here I am joining those opinions that say that the previous five-grade scale was not good, but that the current three-grade scale is also not appropriate because it allows for over-deployment. We're putting the higher tax grade on $3,250,000. I think that we need to think about this, listen to those who know something about these things at the professional level, and come to an appropriate stage in the adoption of the law. The current income scale, which burdens us with 41% and over 10.330.000 with 50%, is certainly excessive, inadequate, non-stimulating, and for those who contribute significantly more in this country, is also unstimulating. However, the proposed scale, which all above the level of 3.264.000 tolars gross annually, is not fair to the class with a load of 41%. That's a fact. And from this point of view, I think that in future amendments we must also come out, and I firmly believe that we will all be listening together to this professional public in such a way that we will come to the conclusion that at this stage it is necessary to think about the so-called fourth class, which should be moving there somewhere between 12 and 14 million tolars gross annually and which would still be burdened less than it has been so far to be stimulating below 50%. In this way, I think that this reform would be fair to all, stimulating to those who contribute more, and I think that even somehow, if we speak from this title, we are socially balanced. In all other segments, however we turn and when we try to imagine that they are not appropriate, that they are not good, that they are weak, and I believe that this amendment is good, that it simplifies, facilitates procedures, that it provides significantly less bureaucratic procedures in public administration, and that it enables the debtors to contribute in accordance with their capabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Members! This tax reform is obviously only good for the government, with this tax reform not even the unions agree, nor does the economy agree with it, only Mr Bajuk says much about how meaningful this tax reform is. Even Dr. Šuštaršič, Director of the Government Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, advises the Minister or State Secretary for Development, Dr. Horvat, only Mr. Bayuk agrees with this tax reform. The fact is that this tax reform increases social differences, as many of you have found today, for two reasons. First, those with the highest income will gain very much from it: those with 90 million tolars per year at 5.2 million tolars; those with 140,000 tolar gross will gain only 10,200 tolars per year, while the government increases electricity spending, higher margins for oil derivatives, which costs life. And if we take this into account, we see that some, in reality, will still be in a worse place, real income will be reduced in this way by some when the value added tax rises in 2008, with which Minister Bajuk will massage the holes in public finances that he has caused and some standards will fall very, very significantly. However, I would like to draw your attention to just one more fact that four per cent of housing is being abolished; and I wonder how this government can talk about being one of the goals of birth to support large families, young families, and at the same time abolishing the 4 per cent housing relief that is being used by very young families. How big is the gap between words and actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nicely greeted, Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Well, it is right that there is a general debate where we can all discuss the proposed tax legislation together. More importantly, I think we can listen to the debates of everyone here, including those that are very critical. I will not name you as a storm trooper myself, but I must tell you that I cannot be as indifferent as I am, let's say, until Mr Rope's debate on public consumption, but about this a little later. In fact, I would say that it is true that we have dealt with tax laws several times in this national assembly. I also agree with my predecessors, if it brings up a positive solution, it is certainly good, but above all we have been correcting things from the past. Some were really expecting big radical changes. You know, when the government hasn't actually started talking about tax reforms, the unions have already demonstrated. And I believe that today we have a tax proposal, this tax reform - also I call it - well-prepared and certainly brings good solutions. Good solutions from the point of view of workload, I am talking about a package, good solutions for economic recovery and in the medium term in terms of reducing public spending. With regard to the reduction of public consumption, on this segment where I started earlier when a fellow Member, Mr Rop, mentioned record public consumption of 44.9% of gross social product. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you that a few years ago, we all decided together to join the European Union to join NATO. What has been said before is that we are drawing more money from the European Union, that is true. It is also true that our entry into the EU and our entry into NATO have brought us additional financial obligations. And please kindly, do not deceive people, do not mislead the public - on the one hand, more income, on the other hand, more expenditure. Don't be, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the Liberal Democracy Club, just then, just talk when there's a positive thing in the palm of your hand. Even when we are talking about the obligations that we all have decided on together, we need to speak realistically. No one, in particular Mr Rop, has mentioned that there is a minimum deficit in the national budget for this year or 2007 and 2008 with regard to GDP in relation to previous years. For me, that's the most important thing. Again, to continue, Mr Rop, whether the government could not think of a more appropriate solution to the progressiveness of the tax scale. I don't know if some people want a comparison between the existing scale and the current scale to calculate your comparisons or you don't know. Comrade Starman just shook the case of what a new burden or new income of between 10 and 20 million gross wages means. That's 200 to 300 or 400,000 tolars. I don't know if a respected colleague had in mind the salary of former director Mercator, Mr Jankovic, that's another thing. But I don't know, but Mr Jankovic, he probably knows how much the mayor of Ljubljana pays, I don't know why he decided to run for office in these local elections. I am in favour of the proposed reforms. I support the proposed tax legislation and also the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear government officials, colleagues and colleagues! Maybe just a word, two on what I said when I presented the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I personally assess that the Income Law is significantly better than what we have had so far and which we have also, I think we have already fixed four times in this two-year term. The second thing I would like to say is that the original proposals that were in the works included another ladder and some other progression, and probably at the time of the formation of the law, the one that came into the National Assembly, there was a scale like that. Given that some of your colleagues have been involved in the Income Act and some other areas, I would only mention it by word of mouth, almost not one, but also when I was representing the position of the Group of Members, I did not define where to take what we would give to others, and I think that we were all on average saying what we would improve, but not where we would take it. The next thing I'd like to say is, some of you've been recalculating how to buy -- I'd like to buy one of these BMWs for this difference, but I think I'm going to have to be a Member for 40 years, so I can save a difference in tax rates so I can buy one of those BMWs, like one of my colleagues already has. Compare the marginal tax rate, which so far has some nominal value, and then 50%, to compare the new 41% - I think for a poor percentage the difference is between this marginal current tax rate and that in this income law, 41%. And the next thing I want to say in my own name. We in the parliamentary group, I will try to stand up for myself or even to come to that solution, let the principle be, what is also in the very explanation of the law, that no one in this tax reform, here in particular on the law on income, will be affected. Once again, according to the calculations we have received from the professional services, at this moment numerous families and farmers are affected. We expect to try and find a solution. Our proposal will either raise the tax rate or raise the scale here and get some money to make these direct payments for agricultural producers or producers as well as for dependent family members. Whether we think about it or perhaps even on the excuses for housing - given that if you help one or the other, you are actually helping what is said to be: that you have a place to live and something to live from. And third, let's end this. Some of your colleagues also talked about changing the so-called flat rate from 3.9 million to 6 million, in the proposal to amend the Income Act is to 10 million, I said in the presentation that I was trying to find a solution to this flat rate being the limit of normal income of two farm workers, because these are farms and I repeat, not to say that we also improved the situation for farmers by saying that the cadastral income of up to 200 euros is not taxed. They're not farmers, they're gardeners, and that's probably most of us here in this national council. In view of the fact that we will be in the parliamentary group, I will try to put forward such amendments to this law, which, on the one hand, will follow what we have said, no one will be affected by this reform, but within this reform we will not increase the so-called deficit of this title, but with internal redistributions - in my mind I have a concrete raise in the contribution or this scale, and I think that we could get money here to do what we think is bad or a little less bad, in this law we will also fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mojet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It must go very badly in the coalition to put into practice the laws that he wants to correct by himself now that they are at first reading. Otherwise, because I have very little time; in China, I would say that this tax reform is a paper tiger, but our neighbours would say, according to the forecast, what will await us in this reform: 'A mountain has been shaken, a mouse has been born'. I think we're adopting a law that doesn't have clear answers to the consequences of adoption. However, this law will certainly lead to the social distribution of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Look, just one case. Mr Petrol, Mr Kryžanovski, who has a gross monthly salary of 3,930.000, will receive a year in addition to 2,426.328 under this law. Eighty-eight thousand first-rate taxpayers, which is 62, will receive 10 thousand 668, or you should work 227 years to get this supplement as much as one director of one good company gets. I think [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] You can't work, but I don't have time, but I'm used to this rudeness of my fellow Bajc. [[...]] I think that when we get into the hands of tools, computers that work instead of people, it is unbearable that we live in such a way that, or really live at a time, we need to get more out of the workers than the pharaohs from the people who built the pyramids, with the latter working with the historical resources to achieve the goal of immortality or freedom.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Sok has the floor. Only Mr Sok has the floor. Please, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Since my colleague Lahovnik said earlier that no one supports this tax reform except the Minister of Finance, I will read to you what his professor, Dr. Marian Senjur, wrote. I don't have much time, just one paragraph: "The current finance minister may become one of the best Slovenian finance ministers to date. Maybe "the ax fell in the honey", offered him an opportunity in the tax area and took advantage of it. That's what his confession is about. It is now up to the Prime Minister to allow public expenditure to be relatively reduced. If they succeed, this government may be one of the more economically successful Slovenian governments. This would be a surprise, but it's true that he doesn't go bragging the day before tonight." Well, he wrote everything he needed. In this context, talk about this tax legislation, which, of course, must then be fully implemented. One more, mate Bajc. For the agricultural sector, this law is no worse defined than it is now. However, if investments are still exempt from taxation, then farmers will be much better off than they are right now. I don't have time to explain this to you in broad terms, but I do stand for this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Look. In some parliaments, of course, it is popular to promote the debate with meccas. It's not supposed to be a practice with us. Thanks for understanding. Otherwise, the minister has a word if he wants to. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I would like to thank everyone for their constructive initiatives. The debate on such a law as the tax law and the normal regular procedure implies exactly what has happened today: that everyone can, on behalf of either his own group or on his own behalf, tell his or her views, his or her vision and whether that is sufficient grounds for further work or not. I'm sure, after hearing all this and hearing that there was something very important and constructive to say, which I thank you for. I would just like to mention a few things and then I will also ask the Secretary of State to go into some other details. There's been a lot of talk about possible failure and what would happen if we actually did it as planned. First of all, as regards public spending, I would like to invite all those who are actually interested in this to look at the latest data that is now available on the basis of the calculations of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. When we talk about public consumption, we need to look at the whole, we need to look not only at the budget, but also at the additional three cash registers. If we take all four cash registers, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the pension institution, the health care institution and all municipalities, then public spending, as planned at the moment, and if we compare it with the average of four years of the previous government, was about 43.8%, but the two years were 44, and the two years were 43.6 years, we plan to bring it to 41.9%, i.e. a reduction of 1.9% in total. In doing so, I would also like to point out that when we took on the responsibility of the government, we also had to take on certain things that we have already discussed in this National Assembly, and it was also clearly exposed, and this is that we had to absorb 70 billion additional costs for the 2005 rebalancing, including payments at the Ministry of Education - at the level of 18 billion only there. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in broad terms when we talk about the budget ourselves. The fact is that this needs to be put into the right frame and that we are talking on the basis of real data, not just some wishes or old data that are not real. I'd also like to say something old about so-called debtors who are supposed to lose. When we talk about income, I think it is crucial that we go again to see what the structure of our income is. We have five classes in the current law. The lowest class, in which almost 63% of all people are in debt, pays 16% on the basis of its base, based on the law adopted in 2004, because it was previously 17%. This first class will increase in its scope in the proposal that the government you discussed today is the first, the class is 8% larger, that is to say more people are at that level of 16% than before, as it has been so far, that is 8% more. We go above 70% of all first-class pledges. This first class is actually going to pay less in full than it has paid so far, because it raises the general benefit by 11%, which is very much for such low incomes. After that, we now have four additional classes. These extra classes go to 32, 38, 41 and 50%. All of this will also have a profound effect that these mild progresses, as has been said here today, touch not only the highest class, but also those in the middle. It is obvious that this matter has been discussed in our society. One year we were only talking about a single tax rate. I was convinced and I believe today that there is no professional argument that such progress as Slovenian legislation now has would actually be maintained. And the truth of the heart I have heard some fervent speeches today about this matter, but there is no argument why this should be good for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, for our long-term development in order to maintain. Such progress as we have now is not known anywhere in the world. They don't know her that high in the world. This is not just my opinion, it is also an opinion expressed by the leaders of trade unions when we had discussions with them and presented it to them. The words that our progress is extremely high are not mine, it came from the mouth of unionists themselves. So, I don't know, and I haven't heard any suggestions on how to reduce progress without reducing progress. I have not heard this before, and I hope that we can come to this in further discussions so that we can hear something concrete and constructive as well. I heard how urgent it would be by those political logos, where the tax on paid salaries had actually been introduced. This government removes him, and now those who have introduced him are evil because he is going too slowly away. So these are strange things that are hard to understand, but certainly in the political space a lot of things are passed on, even such illogicality. Then it was said of those who would lose; and the youth was lost. That's a little bit about a young man who's supposed to lose. [[...]] It's about-- once I said it's less than 5%, now I've had a final check, by 1.76% of those who live by means of student service, this system will be slightly different. And I ask myself, and I ask this esteemed National Assembly, why one employee in Mura should pay a different tax than such people, who have such high resources through the student service and may be as wide as I am or as bald as I am still looking after students. It is the management of organisations with such high resources. Then there was talk of interest. Well, let's ask ourselves, indeed, this law, the law now in force, stipulates that with 2007, we will reduce this interest relief to €668, and from 2008 onwards, I propose that up to €500. Well, 500 euros is less than in Austria. Of course, there is much less in Slovenia than in neighbouring countries, including revenue. But if we go to see what kind of investments are possible with this kind of means. Someone should have an average of 16 million tolls charged in a bank in order to have more than 500 euros interest per year, if he has more, and then he will pay the tax. Of course, on this basis it is again possible to make a very burning speech, but in addition to speeches, I think it is necessary that we have information before us to think about it and say whether it is or not. As far as agriculture is concerned. I think you really need to review your numbers. On the basis of the information I have at my disposal, these assessments do not hold up, of course, it will also be time to clear these things up if necessary. As for the relief of housing construction. Yes, indeed, we have put forward this proposal with the aim of simplification. It is impossible to actually achieve such simplification as we would like - and I think we all want it - if we continue to maintain a variety of reliefs, those that are urgently needed when we talk about family reliefs, reliefs for the disabled; this is all to be maintained. And as I've already said publicly, it's not because I'm buying the house, it's already been bought and paid for, that I won't hear any personal inappropriate attacks again. That's not what this is about. As I am aware that the young generation has nothing to do with the Yazbinski Law, the young generation must create itself and precisely because we had the needs of the young generation in front of us, this government has proposed and this national assembly with a large majority, and I also think that, with the support of the opposition, it has adopted a law on mortgage and municipal bonds, which provides the first basis for our banking system to actually have long-term resources and to offer such funding that will enable it. Ladies and gentlemen, through tax relief we will not be able to achieve this, they certainly help, and the fact is that it is crucial - I know, we also have long-term systemic solutions. I also think that the work of this government in the area of the housing fund and housing policy is a little more successful than the various Zbilje groves. Well, that's what I'd say. We have also heard that such legislation will make social dialogue more difficult. This argument is difficult to understand because I cannot imagine how otherwise it would be possible to discuss between the social partners, if not on the basis of a clear framework of legal character, such as tax legislation, before this tax legislation was even proposed. While Slovenia was still discussing divergent uniform or non-single tax rates, it would be pointless for someone to expect social dialogue to create something other than a further debate on these issues. If this topic is closed, if it is now clear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of nothing but very professional analyses, has proposed a solution such as that at the table today, and we have renounced that starting point, as Mr Member correctly said, as a starting point for a single tax rate debate, because we are convinced that such changes are necessary and that we must also go in this direction. There's just one more thing I'd like to say, and I'm gonna end it. I think that the framework for further negotiations is in line with the well-known established system of social dialogue that prevails in our country, that, on the basis of the fact that some of the strangers we have now resolved, that we know what legislation we are talking about at all, I think this will not make social dialogue more difficult, but that it will actually open up and allow this to happen. But I'd like to ask my colleague, the secretary of state, to add some more things. Besides, I'm done with this, thanks for all the constructive suggestions, we'll keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to answer some further questions raised in the course of the debate and clarify some of the uncertainties that have been raised. First of all, I would like to point out that this tax legislation is actually defined in the context of economic reforms. Seven measures are in the context of economic reforms and, on this basis, all tax legislation is made. Indeed, it is actually written that a uniform tax rate will be examined. This single tax rate has been examined and it has been found that it is not the most optimal or that it does not produce the effects that it was originally meant to have and is not proposed for these reasons. Of course, now the question is whether reform is or reform is not or whether reform could be even if we had a single tax rate, but not everything else. Nevertheless, I think, if we are talking about taxes, we are certainly talking about significant changes and also significant changes in the area of income or taxation of natural persons. In this connection, I would also like to say the following, namely that this income or income shortfall is linked to some other resources. Among other things, this has been associated with excise duties. Here I would like to specify exactly what this is about and why the government adopted yesterday the amendments and additions to the excise legislation, with which, for the first time, it has only done what was done in 2004: it has adjusted the amount of so-called tobacco excise duty to the minimum level that it has to meet under the rules of the European Union, which means, this has already been announced, the previous government has actually announced this increase in excise duty and there are actually no, I will say, new things. The next issue already announced by the 2004 excise law is the change in the taxation of electricity. One euro per megawatt or 0.5 euros per megawatt if we are talking about business and non-business use. Yes, this is Slovenia's obligation within the European Union and this has already been laid down in the law of this 2004. Here it is just operationalising, by saying here that there will by no means be such an increase in prices as is already circulating in the public, for example in an account for 10,000 tolars for electricity will be higher by 152 tolars for excise and not by any larger amount. From this heading, higher revenues will be made and, of course, part of the income deduction will be covered from this heading. Of course, the proposal was mentioned and one of the proposals was to reduce or abolish the tax on paid wages, this is what the government is doing here or adopted under the law, and this should happen gradually over the next three years. As a second measure, limiting contributions up. This is one of the measures also in the context of economic and social reforms. Only if we talk about this measure can we not talk about higher wages being less taxed or less "contributed" because this will increase net wages, especially higher wages. In fact, this means that, at some level, gross wages will cease to be paid. What is this level, we can take any level; it can be three average wages, and all those with more than three average wages will no longer be burdened by social security contributions. This is one of the measures the government has not taken or operated on at this time, but in fact in this case it does not go along with, I will say, increasing the net salaries of those who already have higher net wages. So this angle right over here has to make a certain distance. With regard to pensioners, of course, I would like to say that here, when we talk about taxation, more taxation, we are talking about 2,350 pensioners who have a higher pension than 435 thousand dollars net. This is how we talk about these 0.7% of pensioners from this point of view. Of course, I wouldn't want to get in the middle of it here, whether it's big or small. The next thing I want to mention here is the so-called tax fraud. It's not a tax fraud. As I have already mentioned, the source of excise duty, on the other hand, is also expected to increase economic growth and, as Mr Minister has already mentioned, lower public consumption. Here we cannot and strongly reject any insinuation for tax fraud or anything in this sense. From this point of view, we will consider or consider additional proposals. These are the proposals that relate, I will say, to agricultural taxation. Also with regard to additional relief for dependent family members. Here I think mainly of the fourth, fifth and sixth children. I certainly thank you for these proposals and also for these warnings. I believe that this reform and part of this reform is the Income Act, of course what is now possible, and what is really possible in the context of having sound public finances and of course we will also have macroeconomic indicators such as to meet these criteria under the Maastricht Agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got the word, but we still have 36 minutes. I therefore ask on the basis of the Rules of Procedure whether anyone else wants to discuss it. As you know, Members and Members of Parliament report with pressure on any key and government representatives are still in a classic way, i.e. by raising their hands. We'll start with the application. We only have one lap. Thank you very much. Nine Members and Members of Parliament have been notified, and no government representative has responded. Just a moment to calculate the exact number of seconds, I'm sorry. We've got 10, but we'd rather check the computer so we don't take away any precious seconds. [[...]] The first one has the word, Mr. Sok. Everyone has three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Earlier, I also wanted to explain a little bit more myself why I am saying that nothing changes in the area of agricultural taxation at this time, but I have run out of time, so I will try this in three minutes. See, in this National Assembly, as far as agriculture is concerned, the law has already been thoroughly corrected once, namely, we have corrected the area of complementary activity when it comes to calculating the tax through standardised expenditure. You know that before the correction, this percentage would be 25%, and then we fixed this amount to 70% to 6 million. At this point, this remains the same in this law as it was, by raising these 6 million to 10 million, which is of course significantly better at this point. As far as the taxation of vineyards produced from grapes is concerned, nothing changes. It is said that the processing of olive oil remains a basic agricultural activity, by multiplying the cadastral income in vineyards and wineries by two and the cadastral income for olive oil processing by 1.5. I agree that the cadastral income for olives is still too high, but we cannot fix it in this law, but in the Cadastrian Income Act. As for non-taxation of bees, up to 40 bees remain the same. So, taxation is nothing, nothing changes in this law. With regard to taxation on environmental programmes, it is said that in order to reduce processing, you know that this was previously resolved in the Regulation, now this will be regulated in the law itself. The key correction is for all of those, as some have said, they are not farmers with less than €200 of cadastral income, but 450 thousand of them will now be exempt from this tax. 200 euros is not much, but represents a lot of additional burden and costs for the country itself, and this measure is very good and in a positive direction. About whether investments will be exempted - we are all talking about it, the minister said that they are thinking about it at the Ministry, and I think it will be the end of the day, and it is wise to do so, because the taxation of investments has been brought by the previous government in the previous law. But it's up to us to give ourselves a new chance to make this right. The point is that investments remain unresolved in the taxation of investment funds. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Moge's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I couldn't do it before, I'm going to do this social dissuasion that happens with the adoption of this law. See, in the first income class there are 62.43% of all taxpayers and 797 thousand 114 taxpayers who have a net salary of up to a maximum of 143 thousand 271 SIT. These taxpayers will receive a net salary increase of 889 SIT per month or for one smoothie and one small beer per month. In fact, this increase will not be experienced by these taxpayers, as their electricity has already increased by 2% and next year it is likely that even more so, the state of Telekom has now increased its subscription and impulses by 10%. Public transport has increased so much. Will most taxpayers really be better off and for what? I think the answer is more than a palm. And I think at a time like I mentioned earlier, when machines do work instead of people in the field, in a factory. When machines run planes, i.e. computers, run ships, we try to squeeze people and squeeze the biggest profits out of them. Is that the goal we're aiming for? Let's see what we're doing. You know what happens to the laws of those who are in the employment office? What was the Government's opinion on some of these employment issues? What happened to those who received social assistance, what was the view of these people, what should be done with them? It is necessary to strive for such a flexible labour market, which means that such legislation must be adopted, which even more than ever makes it impossible for a fixed job and people in this workplace to be completely insecure. [[...]] Worktime allowance needs to be abolished; people who have worked their whole lives need to be put in line with those who arrive on the first day of work. Who cares about lunch or lunchtime at work? Yes, this government! Who are disturbed by the fact that transportation is taxed and taxed? Is this really what we promised the people in 1991 that we would have a safer future and a better future, a future where they would not otherwise be drained of honey and milk but would be pleasant to live? Is this really the kind of legislation that some parties have fought for? With what is now coming to Parliament, I think I know more than well why the SDS has moved into SDS. The SDS, formerly the Social Democratic Party, is now the Slovenian Democratic Party and why they are ashamed of that'social'. With such laws [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! My fellow Member Moge, this government has not abolished any social rights, is trying to get them on the same denominator, or that we will know how much someone gets, and that control will be in the back. Mr Shircelj mentioned the benefits. You know, two days ago, retirees, I'm talking to them -- what's going to happen now, senior relief, that's one of those that's going away, actually, it's only now worth over 400 thousand or 470 thousand tolars. But my dear pensioners must know that we will not deceive them. Looks like the ones who talked to me were being misled. However, I have serious concerns about how to reach an agreement between the social partners, given what the government is now proposing, and which unions have their representatives. If I remember a few days ago when I was watching Trenja and they were representatives of two unions and Pergamum were free unions, that's how I felt, and I'm going to say here, just like some parrot was saying the same things because they literally don't see more than a few meters ahead. In fact, they have debated what the gentleman before me, with respect for Mogo, has discussed, but I think there is a need for a constructive agreement on these matters, and I am also sure that these agreements will take place as far as labour law is concerned. But once again, I regret - what I have been watching on this show the last time, but I was quite disappointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u95	I would like to argue that this law or this tax reform is not a tax fraud. It's a tax fraud, sir from the government. Why is it a tax fraud? The tax fraud is because you say so yourself: the effects of the said benefits or otherwise, because the tax relief scheme under the proposed law is largely unchanged, only reliefs for residents after the completed 65 years and reliefs for various purposes and for paid amounts to solve the resident’s housing problem. And then you say, the effects of these benefits on the available income after taxation are, in principle, covered by increased overall relief and more favourable progress. It's really just until you look at the individual calculation. For people with a minimum wage, the net salary will only be raised due to the general relief for, if I calculated correctly, 889 tolars per month or for two coffees. For those on average salary, the net salary will rise by 7,500 tolar per month due to any effect. At the same time, by raising value added tax, by raising excise duties, by increasing inflation, the net income position will be reduced. If I include the effects that will result from the increase in the prices of durable goods, because some small groups make some 10 billion available, it is clear, of course, that on average it will not be serious, but on average it is, because we know that some eat cabbage, others eat meat, on average everyone eats tax segedin. After all, you calculated it yourself. On average, those with average wage income will be reduced by a good 4% on average, while those with income greater than the average wage will be reduced by about 10 percentage points on average. And if we add those who have 7 times, 8 times and 9 times the salary when we get to the various board presidents, then we get that tax gift worth one BMW for the duration of a government's mandate. And that's why we say it's a tax fraud. If you really created savings in the state budget and made these savings a burden, then this would not be a tax fraud. This is how you give a tax gift to someone, and this tax gift will be charged to everyone through higher taxes on the economy. And tax fraud is not the least because you said you'd relieve the economy. By doing so, the income tax does not reduce the costs in the economy by one tolar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much. My colleague Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I don't know if the government has a chance to answer at all, but I will re-emphasize question 42 of the Income Act, which sets a specific tax base on the income from the employment relationship for a public official and an official who is posted to work abroad. Here it is also regulated for those who are employed on a long-ship merchant ship if they sail on the high seas and are absent from Slovenia for more than 6 months. In fact, for these employees and workers, only those incomes or portions of income from the employment relationship that correspond to income from the working relationship are included in the tax base on income from the working relationship, which correspond to income from the working relationship, which would be paid for the same work in Slovenia. That's why they're employed abroad from our subsidiaries, I'd say, underprivileged. The proposal of the Slovenian economy or certain companies is that the status of these employees in companies abroad would be equivalent to that of public servants and officials and those employed on merchant ships of long voyages which are absent from Slovenia for 6 months. Indeed, the fact is that, for example, those who work in subsidiaries abroad are there for at least a few years, these are very high costs, especially because it is necessary to pay high costs for housing and for other costs associated with staying away from the family. This is how I think that the principle of equality before the law and establishing constitutions should also include this category of residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Let me just say for an explanation that the Minister has also applied for the floor and will have at the end of 3 minutes just like you, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, everyone is very welcome. The intensity of the debate or the controversy of the debate is entirely logical, especially when we are talking about the progressive tax rate in income legislation or when we are talking about reducing the progress made by this new law. Indeed, here this government has actually made a fundamental establishment compared to the previous government, and here it is, I think, as far as income legislation is concerned, a fundamental difference between the legislation drawn up by the previous government and that government. Once again, this gives rise to a completely logical controversial debate. I am not afraid of well-paid managers, or, if I am more accurate, after implementing this legislation, of better net paid managers; especially if they run businesses successfully. But I'm afraid of well-paid managers who don't do well, who also know how to drive the company. Of course, income legislation or this Parliament clearly cannot affect the decision-making or conduct of the supervisory boards. The control councils represent the owners. If they are the right owners, then they select their right representatives to the supervisory councils, which are also materially responsible for their decisions, at the meetings of companies or companies. And they sign individual contracts, they say, also pay members of the board. And the supervisory councils will decide whether individual contracts or, if I am more accurate, wages will be reduced or whether business plans will require more ambitious business plans from administrations. I wonder if we are demanding a more ambitious business plan, if this is not then some stimulus, let us demand the growth of the company to a greater success of the company. Once again, I am determined to support changes in income legislation, of course, especially when it comes to reducing the progressive scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. My colleague Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. The country's income in 2007 will be around 37 billion, almost 38 billion less. Mr Cwickl argues that this does not mean a burden on the economy or businesses. I can't agree with him. Those who remember when we talked about the tax on paid wages were saying that work should be burdened with all aspects because experts are escaping from private companies, because experts are escaping abroad and that the salaries of experts must be decommissioned in some way and increased so that this will not happen. The second thing that is, I think that this wage increase will result in at least some time less pressure on at least these wages. I think there's gonna be pressure on the lower wages, but certainly not on those. It is also that this opens up an opportunity for the social partners and those who enter into contracts to agree individually to divide this part of the remainder or lower taxes between the recipients and the entrepreneurs. Another thing I'd like to say. I like that 0.5% of my income, because every single person in the referendum can decide where they're going to put their income. I think this is the first time this has happened with us, and I very much welcome this, so I think this is a very good move for taxpayers. As for the fact that the Church here or anyone will gain and that this will be the richest institution, I would suggest to Mr Zagorec, who spoke about this, that he is still relatively young and that he can be involved in the priestly profession and will become rich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much. However, on the spot it was warned that the replica could no longer be implemented at this stage, so I would ask that you do not motivate any replicas not to say provoke. But the word is from my colleague Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Well, if some of us have any thoughts about some individual matter and we don't take it all as dry gold, then that doesn't mean that "a front" is rejecting the law, but I think that some things need to be considered and reasoned, and that is rational. Now, to my mind about young people, about students, the answer was that they were not 5%, but slightly less than 2%, which is, if we take an absolute amount, probably still a lot. Much more definitely than those high-paying student officials mentioned. Let me answer the question why students should not pay taxes like those who are employed, then my answer is simple: because they are students and because we have not yet arranged for students all the ratings they should have from scholarships to home, to regressed meals and so on. Another time. If I mentioned the commitment not to reduce the allowance for older people over 65 years of age, then I did not advocate a terrible high pension, but I had in mind an important difference. For the first time, those who have high pensions may have had to pay a high salary for many years, and this is a reasonable expectation that they will have more than average pensions. And secondly, I don't understand why those who have high pensions, perhaps former directors, would now be taking the current directors, who have 5, 6-, 7-, 8-fold gross income, but would put in. There's no legal rationality here, at least not for me, so far there's been an answer. And the third time. With interest on how - I don't know - I hope I didn't hear any mistakes, the minister mentioned that about 15 million tolars should be saved in order to make it easy for 500 euros. Now, for the first time, 15 million tolars isn't even that much money if someone wants to build a house, they can't, they can't buy one small apartment, and they have to save for a long time, and they have to do it thoroughly. And secondly, if, let's say, the interest rate of 2% would be 300,000 or more, but something much smaller is probably not, if the role is tied, interest is even more important. Most of these interest rates are collected by inflation and the rest by interest. And so we do not stimulate the building of apartments or the saving that would be welcome in our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Minister for some clarifications, from which I have understood that he does not want to say what is real and what is not, what will be taken into account, what is not, because he said they would study everything. On the contrary, let me be clear, I understood Mr Shirtzl, who made several proposals made by the coalition MPs, specifically mentioning that they would be examined, not by the others. This government has the right. I'm just saying, what we're saying is we're serious. If our proposals are also examined and perhaps taken into account, we can have a positive attitude toward the law, otherwise you will not and will accept it yourself, as you may have imagined. There's something I'd like to say about the data. I didn't understand the number problem for senior relief. Because I have information published by the Ministry of Finance. The title is The Commitments, which implemented individual reliefs in 2005, and, among other things, in the preceding indent it is easier for seniors, 16.2% of those in debt, which is a million 200 thousand, say, 180 or 190 thousand. What does that mean? The whole data is accurate because the fact that you're offering us information that doesn't mean anything to us, I'm going to say bad enough right now, because you're saying, every piece of data anyone gives is wrong, and you shake it off the hand of one that's also wrong. I'd also say that, look, talk about going savings from reduced taxes to businesses. Maybe, just entrepreneurs, directors say otherwise. I didn't hear the other one, Mr. Testen, like he said, sorry, it's not going to the company, it's going to the manager as a person. Whether it will be well-intentioned and what it will give to the company - perhaps just now to go into a bad solution, but to expect unions and employers to agree on what the government could not agree on or failed to take into account in the solutions - is, in my opinion, incorrect, too, not true. And there's something else I'd like to say. It's been said, the state is giving up and giving up. You know, you don't give up, but if you do, you should ask who's quitting and who's getting fired. And the problem is that. The income of those who can give it is forfeited and given to those who cannot give it and to those who save or demand about the same income. And in this part, think again about whether it's really possible to say it's 100 or 1,500 people. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Finally, he has the floor of a representative of the government. Please. Mr. Minister Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Let me answer that. I really think you're right. Some confusion has arisen as far as this data is concerned. One thing is who can apply a certain relief, and who can benefit it. They were implemented by 160 thousand 117 individuals. But it could be useful because they have a low base, 15 400 or 9% of it. Of these, they will actually be worse off when this senior relief, 2,356 people, is lifted, and these are those who have more than 422,000 pensions. That's information. But I'd like to repeat it again because "good" words don't apply. It is not the first time that we have said and heard again, so I must repeat that the changes in excise duties that we will introduce are introduced because they require European directives, and we will introduce them at the lowest possible rate of electricity, as the Secretary of State has already said, it is one euro per megawatt, for households and 0.5, 50 centimetres per economy. That is how European rules are and we need to introduce them. As far as the cigarette's concerned. They are cigarettes, and we also negotiated when Slovenia came to the European Union, a so-called derogation until 1.1.2008. The only thing we're going to do is that what we have to do minimally, we're not going to do 1.1.2008, we're going to do 6 months earlier, with 1.1.2007. That's the big difference. However, I should also explain once again that insistence on data from some additional deficit of 110 billion, but I think that, not only is it disputed with someone – intellectually it is not understandable because the data are already on the table, it has been published, it has already been discussed. But then again, talking about these things is really hard, I'd say, even with good taste. The fact is that the 2007 budget, which was adopted by the National Assembly, envisioned a deficit of 93 billion and a few other tolars, that we will reduce this to 77 and that the 110, which some experts misjudged and received a very good response in the media area, is neither the spirit nor the hearing. This is simply not true, and I hope that in this respected National Assembly, I will not have to repeat once again that 77 billion is certainly less than some additional 110. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide tomorrow in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or no later than 20.20. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - it's first of all a proposal for a law on the corporate income tax. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Please. Mr. Secretary, Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for a law on corporate income tax is part of a package of these laws which deals with tax reform and regulates taxation or tax treatment of corporate incomes, legal persons. The proposal for a law on corporate income tax is governed by three bases for corporate income taxation: who is the taxable person, what is the tax base and how it is determined, including tax reliefs, and sets a tax rate. The draft law also implements the provisions of the three Directives of the European Union in the field of entrepreneurship taxation. The bill is developmentally and competitively oriented, these are nice words, but there will certainly be a lot of debate about this. It sets out provisions clearly, specifically and in a way that brings certain administrative simplifications, which will facilitate implementation for the debtors and the tax administration. Because of this proposal, the law also constitutes a contribution to a more tax-friendly environment. The bill foresees a gradual reduction in the general tax rate of up to 20%, which will be reached in 2010 and will amount to 23% in 2007 and 22% in 2009 21% in 2007. The rate of tax evasion is reduced from 25% to 15%. With regard to the tax base, double taxation and less than one tax shall be abolished. This means that the taxable person’s income, which is included in the tax base in the current tax period or which has been included in the tax base in the past tax periods, cannot be reintroduced into the tax base in this or future tax periods. This is the elimination of double taxation. It also eliminates double economic taxation on the recipient of the dividends by exempting dividends from the recipient's tax base. Under the prescribed conditions, the tax base will also exempt part of the profits generated by the creation of ownership shares. The draft law defines the tax base for revaluations so that unrealised losses are recognised if unrealised profits are included in the tax base. It is envisaged that half of the established reservations are recognised as tax expenditure already in the design of these. Tax-free expenditure is clearly and definitively defined in the draft law. With regard to tax losses, however, the proposal for a law provides for the possibility of unlimited coverage in the following tax periods, and this is also a very important feature of this law. As far as tax breaks are concerned. The proposal for a law retains a 20% investment facility for R & D, namely for the internal research activities of the debtor and the purchase of R & D services carried out by other public or private research organisations. It is explicitly stated that for internal research and development activities, the debtor also includes the purchase of research and development equipment exclusively and continuously used in the conduct of the research and development activities of the debtor. This will create an adequate development climate which, hopefully, will encourage economic operators to achieve the so-called Lisbon objectives, and these include investing in research and development, innovation, employment of highly educated labour and restructuring of the economy towards more technologically intensive production with higher added value. In addition to this facilitation, the proposal for a law provides further relief for voluntary supplementary pension insurance and relief for the employment of persons with disabilities. The draft law adds a grant for cultural purposes and for the purpose of protecting against natural and other accidents of 0.2%, in addition to the already existing grant relief for non-profit purposes of 0.3% of taxable revenue. It is also envisaged to facilitate the implementation of practical work in vocational education. The proposal for a law on corporate income tax removes the general ease of investment in equipment. Taking into account the reduction of the general rate to 20% in 2009, at the end of this year, and in relation to the already mentioned tax-based solutions, the abolition of the investment relief will be largely financially compensated. Empirical research, such as the study carried out by the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana, has shown Slovenia as well as the comparable countries that investment incentives have no decisive impact on greater or additional investment. Both foreign analyses and analyses for Slovenia have shown that tax incentives increase investments by less than they decrease tax returns, while at the same time causing the neutrality of this tax. We estimate that the abolition of the investment facilitation system for corporate income taxation simplifies, while at the same time eliminating the tax relief granted to only taxpayers with a positive tax base will be compensated by other proposed tax base solutions. The bill also provides for a number of administrative simplifications, such as a reduction in the period during which the taxable person may not change the tax period of three years [[So far, it's been five years.]] , the possibility of time-limited transfer of losses over the following tax periods and the introduction of a notification institute instead of a permit for statusal conversions. With regard to transfer prices in the law, we propose that connected persons, either resident or non-resident, provide a smaller set of data to the tax authority, while connected persons within the Republic of Slovenia, at least by doing so we propose that the documentation be submitted to the tax authority only at the request of the tax authority in the tax control process. Simplifications relating to the exemption of dividends are also proposed, namely the condition of participation in capital or the management of a dividend payer of at least 20% and the condition of the duration of participation of at least 24 months. Dear Members and Members! Taking into account the characteristics of the new proposal for a law on corporate income tax, we can conclude that the proposal is properly addressed, entails significant simplifications of the system and a significant tax burden on economic operators. Accordingly, on behalf of the Government, we propose that the National Assembly support the proposed law as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law we are considering is certainly following the basic guidelines of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to achieve greater competitiveness by decommissioning the economy, to achieve greater development and also the efficiency of our economy. This would meet the conditions for achieving greater prosperity for Slovenes and Slovenes, or citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The law brings some simplifications, news, for example, a reduction in the period when the taxable person must not change the tax period chosen, if different from last year, and this decreases from 5 to 3 years. It seems important to us that it is proposed to recognise long-term reserves of 50% as tax-recognised expenditure already in their design, thus allowing the state to take over part of the risks of these taxpayers. What is important is what the Minister has already said: double taxation is eliminated; double economic taxation is eliminated and so on. It is also important for an economic operator that, if the accrued depreciation exceeds that depreciation, the amount of depreciation calculated by the method of equal depreciation and the depreciation rates set out in the proposal of the law, that this excess amount may be recognised as expenditure in the following tax periods. The draft law removes restrictions on the period in which the tax base can be reduced to past losses, which is also a very important novelty, since in the current law this loss must be settled in five tax periods. Although the bill no longer provides an incentive for investment in equipment, other than for the purchase of research and development equipment, other reliefs remain unchanged. Finally, what is very important is that the overall tax rate is gradually falling from the current 25% to 20%, gradually by 2010, which, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be an important burden on the economy and actually heading towards these goals that we have set. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law is an important step in creating more favourable conditions for the Slovenian economy, and a successful economy is certainly a condition for us to achieve prosperity for all citizens, to improve the economic situation of our citizens and to get there as soon as possible, and I hope we will also get ahead of these most developed countries in the European Union. Therefore, because of all these burdens, simplification, due to the more friendly environment brought by this law, we believe that this law is suitable for further consideration because of a more life-like approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u112	Thanks, lop. The word is given by Dr. Matej Lachovnik on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dear Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, this law, which regulates income from legal persons, cannot be supported. Taxation is too high, it is increasing, and this is far from the reform measures announced by the government. The tax actually contains two positive effects which are the following. For the first time it is really lifted that gradually tax on paid wages, which we support, even more, we have pledged to make this withdrawal happen faster. This is what we have written down in the programme by all parliamentary parties and public financial movements also allow this. Another such effect to be pointed out is the fact that certain dividends and financial investments in sales are not taken into account and, from this point of view, some legal entities selling or disposing of these financial investments are being burdened. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that, of course, it is also positive that nominal taxation is declining, but also gradually, by 2009 and 2010. Thus, the first conclusion is that what is favourable in this law, which is favourable to the economy, is introduced gradually by 2010. Those extremely unfavourable factors occur immediately, and these extremely unfavourable factors for businesses are the following: for the first time, investment facilitation is discontinued. Investment relief, which has so far been used by the economy to a large extent, is suspended and maintained only in a very narrow area. Another time. Depreciation rates are declining, increasing the effective tax rate. The depreciation rate for equipment is reduced from 25 to 15%, in the case of construction facilities from 5% to 3%. This increases the effective tax rate in Slovenia. One, of course, is the nominal tax rate. We can write this down differently, but so far there have been a lot of investment benefits in the law on corporate income tax. The depreciation rates were also higher than those currently proposed, and an effective tax rate was also appropriate, that is, the actual tax rate at which companies paid a relatively low tax rate of 16 and a half percent. It is now increasing to 18 and a half percent due to these unfavourable measures. This is a fact and it can be calculated very quickly. Some incentives for employment are also being abolished. Why the government is doing this is not clear, although it has declared that creating new jobs, increasing employment is one of the fundamental objectives. We can also find in Slovenia's development strategy that the goal is to increase the proportion of employees to 70% of the active population. In short, such a law as it is is in sharp contrast to the development strategy of Slovenia alone. Instead of reducing the tax burden on companies, it actually increases it. The effective tax rate is increasing. And now to talk here about how nominal tax rates go down, you know, that's ridiculous and offensive to this national council. Finally, the former Minister for Development, who was very much praised by the current Prime Minister in this National Council of his references, said himself that the government has the opportunity to say a nominal tax rate, if it wants to, to reduce to, for example, 15 or 16% and completely abolish all investment incentives. And then the tax rate for all companies is 15 or 16%. Another option was to maintain or reduce the nominal tax rate for a small amount and maintain investment incentives such as these, and in this case an effective tax rate would remain relatively low at 16 and a half percent. However, what the Minister of Finance has now done is to gradually reduce nominal tax rates for one percentage point, at the same time to abolish investment incentives and reduce depreciation rates, which actually raises the tax rate for companies, ladies and gentlemen, of course they are not naive, and the fact that they can read is that they can read. That is why these tax reforms do not support either. You know, big words about Bajuk's tax reform left only form. Form in nothing pleasant form. We have this in front of us today. The way public consumption is reduced, of course, is not clear because it is not declining. As a result, the Minister has failed to relieve the economy and fails to relieve businesses, especially those competing in the global competition. He had a number of possible measures, he had the opportunity to immediately abolish the tax on paid wages and thus actually reduce the progression in companies, he had the opportunity to limit the maximum rate of contributions to a certain amount, which would be the result of economic operators, as well as trade unions agreeing, saying hello, but he decided on a path that no one supports. I ask you in this National Assembly why neither the economy nor the unions support Bajuk's tax reform. Who's behind her, who's behind her? That's the real question we have to ask ourselves. The fact is that it has not been supported by those members of the Strategic Council, which, by the way, has not met for a year and a half in this Strategic Council, which was appointed only by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Nor did I hear him publicly support this tax form, from which only this reform, which is before us today, remains. I don't think that's good. And if you are not already listening to the government's opposition warnings, listen to all the warnings coming from the economy, and I would easily find 5 or 10 visible representatives of the economy here who are extremely critical of these proposed measures; who warn that an effective tax rate is increasing and does not decrease. Really, I don't know what the economic stress is here. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we cannot support this so-called tax reform, of course, because it is neither in line with reform efforts nor with the strategy for the development of Slovenia, nor with what has been prepared by the Committee on Reforms, which is why no one in fact supports: neither is it a union nor an economy. In fact, this is clearly only supported by the Minister of Finance and only by those who support this today and press the button that the law is suitable for further consideration, although, as I said, it does not in any way reduce the tax burden on businesses. We can therefore ask ourselves what it took two years to raise the burden of businesses in this national assembly or that in this national assembly, we will actually increase and not reduce the burden of companies in this tax reform. This is simply a two-year expropriation, so, of course, such a law as this, in the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, we cannot support it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members will be presented by Mr Ferri Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u115	Thank you, for your word. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In addressing the tax package, we must not overlook the fact that the tax system and the tax policy are not only a means of filling the state treasury and redistributing what has been created, but are extremely important instruments of economic and social policy. They are an important tool for the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and the objectives of the revised Lisbon Strategy. This is particularly the case with the law on corporate income tax. The role of the tax system as an instrument of economic and social policy is particularly important when a set of instruments for promoting and directing development is increasingly narrowed down to a Member State of the European Union. In the future, there is also a real expectation in the European Union that the tax system will be increasingly unified. This is an objective necessity if the European Union is to achieve its economic, development and social objectives. The government has taken part in taking into account the proposal of our parliamentary groups or parties to the Social Democrats to reduce the tax rate to 20%, but, as we see from the proposal, this is only gradually by 2010. Given the simultaneous abolition of the facility for investment in equipment and in jobs for first jobs with the proposal, we cannot be and are not satisfied. Our fundamental remarks that the government does not follow through on its own commitments on the key priorities set out in the 2007 and 2008 Memorandum and the reform forecasts also confirm a number of comments from the economic sector and the economy. It is clear that the proposal for a law does not bring about a burden on the economy, which is one of the main objectives of reforms and in particular tax reforms for faster economic growth, to increase competitiveness and to ensure new quality jobs. It is quite realistic, in our view, that, with the gradual reduction of the tax rate, while immediately abolishing incentives for very important investments in equipment, in jobs for first jobs, Mr Senjur, as one of the leading developmental economists, adds to this a relief for investments in less developed areas or for more coherent regional development, the economy will not gain this law if it does not lose. An effective tax rate is increasing; tightening the depreciation benefits further weakens the possibilities for urgent technological modernisation of the economy, which is an important condition for increasing competitiveness. This is contrary to the European trend, when technological and economic ageing is increasing faster. This is particularly true in our situation when, according to the latest draft budgets for the next two years, the government does not provide the necessary increase in resources for research and in particular for technological development. It seems that the social democrats have been mistakenly disbursed of the facilities and others for the development of a significant investment. The most productive investments are directly encouraged by the incentives. The overall reduction of the tax allows a significant share of income to be channelled towards consumption. We therefore propose that the Government re-examine and take into account our comments and comments from this debate, as well as a number of other comments and proposals. Chances are, no one's gonna say we're just criticizing and not suggesting anything. Among other things, the immediate reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 25 to 20% and the preservation of relief for investments in equipment and some others through the development of employment is significant investment. It is also worth listening to proposals to maintain a higher degree of amortisation for equipment and to accelerate depreciation, as this is in direct relation to faster technological development in view of the economic downturn and also one of the basic preconditions for greater competitiveness. The government should make better use of the relatively favourable international economic environment in the proposed tax legislation linked to the 2007 and 2008 draft budgets, particularly for our main economic partners and greater economic growth, as foreseen by the latest assessment, and of the higher projected inflows in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please. Sorry, that's what the list said. All right, let's go, I'm sorry. Mr. Mikolič, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, and once again, welcome! The proposal for a law on corporate income tax is certainly one of the fundamental laws of tax reform. It is set to achieve the objectives arising from strategic development documents. It will ensure a more transparent and stable tax environment, the elimination of double taxation and the legal security of taxpayers. This will create the basic conditions for investing new capital, investment and reduce the need for domestic investment to flow abroad. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that such a proposal follows the objective of reducing the burden of the economy or of ensuring greater competitiveness of the domestic economy on global markets. In the case of changes in the area of corporate taxation under applicable legislation, in the New Slovenia Group, in addition to the gradual reduction of the tax rate, we especially stress the taxation of provisions which will be recognised as tax expenditure in half of the value. The proposal also solves the problem of ratings and other double taxation, which will be recognised as tax expenditure and will no longer be taxed twice. Taxation of dividends between connected persons is 100% exempted when fulfilling the conditions laid down in the law and Directives. The transfer of losses will no longer be limited to 5 or 7 years to come. The company will be able to issue a donation for three years. The bill also contains a simplification in terms of keeping business books, as it coordinates accounting, monitoring business operations with those for tax purposes, so the tax base approaches the business profits found in accordance with accounting standards. In particular, the last solution in the bill was welcomed by the company of tax advisers when the president said: "I note that the proposal is already following accounting guidelines, which is very important. The tax-recognition also includes expenditure which was not included in 2005 and 2006 in particular reservations." This declaration is particularly important, since the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons is more complex by nature than income, not because of tax, but because of accounting and other rules. The details are therefore important and they are precisely the result of competitive advantages. But it is necessary to see them and, of course, to take advantage of them. The Law on corporate income tax in the New Slovenia Group also understands as a tool for implementing a coherent development regional policy. In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate coherent regional development. With tax incentives and appropriate development policies, we want to equalise the situation for life and work throughout the country. For this reason, we will seek to complement the proposal for a law on corporate income tax in order to introduce regional relief. Also in the area of the Income Act. This may be linked to investments, to investment in R & D or to both at the same time. In fact, investing in research and development will not help the poorest areas. We would also like to stress the need to define the criteria by which certain areas that can receive regional relief will be identified. Support from the New Slovenia Group is also granted for the employment of disabled persons, apprentices and students and students under the apprenticeship contract for the implementation of practical education. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on corporate income tax is a conceptually well-designed law that deals transparently and systematically with corporate income taxation in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate in the Slovenian People's Party that a number of proposals, comments from the interested public, both professional and professional associations and individual experts and political parties have been taken into account in the process of drafting the law on the status of working groups within the framework of the expert tax group. We also see as positive that an international comparison has also been made in the drafting process of the bill. In particular, the following elements of the new law are particularly important for simplification and a more transparent tax system in Slovenia, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party: for the first time, the basis for the taxation of legal persons is the business outcome, which in practice means that revenue is taxed reduced for expenditure and not for items of property. Another time. For tax purposes, generally account shall be taken of the business revenues and expenditure incurred in accordance with the revised Slovenian or international accounting standards. Simplification, in particular, facilitate the operations of small taxpayers, as business and tax balances are practically uniform, making it easier and more transparent to keep taxpayers' business books. Third time. Part of the current extensive documentation of transfer prices between domestic related persons is deleted in order to prevent the spillover of profits abroad and this simplification cannot be applied to other debtors. Fourth time. Systematic elimination of 2-fold and less than 1-fold taxation, a case of ratings. Fifth. Abolishing the double economic taxation of dividend recipients and the profits derived from the removal of ownership shares. Six. Reducing the tax rate, which is a neutral and attractive measure to promote capital investments. Investment reliefs in the past have resulted in a number of speculative purchases of equipment and rewards capital intensive industries, while tax non-recognition of the costs of credit ratings and taxes on paid wages is a penalty for labour intensive industries. A lower tax rate than most other measures divides the tax burden among the debtors. It's a week. Taxation of residents according to the principle of world income and non-residents according to the principle of source of income in Slovenia. Eight. A consistent tax recognition of all employment costs, including other payments related to employment, including ratings and taxes paid. Nine. Regulation of the tax treatment, merger and division of legal persons without unnecessary additional taxation. Ten years. In particular, tax incentives encourage the employment of hard-working persons, persons with disabilities, investment in research and development, and non-profit grants and collective pension insurance. Despite the many successful, previously mentioned measures contained in the draft law, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that, with certain amendments and additions to the law under consideration, it could be even better provided that the objectives of the comprehensive tax reform are pursued. Our estimate is that the reduced rate to 20% is still too high and too little competition. We are convinced that, with the corresponding reduction in budgetary spending, the corporate income tax rate could be further reduced by one or two percentage points, which would undoubtedly further contribute to the promotion of capital investments. At the same time, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that, without a doubt, the tax on paid salaries should be abolished immediately or no later than by the application of this law in 2007. It is our view that since the introduction of wages, wage taxation has placed labour intensive industries and industries with a more educated workforce in an unequal position. The common commitment of this tax reform is to align and simplify operating conditions for all taxpayers. By removing investment incentives, we are approaching this goal, but we must also abolish the pay tax as soon as possible in order to achieve this objective. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is that the abolition of the tax on paid salaries is the most necessary measure in the context of the reform of the taxation of legal persons and is therefore placed as the first of the first. In order to reduce the fiscal revenue provided for in this title, it may not be possible to reduce the corporate income tax in the first year, but we believe that, in terms of equating the terms of the debtors' business, it is much more important that the tax on paid salaries be abolished first and that the possibility of lowering the corporate income tax may be considered. Furthermore, the starting point set out in Article 12 of the Act, which is almost consistently taken into account in the tax definition of expenditure through the legal provisions, is unfortunately abandoned in Article 20. Notwithstanding the provisions of accounting standards that define the concept and the content of reservations, the latter shall be unduly redefined in Article 20 of that Act. At the same time, we believe that reservations, which remain among the more important sales reservations after the amendment, should be fully recognised in the year of the creation of these. It is a matter of simplifying the work of the debtors because, in part, 50% of the recognition of this cost requires additional records both in the design and in the drawing up of the reservations themselves. The budgetary revenue would thus not be reduced in any way, as it is only a delay in revenue for which the amount of the undertaking is decided on the basis of the statements and calculations. Taxpayers are also unable to make reservations of their own choosing for business purposes. Unused reservations become business and tax revenue in the year when the reservations are cancelled, i.e. as soon as the reason for their formation ceases to exist. In order to avoid speculative reservations, however, in our proposal or opinion, the removal of unjustified reservations would be sanctioned by a 50% increase in the base for these reservations. Upon cancellation of the reservations, the taxpayer should increase the tax base for the value of the removal plus 50%, thus preventing the possible abuse of those assets. We also estimate that the law is too restrictive in tax recognition or non-revaluation of business claims due to impairment. Limiting the tax recognition of a decrease of 1% of taxable tax claims under the conditions of experience from previous years would be sufficient, and it would not have affected the final fiscal revenues, since the taxpayer must include them in the tax base in the year when the payment takes place. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is that the term arithmetic environment for the tax regulation is inappropriate. The arithmetic mean in the past three tax periods of the actually written-off claims is a diction based on an unjustified assumption that the individual debtor has the same volume of business for several years in a row and that he has been operating with the same risk of default customers all the time. The assumption may still hold back from the debtors who have many buyers with small claims. In particular, it places smaller and medium-sized undertakings with fewer buyers in an unequal position. In the latter case, it is not appropriate to define the average of the last three years. We also propose a uniform tax treatment of investment and pension funds irrespective of their legal organisational form, which is in practice different. In our view, it is necessary to define all investment and pension funds as a debtor in the law, thereby allowing access to agreements to avoid double taxation of conventions concluded by the Republic of Slovenia and thus provide greater budgetary revenue from this source. Special treatment in law requires the role of legal person established in Slovenia to provide mandatory reserves of oil and its derivatives. In accordance with the provisions of the accounting standards of that institution, when the oil reserves are restored, the rise in oil prices creates a tax base that is not conditioned by the operation of the plant in terms of the sale and purchase of oil derivatives. We propose that, in order to avoid complications with the financing of this institution and the possible payment of income tax for that institution, the rate of tax of 0 should be prescribed for 2006 as far as possible. The same solution can be found in a number of Member States of the European Union, such as Germany, Spain, Hungary, France and so on. With regard to the proposed depreciation rates, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that it would make sense to increase the proposed depreciation rate for equipment, vehicles and machinery to 20% annually, although many equipment technologically obsolete significantly earlier than in five years. The alternative solution we are proposing would be to split the groups into two parts, namely vehicles and mechanisms, with an estimated 15% rate, and a level of 25% is prescribed for equipment. Our view is that, when the tax relief for investments is lifted, it is reasonable and necessary for the taxpayers to recognise the appropriate costs of depreciation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we propose that our comments be examined and that the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is a suitable basis for further consideration and that we will also support the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u121	Respectable present. The law before us today, i.e. the proposal for a law on corporate income tax, has positive consequences, on the one hand, all of these positive consequences have been mentioned by government Members. However, the fact is that it also has many negative consequences and has so far been cited by two other opposition parties. However, I think that, hand-to-heart, we will make a significant difference if we all read together the assessment of the state of the financial consequences and other financial consequences. This is: "The bill has no effect on other public funds," first sentence. Second: "The estimated tax revenue outage from legal persons' income will be covered, for the first time, by a certain reduction in public financial expenditure," which, of course, we welcome in the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. This means that the budget in the expenditure side will also be reduced. Regrettably, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues: "...and under the burden of other public financial revenues," which of course means that the remaining revenue of the budget will increase, i.e. the tax nature. Therefore, in fact, as far as the impact of this law on public finances is concerned, it will have to be expressed in an increase in the second source of tax revenue. Therefore, the relationship between tax and tax revenues will remain unchanged in the structure of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia; hence, the macroeconomic law does not have all the positive characteristics that government representatives have stressed in presenting their views to us, on the one hand, on the other hand, there are not all such negative views as you have highlighted the other two opposition parties. Allow me to point out, especially from my point of view, those negative sides of that law. Why negative, why not positive, because I am an opposition Member and it is in my nature to warn and propose better solutions than to praise and neglect the negative parties that the law has behind it. Personally and within the framework of the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe in investment and believe in a positive investment flow and believe that investments from the very base to their effectiveness need a certain period of time to be counted over the years, in some of the activities also in the decadesThe proposed law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia abolishes investment; in other words, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims itself, in the field of tax facilitation of the proposal of the law compared to the current system, that is, compared to the existing system today and here, they grant relief for investment in equipment. Of course, we don't think that's good. Investments should be encouraged from all sides both in equipment and in other materials, which participates at least in the production factor or in any other market mechanism, so agreeing and giving informed consent to reduce investment incentives does not seem appropriate to us. The depreciation rates continue to decline and, according to our assessment, is also worth mentioning at this plenary session, particularly in the sense that - we hope - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will change this further, in reducing incentives for employees. According to our assessment in a given situation such as that of the Republic of Slovenia today, we should not afford it. Viewed through the prism of some major Slovenian companies, it is also reasonable to look through the prism of these Slovenian companies, but of course effective taxation will increase. So the positive effects that come from this law will be less than negative, and three I've now counted from this law. So, unfortunately, what the content of this law is going to be is very dependent on the individual user of this law. And from this title, of course, we will be the decision of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, once again, because, until now, exclusively or positive things have been exposed and ignored by government parties, or on the contrary, extremely negative and neglected positive by other opposition parties, we will only take decisions to support this law after a government representative's speech. We hope that it will come forward during its debate within the framework of available time, in particular as regards the dilemma of investment facilitation and, of course, the incentives for employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In our DeSUS Group, we also believe that sometimes it would be good if we kept our principles, our promises and our commitments more than ever. I have in mind what we negotiated before the coalition contract was signed and what the coalition contract now includes in the area of corporate income tax. At that time, we have all announced that we will stimulate such a tax policy, which will be as favoured or as stimulating as possible as regards capital taxation, the income from the capital of companies that are engaged in economic activity, and so at least it seems to us that this is the best thing to do now. We have also committed ourselves to making the most of our resources to promote tax relief, in particular in the field of investment, employment, development, research, and today, it has already been mentioned that we will allocate funds or that we will have such a tax policy that will stimulate investment investment even in those parts of Slovenia that we normally call for them to be lagging behind in development. So, we have a feeling here, too, that we're not doing our best. Of course, it is true that the main purpose of this tax legislation, at least at the declaratory level, is to relieve the economy, but today we see that we have so many different assessments about this, that we certainly cannot have one and the other without calling on one and the other, and that there will therefore be a need for further reflection and probably another change. Of course, the reason that this law has become part of the agenda is not merely political, as today’s discussion sounds. The reasons are probably completely different. The reasons are that legislation must also be harmonised in order to listen to either economic associations or individual economic operators and to try to implement their proposals in the light of the considerations. It is necessary to eliminate what is empirically evidently bad, which does not work well, and that is quite something. For it is that we commit ourselves in this way in all the documents, in all the discussions to faster development, in fact to a better life for all. Thus, the basic ambition was to relieve the economy, multiple investments in equipment, in other investments, in development, in growth, in that our labour force would be as educated as possible, in order to have as many added value per unit of product as possible, in order to have as many jobs as possible and to increase social well-being in this way. Some of the steps proposed in this bill certainly contribute to this. The applicant simply says that the first thing that is necessary is a clear tax standard. So far, something has been contributed to this and will continue in the years ahead in the field of labour taxation. And this relief may be more important than any other. This is not a burden - in my mind I have a tax on paid wages - which would be dissolved, which would be lost as water in the sand when we pour it on it, but it can actually be some cumulative value for further development. What some call merely a nominal reduction in the tax rate, we also support. We believe that this rate of unloading, which is approximately 10% in the first year and 20% in four years, is important, but it is evident that it is evaluated by some other measures or restrictions or the abolition of individual tax exemptions. Also, by eliminating double taxation, we support certain other measures as tax reliefs, such as supplementary pension insurance. We do not, however, support - let me mention at least two ambitions - for the first time, the ambition, which has been constantly mentioned to suspend tax reliefs for investments, although the applicant considers that if they did not do so, they would not have any more investments, so the explanation says that this does not affect the increase in investments. We have some doubts about that. No such analysis has been provided so that we may even be convinced of it. Nor do we support what is happening now in relation to the great favor of political parties. First of all, we talked about this today in the Income Act when it is suggested that it is possible to withdraw part of the income to finance political parties, and now we repeat this once again so that companies can pay bills to political parties so that they can donate even for a few years in advance. This is not exactly, at least in our judgment, a way of getting policy out of the economy. Earlier, I fear that this could mean a great deal of enthusiasm for individual politicians, in particular for the appointment of directors who will be very much in favour of one, another, third or any political option in this second or subsequent years. We should probably resist that, and we cannot support it in law. It seems as if we would like to defile ourselves, because today we had this kind of assembly in the morning, to mention as metaphorically as we would like to spread politics like metastases across the economic body. And let me make a little joke for the end. A colleague earlier asked how no one proposed an increase in taxes. And I, as he was jokingly jokingly told him that the previous tax administration had set taxes so high that we would continue to work for a number of years to reduce them, so that we are actually lucky here. However, we will have a number of concerns about the attempt to enforce any thought, or we will support the law as suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u124	There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Like the whole parliamentary group, I believe that not only in this law but also in other tax legislation is a whole series of illogicality and nonsense. The most significant part of the law on corporate income tax is the fact that the Ministry of Finance or Government, in its proposal for a single-handed law, takes the other hand and does harm not only to the economy but also to the whole country. The fact is that it redirects relief, increases overall relief, while lowering the general tax rate, while the tax or relief for investments cancels, means that it actually redirects the consumption of capital owners to consumption. In fact, a reduction in the profit tax will result in the ability of the capital owner or the profiter to direct these assets to a non-useful rather than to target the economy and the development of the economy. And what else is going to happen? That the profit after tax would leave the country without any restrictions, while the investment would remain in Slovenia if the tax relief remained. It is said that the capital owner would invest in the economy, in the development of the economy here with us and not spill it abroad. In fact, this means that, as with a variety of other changes in tax legislation, the government is actually incurring funds, and this very large asset, in the hands of rich or richer people, is said to be in those layers that do not, in any case, need special aid from the state, as in the case of the Income Act, where it actually flows income or by reducing the tax rate on the highest incomes, actually spills state resources from one segment of the population, the one that has lower incomes to another. Especially because it reduces or eliminates reliefs that are essential. If we just look at the abolition of the income allowance to invest in the purchase or construction of housing for our citizens, it means that, indirectly, it also reduces the possibility of investment in construction, in the economy, because, irrespective of whether this may look like it, especially in the state budget, it will not be much known, but it will be known in the calculations that any natural person who wishes to invest their money in the purchase of an apartment or building will consider whether this purchase or construction will even take place or will only take place in a few years. It is said that the actual intensity of the construction of residential buildings will be reduced in this way. With the increase in the relief of buying an apartment or building a house, the whole species, in particular young families, took the pencil into their hands and began to think and calculate what it really means. The fact is that for two salaries, which are, say, five million tolars each as a tax base, 4% represents 400,000 tolars per year. And in 15 years, that means a lot of money, which means 6 million dollars. Six million dollars is the amount that makes it worth deciding whether to buy an apartment or build a house today or only five years from now. I therefore believe that the Government, in its decision to abolish certain reliefs, in particular those that actually promote investments that promote economic development, rather than acting just the other way around to increase them, and that it would increase general relief or general tax rates. In this way, the impact and therefore the resources of natural persons would be focused on development and not on consumption. That is how I think that, both in this law and in the Income Act, the wrong objective is. I must say that I am very sad that it is precisely those changes that have actually been started in this government that the government has decided to withdraw from them and that it will instead shift tax reductions rather than into private consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor, we're all gathered. I'm only partially satisfied with this marriage, to be perfectly honest. It is true that this law wanted to make some contributions to the faster development of economic operators, etc. It is true that it wants to provide taxation that would enable taxpayers to have an adequate tax environment to invest in direct investment and to eliminate double taxation, greater legal certainty, etc. These are really some steps that are going in a positive direction, but I personally fear that the Slovenian economy with this measure will not be satisfied with this law. This is some of the things that the tax rate, which is still too high, is an uncompetitive Slovenian economy, especially in terms of the labour intensive sector, which is still large in Slovenia. This story is still overloaded, and this cannot possibly be competitive, so the Asians will work even harder than they have worked for Slovenia so far. The second issue is the abolition of taxes on paid salaries. This should be a faster procedure, a closed story. We talk about this a lot, but actions are slow to follow. I don't think that's right. However, as far as the main problem that I see is the abolition of the tax relief for investment. This was very good for entrepreneurs, very good for them. I think that this abolition will seek to develop investment-technological and overall. I fear that this analysis, which was previously explained by the Minister, is afraid that they will not abstain completely, but I am also talking to the economists and they tell me a rather different story than I have heard from the Minister today. I fear that this effect will not be the one we all want together, both the government and the Members, but most of all our economists. I would say that one serious reflection is needed on the proposal for a second debate when it comes to the National Assembly. I think that here we really need to examine things, what is not, what is not, what is drinking water, what does not drink, but we will come up with some change that we all want together in this Slovenia. I know, on the other hand, there are limited possibilities. I understand that, too. However, let us try in this story of the economy where every story begins - an economy-friendly environment, incentives, employment, new technology and so on - this is a tax, a tax that will encourage or not encourage. I'm sure we're all aware of that. In particular, this applies to certain regions which are less interesting, such as Posavje, White Krajina, not to mention. Obviously, we cannot have such a tax policy here that would be conducive to investors in these premises. I'm afraid there's no such thing. We used to have this and it was very effective in my opinion. Today this is no longer possible, obviously, and it is not possible for those who invest in a less developed region to have certain reliefs, such and different, and incentives in these matters. Here I appeal to the government, the ministry, how might we possibly achieve more coherent regional development. This would have a concrete effect if the entrepreneur investing in Posavje, the White Krajina, was to say, which is a less developed area, had certain investment reliefs. Unfortunately, we are putting this off now and I fear that these investments will be even less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Our main comments and views were made by my colleague, Ferri Horvat. The comments focus on the fact that the proposed solutions, although they represent a slightly lower tax base, especially in the coming years, do not constitute a real burden and an effective lower tax rate. I have received some data from the government indicating that, with the projected gradual reduction in nominal taxation, effective taxation will probably not be sufficiently reduced in the coming years. I don't know how the data shows that companies are expected to be burdened by the reduction or the corporate income tax law for - how much? - almost 20 billion. If I also look at the data that you have produced in the government in relation to the 2007 and 2008 budget revenues, the latest figures for 2006 would show that the corporate income tax would still be 228 billion, the 2007 proposal based on the September data of 246 billion, the ratio of 7:6, 1.08% - by 8% would increase the corporate income tax in 2007. Where, gentlemen, is the unloading? I don't see it. And if there is no burden, then the fundamental objective that we had with tax reform is not achieved. You can ask what we really want and where we can take it. Ferri said whether with the faster reduction of nominal and thus also effective tax rates by maintaining, which everyone warns, exemptions and incentives for investments and for the establishment of new jobs, and these would be the solutions. You can say, I know, gentlemen, you're proposing solutions that will put even more pressure on the budget. I will say very directly, we are prepared to accept this in such a way that you will also consider whether, with the proposals you have today, you go with the changes in income, or you change the income law substantially, and thus do not count on the budget to be charged with income of 30 billion or more, but perhaps only at the highest rates, if they are such a big problem for you. They're not for us. Because those 1,000 people who are in the highest income classes that you show above the seven-time average amount to a million and two hundred a month and will have saved over 140,000 a month on your proposal. We personally believe that they will not save our country. But if that's a fundamental problem, let's make a deal. But this can be solved in a different way, and you, in order to achieve this effect at some of the highest levels, went to a complete change in income and to this account you have achieved or predicted 30 billion or more billion that you will now make up for. You say how. Probably with VAT for 2008, Mr Minister, don't nod me, I'm sorry, I'd rather see if you categorically say no, surely not. But you do not hope to say because the profession tells you that it is not certain that, through higher economic growth and performance, everything can be compensated and the VAT reserve needs to be foreseen. I like your attitude about this because it's honest because you're not telling us that it might not be true, but you're saying it might be true. It is only that I now use this term, the collateral damage to the entire tax package, which we do not accept in Social Democracy, as well as anything else, and we suggest that we think about it. These essential comments, which are more burdensome for the economy, can be achieved immediately or through lower rates or through the maintenance of exemptions, or in such a way that, if not possible, it can also accelerate the implementation of the law on the payment sheet, although I know personally that this is more difficult because we do not have this law in the process yet, and then we will also discuss when we will put it into place when it will turn. But that's the way it's supposed to work. And now there's only one concrete question. Reliefs for grants under this Law on the Income of Legal Persons and the direction of work of income under Article 142 of the Income Act. Are there any conscious differences or are the differences random? Differences, however, are for purposes for which they can be used. Is this because you wrote in a different way and wrote one marriage and the other, and you did not compare these purposes to each other, or is it a conscious difference? Then please explain them to us, but otherwise I think things should be as similar as possible. Now I don't want to burden you and the public by reading one article and the other, by showing where science is included, where culture is, where it is not, and so on. But I'll tell you the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! I am grateful for this question because it opens the way for me to explain a lot of things about this very issue of revenue that we are expecting from the implementation of the now-in force corporate tax law. This tax, by the way, has its history. When the law changed in 2004, professional services, both of them, presented the effect. And then it was expected that there would be a few billion more in 2006 this year. After we worked on preparing the 2006 and 2007 budget, that is to say, we had to watch what we expected from this tax. And in this National Assembly there was a very hot debate and I have also heard such speeches as I have already heard today, how everything is going to fall apart and that it is indeed a great deception, which we have anticipated will indeed be a little larger than the one envisaged at the time. And we predicted 165 billion, if I'm not mistaken, for this year. At that time, this was the subject of a very heated debate in this National Assembly, and I have read a magnetogram of it and we may be talking about this thing, how foolish it is, and it is a great fraud. In fact, it happened to be a lot more than that. This year, if there are definitive data now, there are none, but the estimate is that the revenue or revenue in the state budget under this law will be around 226, 228 billion. What's going on? It happens that it is very difficult in fact and in this reading also professional services, that it is very difficult to predict what the actual effects are when the basis changes. In fact, this foundation has changed very much. The basis has changed in 2004 and it is normal that these services, and above all the services of the Minister of Finance, are highly conservative, as regards the assessment of what should have been, because it is necessary to ensure that the matter actually runs out and that it will be carried out in accordance with some of the minimum precautions concerning the management of public finances. What is envisaged for 2007 is what you are now quoting, but you need to understand that this is still based on a law that is now in force. Companies operate under the 2004 law. And that was this big subject of this misunderstanding by certain experts who are still emerging, that the actual effect of the change that we are discussing now will be seen in the 2008 budget, only at the end of 2007, when companies close their balance sheets, will this tax begin to be definitively charged there after 31 March and there will be final accounts. The effect on the state budget, the changes to this law, which it is and which we are discussing today at first reading, will be known in 2008. In 2007, however, the previous law, as it is, is still in force. And on this basis, I can assure you that very conservative assessments are still being made of what we can expect. And 226 or 228 billion in 2007 as the revenue of the budget by the corporate tax is the right thing to do. I hope I've explained that. Here's the delay, because we're going through cash flows, our budget is based on cash flows, not business events. We will be those funds, this failure that we will actually achieve will only take place in 2008. That's why you found these numbers. I hope that explanation was sufficient for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u133	Thank you, President, for your word. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! With this package of tax reform, which consists of seven proposed laws, we create a competitive tax environment and open the door to foreign investors. This is particularly important for our domestic economy, which is particularly affected by the proposal for a law on corporate tax. Earlier, there was a speech that no one was excited about this law, but as much as I talked to the economists in our environment, I must say that they are satisfied with this law and that they support it. Many comparisons, analyses and calculations on the effects of reform have been made in the drafting of tax laws. On the basis of these, it is found that some amendments to the Law on corporate income tax represent a competitive advantage and elimination of certain anomalies in our current practice compared to other tax systems in the EU. In particular in the area of double taxation, which is abolished by the proposal for a law. In addition, the law introduces more favourable taxation of dividends, particularly in the case of holding companies. For them, dividends and capital gains will be exempt from taxation under certain conditions. The weak link between the economy and science will strengthen the proposal for a law with incentives or development and research incentives, thus providing a basis for faster and better economic development. In particular in cases where cooperation between scientific institutions and companies will be established directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleague and colleagues. I'll be very brief. I welcome the amendments introduced by the amendment to this Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. It is definitely a matter of unloading production factors, making work and capital. I welcome the reduction in the tax rate on the income of legal persons, or if you want the tax on profits from 25 to 23 or 20%, by 2010. Slovenia has not already had a high profit tax, so the reduction of the tax rate is a positive signal to the Slovenian economy. If we went lower, I think there would be a risk that the state of Slovenia, a country of some tax "dumping" in the European Union. I will touch on the facilitations, one fact, the government is proposing to abolish the investment relief in this amendment. This is, of course, a matter of debate, professional debate and, of course, a matter of exact calculations. The economists have different opinions here, too. I would have kept this investment relief if the calculations allowed it, but perhaps I would have put it a little differently, using it as an instrument for more coherent regional development. I propose that investment relief be maintained, but only for those in the least developed regions, the focus is on the least developed regions. The least developed regions could identify those that are less developed than the average of the Republic of Slovenia for more than 20%, for example. According to government calculations, this would be the pomur region and perhaps the inner-pear region. It is important that the regional investment facilitation is indeed used for the least developed regions and in the restricted area. For example, for a maximum of two to three least developed development regions. This would give us a strong instrument for regional development policy. I welcome the other news that this novelty of the law brings. I am sure that with some minimal adaptations this may be a good solution for the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. If I tried to narrow down the main comments following this law by the opposition, it was that it did not bring any economic burden and comments on the facilitation of investments in equipment. The reduction of the tax rate to 20% by 2010 will have a positive impact on the economy. This effect, as the Minister has already said, will not work until 2008, but this is how these tax systems work, and otherwise there is no way. However, from 2008 to 2010, these government revenues are expected to be lower by about 40 billion Slovenian tolars. This means a relief for the economy - 40 billion from this title. Another time. When we mentioned the news, the changes, the benefits for the economy, where one of these is also proposed to recognise long-term reserves of 50% as already recognised expenditure in their design, the country also assumes part of the risk of these liabilities. If we looked at the known data for 2005, the tax base was higher than 34.7 billion tolars on the basis of tax unrecognized expenditure for the establishment of long-term pre-accounted provisions. If we now take this 50% into account, we see that the potential risk or the burden of the economy is also reflected in this title. Some specific figures relating to the unloading of the economy or to more favourable tax treatment can also be seen from this law. I also welcome the facilitation of investment in development in those less developed areas. It is true that everyone, even personally, would like these reliefs to be wider, greater, with an emphasis, of course, on those areas where we are actually lagging behind development and with some incentives this development should be driven and levelled or reduced the differences between the individual regions in Slovenia. However, for those who have generally criticised these facilities, which are not now foreseen by this bill, I have not heard anything concrete about what this actually means. For example, how much of these incentives actually affected investment and investment growth, etc., what does it mean to reduce this tax base from 20% in 2004 to 10% in 2005, or is tax relief the only instrument that encourages such investments? Finally, we must also take into account that the law provides for a set of other measures, such as the full recognition of the cost of employment, the recognition of the already mentioned reservations, etc. This must also be taken into account when assessing the effects of this law. In general, I think, I am convinced that, despite the fact that the law is not ideal, that it can be improved, that one good basis is for us to look for even more favourable options in the next process and actually take one step towards decommissioning the economy and simplifying certain procedures concerning tax procedures or business itself. When we talk about the rate, the tax base based on this tax, I think it is also appropriate for us to look a little bit at other countries in Europe, because we would like to, I don't know, as low as possible, we agree that in the previous debate I said that everyone would probably be happy if the tax rate were nothing, but this is simply not going to happen. We live in an environment, in a situation, and we, on the one hand, have to worry about covering budgetary expenditure. If we compare the tax rate and the tax base with other countries in Europe, we see that we are not giving up this tax in any way, but this gradual reduction is a clear signal, it shows a clear trend that this government is actually thinking of a long-term burden on the economy and creating a more friendly environment. Therefore, this bill as a basis, I also support a basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u139	Thank you, again, for your word. I would like to refer to the debate already held by my fellow Member, Jože Horvat, on regional facilitations. I think that some of them have discussed here before the abolition of the tax on paid salaries, which is being phased out. I must say that the tax on paid wages will bring a lot of positive results to the so-called developed regions, that is probably clear to all of us here. In the undeveloped areas of the Republic of Slovenia in addition, thank God that there is still some of the so-called labour intensive industries or from production, we know the gross personal income that is, up to 165, I think there is no tax on paid salaries at all, and then this rather progressive scale. I think it is possible in this law to include this part or some invitation for potential investors in these areas as well. In fact, how to find some substitute for the situation in these underdeveloped areas is primarily shown by inappropriate municipal or logistical infrastructure. And this is what I am, given that I come from a region, not from a region, you know, the whole region is quite developed, quite advanced in terms of the degree of underdevelopment in the last period, but in the region itself there are areas, as in others, we call them some sub-regions, which are very different in terms of the degree of underdevelopment. And it might be right here to introduce some form of tax relief for potential investors, or perhaps now on investment investments. As I mentioned earlier in the presentation of the position, in the New Slovenia Group, we are, and will continue to strive for a balanced development throughout the entire territory of Slovenia. That is why we also supported the formation of small congregations from this very area because we believe that this provides a new impetus for the people who live there. However, without economic development in the true sense of the word, we will not be able to achieve it. And I myself will support any solution that will provide greater opportunities or, I would say, which will also attract potential investors for these areas in Slovenia. However, I believe that the law that we have received today on the table or that is under discussion is a good basis, bringing good solutions. Once again, as I mentioned earlier, any solution that contributes to equitable development will be welcomed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you allow me, perhaps before I go specifically to certain solutions in the law, I would say two, three words about tax reform as a whole, especially because some of you did it in the previous law, but I did not volunteer there myself. I would therefore say in particular that, with great attention, not only politically but also academically, if you would like, I have followed the discussions on tax reform, which were in the context of the debates on social and economic reforms, after the government has given its mandate, when it has promised that with all these measures, a programme of economic reforms, which is a very important part of tax reform, will increase competitiveness, prosperity and so on. I have also accompanied the functioning and infamous disintegration of the Strategic Council, the resignation of the Minister, the withdrawal of some visible ideologies of reforms and conceptualists. And in fact, although I do not have the right evidence, I was willing to bet at the time that the matter would end as it was - that is, in purely ordinary graduateism or as sociologists would say, an incremental change in the system of state internationalism in this area and so on. And to be honest, there was no other way to expect it. And more than that, getting something else could be even more terrifying and even more dangerous than it is now. The story came where we all kind of waited for it. Otherwise, it is significant that this programme of economic reforms and measures that I have thoroughly studied, including tax legislation, as I mentioned, is important or significant since among these 67 measures, if I am not mistaken, the vast majority of these measures are completely normal measures taken by all governments in the world, and therefore these governments are to work daily to implement them and to function. So it's actually typical of most of these measures, but it's simply that they represent the ordinary government activity, whatever it is, wherever it is, and it's even questionable why this big talk about reforms. It is a simple question why the government cannot work normally - come by law, tell why it changes it, change it and work on it. Why does he need this framework, why he needs this ideology of reforms, why he can't work without all this ideology, without all this cover that's kind of driving around and causing him trouble? And I must say, by this logic, I would say that these reform ideologies are largely a reminder of the rule of socialism, where nothing could really be changed without a major reform. You will remember that socialism was a major reform itself. By the time one reform had ended, the other had already begun and the reforms were dragging each other to the tail, ever lower, ever deeper and in an increasingly hopeless position. I remember my own colleagues at the university who tried to doctorate from the political system in the present Yugoslavia and Slovenia and were very frustrated because before they wrote the facility, the system had already changed so that when they wrote the dissertation, the system was not the same and so on. All this logic of this vote after the reforms somehow hides the fear that life is in fact made up of a number of small changes that need to be somehow directed, and that is, preferably without imposing all these ideologies up, down, down here and there. And the Income Tax Act, of course, is a similar story. It's nothing too big. If I go out of this big political story again, I would say, this is the story we're going to talk about, we're going to try to explain to people what the unsolicited consequences are: when you reduce the nominal rate to reduce the tax burden of the economy, in fact, with an effective higher tax rate you increase the tax. This is a typical feature of this law that others have talked about and is bad, so I will not be able to support the law in this segment. The second thing I really wanted to say is that, according to my donations to research, which could be new, I would say, the reforming property of this law has been neglected. Why? Sometimes we can ask ourselves why a multimillion dollar or billionaire in rich countries spends a few million, even billions for research purposes, donations, not buying equipment, what is understandable and so on. Why is he doing this? Because altruism is worth it. And that the fact that altruism is worth it is not taken into account here. And right here, we are going to propose an amendment to increase the possibility of donating to the research sphere, provided that these are programme groups or groups that meet the criteria of the programming groups under the Science and Technology Act and which need this money for very specific matters. Why? For the last time, the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology at the Institute, Josef Štefan, told researchers not only to write texts and publish them in magazines but also to give them ideas and develop ideas for God's sake. And here is the problem of a good part of Slovenian technical and natural science, that our scientists are extremely capable of producing new knowledge at a discriminating level, but that they do not have the opportunity and the means to verify. This review, however, is very expensive in modern science. And these verifications sometimes cannot and cannot finance public funds simply because public funds are also presented to evaluations and these evaluations are to a large extent espionage. And that's why we need to push private money into this sphere and control it depending on who gets it. And we will make such an amendment, and we hope that you will accept it. Public funding does not mean much, but it means an enormous amount for the Slovenian research sphere. That'd be the end of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to the Member that he has opened this question. In particular, I believe that as far as research and development is concerned, because this is the pressing issue of our society, as you may have already noticed, this is the only relief that the Ministry of Finance has advocated and has also proposed to the government, and the government has finally approved it. It's the only one that actually exists. And despite the fact that I can't do anything different than repeat what the profession all over the world is saying that reliefs in themselves are actually unfair and ineffective in nature, because they create differences in effective levels within and between sectors and within sectors, thus having negative consequences for resource allocation. It reduces current and future revenues, as if there are certain targets for expected revenue, taxes on other activities need to be increased. It's a tragedy of these reliefs. On the other hand, it is also easy, although we all know that taxes are important in investment decisions, and in fact this is the opinion of the profession around the world, I would say, this is a recognised category, that economic stability, good infrastructure, access to natural resources, good and skilled labour, fair rules of the game, countries are much more important than taxation itself, as regards investment decisions. This is well-known in professional circles. But we stand for this and we stand for it in one very special way. It is and in our society we have this big problem, on the one hand, we have very successful and smart people in the field of research in the academic world, universities and institutes, but in fact there is no link to our economy. What's going on here? It's hard to know. We could increase resources in the budget so that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will have more money and that it can continue to finance, but this is exactly what you marked in your presentation, that then this happens in an open way, which practically actually helps also unfair competition, because everything comes on a day and it has to stay hidden. That is why we have advocated such relief to endure. We've already introduced it. I must admit that the effects of these first months of this year are not very strong, I am in a sense disappointed, I expected that there will be more, because at last there is only some money aid, but it is without direct introduction for the state administration to decide on this. No bureaucrat decides who to make a deal with. Let it be concluded by entrepreneurs with that institution or by a professor-expert who trusts him because they are finally their means. The state will only admit something of this, forgive one part of the tax to try to help achieve this, but in fact the option that the state has is an option, we know that if we want to implement the Lisbon Strategy, we need more resources to do so. How do we do that? Are we going through the budget or are we deliberately giving up the part of these funds that are supposed to come into the budget to help this happen? I think that this feature of this relief is precisely the answer to what you have opened up, that through the budget it is extremely dangerous and the private sector is not very fond of it, because, among other things, different commissions and also competition must explain what they have. By doing so, in such a way as this is laid down and as a sub-legislative act has been written between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Higher Education, this part is respected. I don't know if this relief will actually have such an expected effect, but I would like to know if anyone has a better idea, and I'm sure what you're predicting will also be studied, and I'm happy to examine it. Perhaps this is an addition or a more positive approach. But for once, there's a reason for that, but it's like I told you. Otherwise, we do not believe in relief, but there is such a gap between that, it is said, what our country has in the field of science and what it really needs our economy to do, that we must do something to connect it, in such a way that it will not be in line with a planned economy as it used to be, but rather the openness of the market economy, that entrepreneurs should decide for themselves, choose, without intervention, not the Minister for Finance, but at least the Minister for Higher Education and Science. Thank you. And that is what he deeply agrees with. The Minister of Science.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! This law on corporate income tax is actually discussing this second part of the so-called tax fraud this afternoon. I will talk about this on purpose, because this law is the one with which you cover the 77 billion income shortfall in relation to the 2007 budget adopted. Of course, Mr. Secretary is laughing. In particular, it laughs because it is very lucky that Slovenia achieves high economic growth due to past results and also because of past equipment reliefs. Mr Minister, if you look at the balance sheets of Slovenian companies, Slovenian companies that are on the stock exchange, Telekom, if you want, its key value has been created for ease in equipment. One of the big questions that will be in the coming years will be what will happen when we stop facilitating equipment. But the problem with this government, and that's why so much easier for the minister to laugh, is that there are no other ministers in this government. The Minister of Labour has allowed us to cut back on our first jobs. He's allowed us to stop making it easy for the hard-working. However, the Minister of Science has allowed, of course, the relief for the first jobs in this law has been abolished, but he has allowed the abolition to be facilitated by 30% covering the salaries of doctors of science. All of these are reliefs that end with this law. Since at the same time, gentlemen, we have raised or changed the depreciation rates, so that, of course, we have broadened the tax base, the fundamental tax fraud of the reform that we have before us in the fact that a large tax donation to a small group is financed by a much greater taxation of the economy to a small group. Let's look at the figures, 124 billion, of the last year of the so-called period of the previous government. 2007 - 246 billion corporate income tax benefits. Almost 100% increase, in 2008 – 230 billion, a slight reduction due to the changed rate. If any minister were lucky like you, then this extra one-off out of a lot of effects, I'll talk about them, I'll use them to relieve what's burdening the economy the most, and that's the tax on paid wages. Ladies and gentlemen on the tax administration are likely to find out for a few years how the tax base increased for this in 2006, 2007 and 2008. Since in these years it comes into the tax base, after 15 years of saving through revalued capital or through the creation of general and other reserves in banks, the 15-year reserve that we have created in Slovenia since 1991, and now because of the implementation of international accounting standards, it becomes part of tax returns, financial statements and then tax returns. It is true that this goes on in three years, but, Minister, if you consult in detail with the International Monetary Fund, they will tell you that these are one-off effects, that they are "windful Gains" and that they should be excluded from the tax base. In neighbouring Hungary, by the way, they also have a serious income problem because they no longer have these unique effects at the time they privatized family silver. The only difference between us and them is that we have saved this silver for 15 years with us, and now in 2006, 2007 and 2008, in banks, it comes through international accounting standards into the tax base. At the same time, you have, of course, changed the depreciation rates and are increasing the base in 2008. That's the facts. That's what the numbers say. I understand that the minister was laughed at when he found out that he was having such a big setback, and he found this in the middle of the year, we know why, due to the 2005 bill and the higher tax on legal persons' incomes this year, he will have a total of 228 billion realisations this year instead of 164 billion in this year. And these 60 billion, transferred to the following year, have just been spent on what you decided to do in the Income Act, is said to be a major tax division or burden on some individuals. The corporate income tax is simply the second part, the mirror image of this whole package, so, of course, when I look at this law in more detail, I am no longer surprised that, of course, there is no more tax burden recorded between the objectives of the law, the objectives of the bill are to ensure taxation, [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] economic double taxation, tax obstacles, shortcomings, etc. [[..]] In recent years, however, we have even received large publications at home in recent months because tax relief is the main objective of tax reforms, but the economy will not become burdened by income tax due to legal persons, but will be taxed further. This debate would be much easier if we had today - and I expect you to prepare this for the second reading - specific balance sheets for some Slovenian companies. For example, the large exporter, the pharmaceutical industry, for commercial companies. It would be very interesting to see a domestic trading company and a foreign trading company where it doesn't matter where it gets its capital. It would be good to get tax balances for example for one large domestic bank and one large foreign bank and then, of course, for some processing companies, large or small, it would be very interesting to look at what is happening, for example, in the Akrapovich balance sheet, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] or, for example, what happens in, say, financial holding companies like Istrabenz or Sava Group and so on. [[...]] On this basis, of course, it would be useful to discuss whether the abolition of facilities is an opportunity for equipment, the abolition of first-time benefits, the abolition of reliefs for hard-to-work really the right way. Is, of course, what has previously been discussed the right path only to create research and development facilitations, where interesting, the most interesting of all in this law, that the sub-law on this subject will be written by the Minister of Finance himself. The Minister of Science and Technology in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not even choose to write with the Minister of Finance a sub-legislative act that would define research and development facilitations in more detail. That is why, of course, I regret, but it is obvious that the whole story of Mr Janša's absolute rule is in some way endowed with the fact that we have a very, under the terms of a strong finance minister who simply does not know other ministers who do not know ministers who must pursue the goal of full employment, or ministers who are supposed to care for more research and development. Well, it won't look like it's just the opposition who's lonely in the comments about it, and I'm going to read the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, in a letter sent to us on 26 September, says that they have otherwise cooperated constructively both within the Tax System Group, which was established as a working group in the preparation of the social agreement, as they have taken into account many comments on what they were told on the day of the Slovenian craftsmen. However, for the first time, the Management Committee of the Chamber of Commerce concluded: "On the basis of the content of the proposed tax laws, the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia considers that such proposals will not bring the necessary fundamental economic and social reforms. For this reason, the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine once again, before adopting tax legislation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the possibility of including the necessary content in those tax laws arising from the approved... "blah blah" framework and so on "reform to increase prosperity". Mr. Minister, government representatives, those who listen to us, we have a package of tax laws. If this package of tax laws on the basis of corporate income tax were to propose maintaining certain allowances and reducing the rate to either 18 or 20 and if it would allow income, instead of dividing a small group of some ten billion, to reduce the tax on paid wages, it could be a framework to increase economic growth. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. In 2006, in 2007, the Slovenian economy will be the most historically taxed economy to date. It will not have the possibility of facilitating investment in equipment, it will not have the opportunity to what was the basis of economic growth. And if you think this is going to have a positive impact on economic growth, I think you're wrong. I think that this is why Slovenia will be in a difficult position, and what is expected to happen to us at the end of the government mandate, which is mainly distributed on the one hand, is then covered either by higher VAT, higher taxation of the economy or end by debt. It is true, Minister, you may laugh, you do not have very many opponents in the government, but in the National Assembly we must challenge you because, with the proposals of tax legislation, in particular the law on corporate income tax, you have missed the opportunity to really burden the Slovenian economy. And you did this just because you're in the income tax because you're headlessly spending a few ten billion on income because you've gone, under the terms, to increase net wages for those who least need it. I will not support this law because this law does not burden the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! As the debate on investment facilitation continues and there is a need for an answer at this time, why the law proposes such solutions as are proposed, I have already asked for the floor. I would, of course, like to point out some things about the transition to a new law on corporate income tax and the existing law on corporate income tax. Indeed, financial revenues are also in this connection. And with regard to these transitions, there are also these financial revenues that have actually been mentioned. Indeed, reforms in 2004 and the Income Tax Act, which first entered into force in 2005, have significantly increased the financial revenues generated by this tax. However, they have not only significantly increased due to the introduction of accounting standards, but because of specific legal solutions that have affected the fact that the total revalorisation was taxed in 2006 and even in 2006? I want to say here that the reason was not international accounting standards and this transition, but specific provisions in this legislation. The economy is now taxed with 224 billion under the 2004 law and 2005 law. That is why we are also trying to change this in many areas. The second is, of course, when losses were taken into account and when profits were taken into account. Indeed, there is also a imbalance here, and this also leads to large financial revenues and to the results that we have today. In fact, this law, under which the economy is taxed today, provided for in transitional provisions [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? The transitional provisions provide that the investment relief should be abolished from 2007, which means that already in this law, this provision in force is written in order to ensure that investment reliefs are not actually contributing to greater development and so on and so on. [[....]] In this regard, I would also like to highlight the reasons why the government has decided to abolish investment incentives, or why, in its proposal that there is no more investment relief, but that there is still a real solution to R & D. This was done on the basis of two expert analyses: the first study is a study by the Faculty of Economics Institute of Law in 2003, citing what this study says: "Investment relief noticeably reduces the tax base and at the same time does not increase additional investment. The current tax incentive specification in profit tax also reduces the neutrality of the tax structure. Since, in addition to the low efficiency of the tax incentives analysed and the apparent tax damage, the tax incentive increases the complexity of the profit tax specification and therefore the difficulty of effective administration of the tax and the control of the evasion, a simple system without tax incentives is the correct solution to the current low rate of taxation." This is said, on the basis of expert opinions, on the basis of the profession, the government has decided to replace this investment facility with other solutions in this area. It is also said that the analysis of the International Monetary Fund has been carried out. And in short, it is also an ineffective effect and that it is easy to reduce simplicity and certainty in the tax system. So these are the main reasons why the proposed solutions are not an investment relief. These investment incentives are not defined in mind, they are not designed for what someone would not like, but because it has been found that a simple system - a simple system means as little as possible - can in fact ensure the competitiveness of the economy, the competitiveness of the tax system in which the economy operates. Finally, the whole direction of the development of tax systems is in the direction of lowering the tax rate. We can witness this in the European Union, and we can also witness this in other countries, so it is of course necessary to say from this point of view that the current investment facilitation is replaced by other measures: by recognising otherwise the weakening of funds, by deducting certain revenues arising from claims, by eliminating double taxation of credit and other expenditure and by actually creating 50% of reservations. In fact, this is the answer or the reasons why it was done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u148	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica, Mr. Master. I wouldn't have thought there was a right replica here. Mr. Testen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. I am confident that this debate will certainly contribute to the improvement of the marriage in the second reading. However, I would have one comment on this because it has been stated that our economy will be the most burdened in 2007 and 2008. I can't agree with that. I cannot agree, however, because all the actions we carry out in the field of all tax laws are tax cuts. Reduction of taxes, reduction of those taxes that were adopted in 2004. So, it can't be the most taxed period of time from this title, but one of the most taxed, I think we're going through a period of time. Another thing we're talking about is making it easier for the economy. When we talk about economic benefits, it is certainly important to mention first of all the pay taxes, the pay tax was introduced in 1996 long ago, in the previous government it was not willing to change in any way, the current government started to change it, and this tax will be abolished in the next three years, so that the effects of this tax will be around 25 billion in the coming year. We forget that the effect of the tax on the reduction of general relief from 25% to 23% is that for 2007, which will not have effect until the next year of 2008, it also represents a relief of at least 20 billion. If we calculate the effect of 246 billion planned for 2007 and subtract 2%, this is about 20 billion, so that these effects will gradually increase by an additional 3% over the coming years, and this is not a negligible relief. As for other R & D facilitations, we support them, but we also support R & D facilitation to the least developed areas in Slovenia, although the analysis provided by the Ministry of Finance shows that these benefits are not justified. We believe that this is also one way for these areas to develop a little faster, and I think it would be good for the government and the ministry to think about it and see what the effect of this relief would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Lachovnik, you still have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u151	Thank you. Dear Members! What the Secretary of State has said is indeed very poorly argued. It simply eliminates investment reliefs, which is the first fact. Second fact, it lowers the depreciation rates. Thirdly, in the case of a real estate tax, it additionally taxes leasing. And the fourth fact is, it eliminates some of the benefits for businesses in employment. You are additionally burdening businesses and thereby raising an effective tax rate. That Bolet study, or you know that the review was extremely critical of the members of the Strategic Council of the Janša government, which has not met in a year and a half, or that it has a whole range of shortcomings, and above all it is extremely static. And the fact is, if that were true, according to your logic, you could simply abolish investment reliefs and nothing would change, of course you would. This tax policy is not development-oriented and does not contribute in any way to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u153	Some other clarifications concerning depreciation or depreciation rates. With regard to depreciation rates, I would like to say the following: the depreciation rates are decreasing in equipment, on the one hand; on the other hand, they are increasing for research equipment. This is in the direction of adapting depreciation to the actual life expectancy resulting from accounting rules. Here I would also like to say that, as has already been pointed out, the law is primarily directed in this direction, that the tax base is as much as the business profit, which means, in other words, that this is supposed to be in the same category as possible. From this point of view, some depreciation rates have also changed. Regional reliefs have also been mentioned. I would like to point out that we already have in our current law defined so-called regional facilitations, these are facilitations to research and development. They are further encouraged for certain less developed areas in Slovenia, but this requires the consent of the European Commission, in particular because it may be helpful in this direction. However, I would like to draw attention to the Economic Zones Act, where, in fact, the current system offers the possibility of companies being set up in economic zones and actually operating there, they are taxed at 10%, which means, in other words, that there is a possibility. These economic zones are actually organised in Maribor and Koper. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Thus, the list of discussers is exhausted. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Please let the person who intends to apply to the debate press any key after the usual procedure when I say that the application is ongoing. I ask the government officials to do so by raising their hands. Please report. Six other panellists, as well as a government representative, have applied. Each of the panellists has 5 minutes. Mr. Pavel Gantar, please. [[Objection in the hall.]] Please! Mr. Pavel Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. I won't be long. First, a few comments on the problem of relief. At a purely theoretical level, it is clear that less than facilitated is a neutral tax system and so on. However, it is also necessary to take into account the specific nature of the relief in certain cases. And that's exactly what the law on corporate income tax is about. This law says with ease, so I understand: "Gentlemen, we will collect 20% of this income for you, unless you invest it in some things that will later bring more income to all of us, more productivity, more jobs and so on, and that is extremely good and smart." And so, of course, all the developed countries do so, so these reliefs are not limited there. And this is a simple message from this law. And there's nothing to refer to neutrality and so forth. The other thing I don't understand is depreciation. Technological development means one thing only. To change equipment in companies at ever shorter intervals. If I understand anything, then amortisation should be higher than lower before, because companies need to change equipment or equipment before they can follow developments. So again, it makes no sense that depreciation is lower. Otherwise, I must say that Minister Bajuk has well understood the point that I wanted to make with my proposal. We will prepare the amendment, and I hope that we will make a good deal of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u157	The President, I would kindly ask if your professional services, in accordance with Article 71(1), allocate time to what Article 71 says. Article 71 states that if the debate has not yet been debated, when the order is exhausted, the chairman will ask if anyone wants to discuss it. The debates of those who apply for this call may be limited by the Chair for a certain period of time within the time available for the debate. Seven of us reported, 80 minutes available, just in 11 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u158	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u159	Mr. President. As my colleague said before me and read the clause, it is true, "you can divide" and the president has divided. And probably after the discussion [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Can't, wouldn't split up if it was easy, doesn't say it has to. [[...]] And then, according to the new rules, when we apply on the basis of an electronic portal, it is likely that after the conclusion of those who have applied six or nine, he will probably ask again, because there will be time left for who is applying or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The practice so far, you know, remember that we had a maximum of 5 minutes in such cases. That's what we've been sticking to. However, since we will not go any further with these procedural questions, I have decided to divide this time into 11.42; and I ask you in line. Mr. Ferry Horvat, you have the floor, 11.42 minutes. Wait a minute. Let's change the weather. Mr. Ferry Horvat, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. I will try not to take advantage of this time, so in telegraph style only a few views or views. I must say that unfortunately, the distinguished Secretary of State of Shirtzelj has not convinced me with the reasons why the Government rejects or removes the current relief for certain provisions. As an argument for such a claim or non-conclusion, I refer in particular to the following. If we look at the justification of the law, we see that among the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the law in the first place is the pursuit of the development objectives of Slovenia, it is true that the strategic documents of the Lisbon strategy are being implemented, etc. The text offered, despite the good elements that this law has, does not guarantee the realization of this, one of the primary objectives or reasons for the adoption of the law. We have found this in the debate, and I am pleased that many members of the coalition have expressed the same opinion when they took up some of the proposals for relief. Second. For 14 years I have been in this Parliament and have had the opportunity to cooperate with four, at least, finance ministers, and this very right and good cooperation, including the present one, and there has always been a discussion among them. When we talked about taxes and advocated certain reliefs or incentives, we were focused on the budget. When we talked about the budget, the other way around. And I'm afraid the story will repeat itself now, which is quite logical or suspicious. We also see this from the draft budget, such as research and development. I strongly support this and here, Mr Minister, there is no need to have bad news that you have accepted, although you are not quite sure, as you said, that these facilitates, that they are useful or are effective enough to decide on such an facilitation, because what is envisaged in the budget under the R & D item is still too small an increase to come to the level of the European Union, that we are not talking about Scandinavian and other countries that give much more money for these purposes. And I am sure that companies will be relieved of this area, so that they will also have a positive impact on the integration of businesses with the research, scientific sphere, which is unsatisfactory today. Second. Equipment and first jobs are worth the attention, because the fact is that if we look at the projection of investment investments in the coming years, this is not exactly pink; we know the importance of investment, especially in competitiveness equipment and economic growth. And in addition, I very much agree with my colleague Horvato, the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called "most developed pomuri region", as is the present Director General of the Tax Administration - from the past, targeted reliefs and well-executed and also controlled deliver results within the framework of the policy of more coherent regional development, what we now have. These measures simply did not produce enough good results. And one thing, Mr Minister knows best that we are narrowing down the repertoire of possible measures to promote the development of the economy, growth, competitiveness and the like. Easy, with membership in the Union. It will be less and less possible to grant subsidies, state aid and various other measures, and to completely tie our hands and leave behind those instruments that are possible in the light of the problems we have, I think it has been very wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle. That's what I'd say now. I was right when I said no more than five minutes. This was an agreement on a college of all parliamentary groups. That was the agreement, and that is how we have done it so far, and since it has been such an agreement, please let the leader of the Group of Members inform you if you do not know it. That's why we're going to write 5 minutes from now on, and everyone has a maximum of 5 minutes to discuss. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u163	Mr President, what you have now learned is something that is humiliating to this Parliament and to every democratic parliament. There is no Parliament in the world in which anyone, president, college, club leaders, etc. They agreed to interpret the Holy Book, the Constitution of Parliament in their own way. You can agree on whatever you want, but we as Members have the right to work in accordance with the rules of procedure and only the rules of procedure apply in this consecrated space and nothing else. I beg you not to smile with such instructions, with such a dictatorship that you carry out. In the ruling coalition, you can do whatever you want in partnership, here, in this consecrated space, please don't do this, you don't have the right. It's against the rules of this house and not to smile. Mr Tanko, say the word because you have the greatest weight there that democratic procedures and rules in Parliament will be respected as they are written. Change if you have 60 votes, change the rules of procedure, introduce a dictatorship, just as you plan it, and as you do in the government or elsewhere you are already implementing it, but not here. Please don't do this. You don't have the right, Mr. President. You don't have the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Any more questions? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u165	Mr President, I think that what you have just done when you changed your previous decision is, of course, totally contrary to parliamentary practice, but also, if the College has reached a conclusion, the College's decision cannot go through a decision of the Committee on Rules of Procedure that it has not been, and cannot go through if there is an existing Rules of Procedure until it has been amended by 60 votes in this National Assembly. It is true that it is a very rare opportunity when Members of the obviously ruling coalition, where they have been most released, and there is a possibility that we will use more than 5 minutes at the end of the debate, but you must give us this right and you have already given it to us, so please, if you let me continue in 11 minutes and 42 seconds, as you have allowed Mr Horvath, I also believe that I will not take all the time, allow me and other colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Look, I'm gonna [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u168	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u169	I would ask if you would allow me what you have given me before one of the Members. I just want the same rights, not the bigger ones, not the smaller ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u170	Since this complication has occurred and I have indeed done so, I will allow you to do so. Please, you have the floor. But there's something else I'd like to ask. This Parliament should indeed be a democratic Parliament, but there should be some respect for the President. Please, this has happened several times before, and the chairman could say what we said to the college with all the leaders of the groups. If this interview is not valid, then neither are the colleges of the President of the National Assembly nor any of our arrangements. You have the floor, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u171	Thank you for giving me the same right as my colleague before me. It's just a short sentence. The College of the President of the National Assembly, many times said, is a consultative body. However, the Rules of Procedure shall apply in this National Assembly. I continue with the law on corporate income tax. Today was mentioned several times in 2003. Mr. Minister, Mr. Shircelj! In 2003, one of the key macroeconomic dilemmas in Slovenia was whether we will be able to reduce inflation quickly and whether we will succeed with other social partners to achieve wage constraints with social sustainability and whether we can close budgets for 2004 and 2005 by following the Maastricht criteria. Therefore, first of all, a hard tax law has been drawn up, however you criticize tax legislation here. This tax legislation, gentlemen, will bring us to the euro. This tax legislation provided what Slovenia has today, unlike a large number of countries; a large, high, favourable share, stable, robust public finances. At that time, the law, which he said, was passed in two steps, gradually abolishing the facilities, because no one knew exactly what the other effects of changing international accounting standards would be, and, as you yourself said, Mr Minister, it was true that at the Ministry of Finance they were and we were always conservative, so the assessment of tax revenues was made conservatively. But now it's not about that anymore. Now we have managed to meet the criteria for taking over the euro a few months ago. A key issue - fostering economic growth. However, the acceleration of economic growth without relief for first-time job seekers, without trying to hire hard-working people when currently in Krška 250, 300 people 12 months will sit at the employment agency. And there could be small, medium-sized enterprises that could benefit from tax relief to employ these hard-working people. But they won't have that option. There will be no chance that companies will hire doctors of science to get 30% of the benefits, there will be no chance for the first job seekers. That's why what's happening to you is what we see in the data of the Employment Service. An important increase in unemployed first job seekers and, of course, a significant increase in those most difficult to employ. In this law, however, the government removes an instrument that would, of course, allow this to happen. To say that the investment in relief was missed. Look, Mr Bolet's study, I know her very well, of course, is a dynamic study, she's only taken the first step. At first glance, it seems that investments in Mercator's trade are complete, in narration, tax-free relief. However, this study does not ask what is the next step in buying this Mercator from Slovenian producers. Now you have Hoffer, who is competing with this Mercator. Hoffer does not buy from Slovenian producers, Lidl does not buy from Slovenian producers. And if you think that today the Slovenian economy would be without investment in relief as it is, then of course you live outside the real world. As a former economist, Mr Horvath spoke a great deal about this. And I didn't hear one economist, you don't have one piece of paper from the economists who would say, "screw off our facilities, cut off our benefits for the first job-seekers, cut off our benefits for the hard-to-workers." You don't have those papers from your shopkeepers. Of course, it is true that you need money in the budget and therefore want to take money away from this economy in order to put an end to the previously created tax hole in the income tax. I'm going to give another example - do you think Telekom and Mobile would have seized 90% of the Slovenian mobile market if there were no ease in investing in equipment? I wouldn't. And of course here we would have Hungarian Matav or German Deutsche Telekom directly or via Matava. But we have a Mobile that is worth as much as it is, and because of this we have the value of Telekom on the Slovenian stock exchange as it is. And that is why, of course, I think that what you are doing is a very wrong tax policy and it is a very wrong public financial policy. As Mr Horvat said and the budget figures here show - there is virtually no serious increase in money for research and development in the 2007 and 2008 budget, there is only a few promises for European projects, and the most money is very, I think, unnecessary, stupid things, such as purchases of helicopters, high growth of material costs, high military share and so on. And that is why we are in a very difficult situation - we have taken over the euro, the Slovenian economy will be very exposed to competition, it loses tax instruments, and in the budget you do not provide those incentives that you could if you really knew how to redistribute something in the budget and put more into development and more into research. That is why I will not support this law, and I would ask nicely, and I would expect the government, instead of looking at the 2003 studies, to take another step forward and, above all, to read its study in detail. [[I'm talking about a study by the Institute of Economic Research.]] which says, "All these reforms are feasible if two objectives are met to really reduce the share of public spending." It's not like that. The share of public spending in 2007 and 2008 is at historically highest levels and has not decreased by those promised 2%, as you predicted. Therefore, this tax reform is a major disappointment, especially the redistribution paid by the Slovenian economy. I conclude with this and, as you have seen, Mr President, I have not taken advantage of all the time, but I wanted to have the same right as the others before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. First, in response to the Minister or Secretary of State. I know that the Law on corporate income tax will enter into force on 1.1.2007, normally. Full effects will be achieved in 2008 when the accounts are made. However, in 2007 the burden will be so much higher than I read it, from 228 billion to 246 billion. If they wanted to relieve themselves in this year, they could introduce different advances to the payment of this tax because companies, companies, have to pay the advances. And I would also like to say that, even in 2008, under the draft budget, the overall burden on businesses will continue to be 2 billion higher than it was on the basis of the estimated implementation in 2006. By saying that the envisaged rates and solutions in the law will already have a full impact on the decommissioning of the economy, it is impossible to believe in this in its entirety. Another time. I have heard a lot of comments, and I have also read the material from which it has been shown that effective rates will increase at the expected fiscal nominal rates for the following years, but not decrease. This has also not been discussed by the government so far and, if this is true, this does not mean that the economy is being burdened. And thirdly, I believe that the correct studies have been read, otherwise not the latest, but not everyone thinks the same. Mr Šircelj was at a consultation organised by the Social Democrats, which said that investment in past years, also accelerated by tax burdens, contributed to higher economic growth. There was no objection to that. And second. I also have, and probably others, because we have received all the amendments proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons propose to reinstate a reduced tax base of 20% of the invested amount into tangible assets, except in personal motor vehicles and other than furniture and office equipment without computer equipment, not to list further, arguing that without these exemptions, investments will be reduced and that this will consequently have poor effects on the increase in production, new employment and so on. I will not read the half-page of the text given by the Chamber of Commerce in explanation, which the Government certainly has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is very difficult for me to hear a statement from one of the previous discussers saying that we will take over the euro in Slovenia and that will expose the Slovenian economy to great competition. I just don't get it. I argue, however, that if the euro is good for the Slovenian economy, then at least that Slovenian companies will not deal with the problem of a volatile exchange rate. This has been a constant so far, especially with regard to exporters. There was also talk about the Mumor tax reform. Marble's tax changes resulted in an increase in tax revenues. That's a fact. They probably wanted to correct the deficit in the budget in order to be a country with a balanced budget. However, they did not reduce public expenditure to achieve this objective. In particular, they wanted to increase tax revenues. They did not know the exact consequences of the measures they had taken. My debate will certainly not bring any positive solution to this law that we are discussing, but if I listen to the lectures "ex cathedra" you know, I must say that if I were naive, I almost regret that two years ago the 3rd of October and the political conversion in Slovenia took place. It is a pity that these gentlemen do not continue to rule, then Slovenia would certainly be ultra-developed today, as well as ultra d.o.o., but voters obviously do not trust those "ex cathedra" lecturers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Matthew Lachovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dear Members! The simple question here is whether this law increases or decreases the effective tax rate. We argue with all arguments that it is increasing by 2%, you can nod there because you were sent by the government to do this, but I will be very happy if you argue with the data. We've transferred the data to you, and once again, I'll tell you four reasons why. Investment facilitation is withdrawn or reduced to a narrower research segment and only for research and development, which is only a small part of the equipment. Another time. Depreciation rates are decreasing. Third time. There is a decline in the provision of employment for young doctors of science into the economy, for long-term unemployed. Those who have been registered for 12 months or longer at the Employment Service or are trainees, because up to now, 30% of their gross wages have been used as a relief, are no longer able to do so. Some leasing changes are introduced, and when you count them all together, you can quickly see that the effective actual tax rate, as it was said at home, increases for businesses, but not decreases. These are facts and numbers show that. I'm very sorry if some people don't believe, but I'd be happy if you could back that up with concrete information. Of course, to claim what was said here when we abolish the investment relief, investments do not go down. This would mean that the tax elasticity of investments is virtually zero if I understand correctly. However, it is illogical, even in view of this past development of Slovenia, because we know that citizens and citizens here would understand that a whole bunch of infrastructure facilities that companies have carried out as their projects, if not others, trade is also greatly encouraged by these investment facilities. Of course, we can now discuss whether this is good or bad, but in any case I believe it is good that as much money flow as possible is allowed by the public financial situation, let the companies themselves have it without the State confiscating it. And from this point of view, I think it's a shame that this investment facility is actually being phased out. I do not think it is good that investments will be reduced from this heading, of course, means that this effect will not be immediately. Now there are favourable economic conditions, a kind of government, if we look at the world economy, we see that we are at the top of this economic cycle. In short, everything's fine and fine now. I wonder what will happen when economic growth declines to recession. At that time, the effect will be very simple, as the government will not take the fiscal manoeuvre to lead anti-cyclical policies and encourage increased state spending on investment activity. Investment relief will virtually be no longer or will be severely reduced, and it will then be very apparent what the weakness of this Bajuk reform is, with which, even today, this has proved to be, even coalition Members are not fully satisfied. They warned themselves, one even said figuratively, that was the most interesting thing to me, because there will be no major negative consequences here. So we're minimizing the negative consequences. Then why do we even introduce it if it brings, if it is to minimize the damage it does. Then it's better to leave it the way it is, and cut the tax on paid wages. But here I agree, and I stress once again, because every government would do so, because we all have this written down in our pre-election programmes, all the parties who are here have supported it. That's not an issue. But if Mr Bajuk were himself, he would, for example, have abolished the tax on paid salaries, thus also reducing the progress, but of course he would have maintained a net relationship, because it is a real problem that these net relationships are also falling within companies, net wages; and this will, of course, trigger certain additional pressure from trade unions, by workers who will be eligible. And if you now consider that an effective tax rate is also increasing in companies, of course this is a problem and we have not invented it. If this tax reform were really good, if it were something great, then in the economy they would probably support it, they would say, great; but that's not the case. Today we have heard a number of coalition Members who have been alerting us to weaknesses. I think it is very rare that coalition Members can also be critical in this mandate, but today we have heard some such debates, I will not repeat them or quote them now, because most of them are not here either. But the fact is, they were critical, practically all coalition parties were also alerted to this problem. Therefore, I think it's a shame that somehow the Minister of Finance didn't listen to it, he had better ways, we supported the abolition of the tax on paid wages. Personally, I am convinced that I could limit the level of contributions to a certain ceiling in order to support trade unions, but in this way I would really relieve businesses and not break the net relationship in companies, and so this reform has been carried out in some strange way to break the net wage ratios and the tax burden remains practically the same. As far as corporate income is concerned, the corporate income tax law even increases by 2%, and I do not know what he has achieved. I hope he's at least about clear, but I'm sure and I'm hoping to tell you what's gonna happen in this place right now. Of course, it is very unrealistic if the Minister of Finance publicly presents, already in the case of income, we had this case, three tax rates, and then overnight he fixes this little "strike", 1%, 2% up for the highest grade, for the lowest bit, and we fix the middle class a little bit. This is not a serious tax policy because it does not have calculations either, as they were not properly prepared at the Institute of Economic Research for the Law on the Income of Legal Persons because they were not even required of them. What I hope to predict will happen is that from this initial "draft", this set of measures will be one version and in the end something else will be born to "screw" at income again. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] a scale and change rates. [[...]] The same will happen with the law on the income of legal persons. Again, the exceptions there, we will see, I say. But once again, this is not a serious tax policy, I would expect a serious set of measures that would include first very transparently, in what way and what amounts are being burdened by businesses, and then we could discuss here whether this is in line with that strategy for the development of Slovenia and with those key core documents that this government has also prepared in the strategic world of the government, which, for a year and a half, has not met in the reform committee, from which there is also more than a year no hearing which has been advocated by the Minister for Development, which is also now, I think that on sailing, I do not know, but probably is no longer in the government. In short, if these documents were to come out, it would be much easier to discuss today, we would support it, there would be no problem. So, then here we see some more or less meddling "I am, there" and I'm afraid there's going to be some kind of freak who's not really going to be a tax reform, but there's going to be some sort of redistribution in the end. I'm very sorry, especially I don't understand this logic, as far as investment facilitation is concerned. If it is true that investment incentives do not really matter and do not affect the investment policy of companies, then this is a new contribution to the development of Slovenian economic science. And this will be possible for Minister Bajuk to defend elsewhere. Perhaps then it will not only be a European year, a minister of the year who receives these awards because he happily rents loans abroad and is enthusiastic about foreign bankers, then we will even get the Nobel Prize. Since it will in fact justify that tax policy is not actually an element of development policy, it will also in other countries simply abolish investment incentives and the matter will be resolved, because then the rest will have them if they are unnecessary. That logic doesn't hold up to me. Moreover, the question arises why, then, keep the investment relief for R & D if indeed tax elasticity is equal to 0. Then also stop if it does not work, if that is how those studies show. But that study also shows a lot of other things. I don't want to argue with her because they prepared her at the institute, you mentioned your colleague Bolet and perhaps Dr Križanič, on the other hand, they will have better access to documents on me, but above all it seems illogical. If investment relief really doesn't count, if it doesn't matter, then let it all go away, but once again I say it, I don't believe it. It is true, however, that companies make a number of investments because they have tax reliefs. I agree with that, but this is exactly the purpose of tax policy to encourage and direct investment activity of companies. This is the essence of some serious development policy that is not here. I'm very sorry about that. I am even more sorry that due to the so-called reform measure, there is only one form left that I cannot support in the course of the so-called tax reform that I have already said today. I would like to support and I would like to cooperate constructively, but you obviously do not listen to the opposition's proposals, nor to the concerns of the coalition Members, nor to the concerns of the economists, nor to the concerns of the unions, but to take some of your policies. And that's not good for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr Matej Lahovnik was the last on the list of Members to be tabled for discussion. Before I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, allow me to thank my colleague, Vice-President Klavori, for having presided over the meeting this afternoon and to inform you of the minutes of the president's working interview with the heads of the parliamentary groups on the progress of the meeting of the State Assembly in view of the previous complication with regard to the sharing of the remaining time. The President of the National Assembly, together with the vice-presidents and leaders of the parliamentary groups of the day, agreed on three dates, in brief 2004, 2004 and 2005, as regards the sharing of the remaining time to limit this debate to 5 minutes. I agree, however, that my colleague Klavor has allowed time for discussion to come to an end and we are talking about a very important topic. My friend Anderlich, I'm not giving you any procedural information. Comrade Anderlich, it is probably in the interest of all of us to conclude as soon as possible, to do as much today as possible and not to get involved in procedural proposals. If you insist, of course I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u179	This explanation of yours looks like it's something that's perfectly normal, usually, and also allowed. It is something that has been agreed at a meeting, something that does not apply to Members in this National Assembly - it cannot be said because it goes through the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure to the Business Commission or you have to change it here. The Rules of Procedure of Article 71 clearly state that if there is still time left for discussion at a given point within the expected time, it shall be divided between those who wish to discuss it. It is clear, however, that it is limited if the debaters are no longer to spend the first debater who gets the word on it all the time. This is quite clear, and this article is a sacred matter, and I ask you, all those who have accepted this agreement, I did not know about it, I apologize in this respect, but as a member of the Rules of Procedure you should not take. And here you are, whoever was an ideologist or the creative initiator of this solution, you made a mistake. As long as no one speaks to the word that they would like to discuss within the available time, this explanation may also be the right one. Otherwise, at the previous point, Mr Pavliha divided it into three minutes and was divided all the time. I'd just have him here for as long as there is left. But if they don't take advantage of it, it's just one circle anyway, and it's over and the point ends first. You do not have this right, and I object and protest, because this agreement on this working arrangement, even more so, you did it on a working agreement, not on a college basis, but on other relevant bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u180	Dear colleague Anderlich, thank you for your explanation. You are probably also aware of Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the Presidents shall be given an explanation during the meeting of the Rules of Procedure. Vice-President Klavora has explained the Rules of Procedure and I personally agree with it. And we'll continue the session. A government representative has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for your opinions, views and recommendations on the corporate tax law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance will examine and identify comments and proposals. Allow me just a few more comments on the debate that has taken place. I believe that there is also a very large number of professional dilemmas, tax reliefs, that tax reliefs are not, after all, discussed in various international organisations, such as the OECD and other organisations. Various analyses, studies and so on are being carried out and these studies give certain results, as set out in the recommendations. This also means that the Ministry of Finance, or the government, decided on the decision it made, certainly not on its own initiative, but on the basis of a profession which can also be different and acceptable as relevant. With regard to effective rates and effective rates of taxation, I would also like to draw attention to certain problems in comparison. A particularly effective rate is the actual relationship between the tax base and the tax paid. And if an effective rate is calculated in advance and the tax base is changed on the one hand and the tax paid on the other, there are changes in the effective rate from the title itself, the ratios are different; and it is also difficult to compare the effective rate in the future from this point of view. Certainly, and it is some other information which certainly gives this from a professional point of view, whether the burden on the economy is increasing or not, it is certainly a share of the tax on the company's income. And when we talk about the share of corporate income tax, the indicators certainly show that this share is declining and that it will continue to decrease by 2008, so this also means that companies will pay less tax, and if they pay less tax, it actually results in these financial effects, which the government has also submitted. From this point of view, I can say here that taxation is also lower for businesses, and it also depends on how the tax base is laid down. If I once again draw attention to this tax base, where companies can already benefit from certain reservations, where tax losses can benefit at the same time as tax profits, when they are able to exclude from income and thus the tax base of the contested claim and when, for example, double taxation of different ratings, double taxation, that is to say, a reduction in the tax base and consequently less tax liability. Last but not least, the government has actually paved the way with this bill, including with the whole tax reform, the path it is going on, which is essentially a tax reduction. Reduction of taxes on income, reduction of taxes on wages paid, reduction of taxes on corporate income tax. However, whatever we value these categories, I can certainly say in my name that it is indeed true, and this is also recorded in these documents. Once again, I thank you for your views and opinions. We will examine all these opinions and views and identify ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u182	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.20 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - the first draft of the tax procedure. We've got two hours and 48 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members and Members with a first-signed Member, Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u183	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The basic objectives or starting points of the proposal for a new tax procedure law are: to increase transparency of the tax procedure and to make taxpayers more legal, to simplify tax procedures for both taxpayers on the one hand and for the tax authority, thereby reducing the administrative burden and consequently the financial burden and at the same time to stimulate the taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations voluntarily. In addition, one of the fundamental objectives is to ensure the conduct of fundamental rights of taxable persons, and the law clearly sets out principles or rules of the tax procedure, such as the principle of legality in tax matters, the principle of material truth, the principle of proportionality and other principles. A novelty that means ensuring legal certainty, or a novelty in the field of ensuring the legal certainty of the debtors, is a new institution; and this is also a so-called binding information that will actually enable taxpayers to obtain information on the tax treatment of the intended business events or on how the tax authority will act in certain procedures or in which direction it will proceed. I would certainly like to stress here the difference between binding information and the so-called right to information. This is not about the right to information; this is actually about a very in-depth opinion of the study on how the tax authority will act in certain matters. The tax procedure law also reduces the administrative burden, i.e. in the field of the fulfilment of a tax obligation where a type of institution is envisaged which allows a taxable person to fulfil his tax obligation even if the tax or tax return has been made too late or if it has not been lodged, or if the data have been incomplete or incorrect. In fact, this facilitates taxpayers to pay their taxes and, after all, to correct their error if it has occurred unintentionally. The new arrangements for the service of decisions, as well as other tax documents, will also contribute to the administrative burden. After this proposal for a law, service in tax matters will normally no longer be carried out through personal service, but by ordinary service, here the proposer actually considers and appeals to taxpayers that most taxpayers will settle their tax liability once they have actually received a notice of what they are due to pay and of what they are due to pay. And only if this tax is not paid within the prescribed time limit will a re-examination of the service by personal service be initiated. As before, however, decisions on the initiation of inspection and on the initiation of enforcement will continue to be served by personal service. After all, such provisions constitute, for the first time, simplification and, on the other hand, a financial burden on both taxpayers and the tax authority. In the area of taxation, the law introduces an important novelty, namely the possibility of write-offs, partial write-offs, deferrals or interest payments. This is the case in exceptional cases, even in the case of the existence of different excusable circumstances in which the taxable person cannot pay the tax on time or in the amount owed. In other words, this will take account of the personal circumstances of the taxable person, particularly the material ones. If this material situation is such that no tax can be settled, the tax authority will in fact allow it to do so by providing a certain guarantee. The proposal for a new law regulates the tax investigation. This is a specific form of the work of the tax authority, which mainly includes the collection of data and information relevant for the taxation of legal and natural persons and for the analysis, processing and storage of such data. On this basis, the applicant considers that the tax inspection will be even more effective. In the context of the tax investigation, the tax authority shall, in the control of taxable persons, establish infringements of the rules on taxation or ensure the implementation of the measures necessary to provide mutual assistance to the authorities of the Communities of the Member States of the European Union and also to third countries, in particular where double taxation agreements are concluded. The proposal for a law also contains simplifications regarding the application of a tax return on income. Such income shall be calculated at the annual level or determined by the tax authority by means of an information calculation issued on the basis of the data transmitted. This data is transmitted mainly by payers of various incomes. The information calculation of the income shall be considered as a tax return if the taxable person does not object to it. After the time limit for the objection has expired, the IT calculation becomes a final decision and thus also an income assessment. In the event that the debtor objects to an information calculation within a 15-day period, he must submit an additional information calculation, which is considered to be his forecast. The taxable person must also make a statement of income if the calculation was not delivered to him by 31 May and he had taxable income during that tax period. In the event that the taxable person objects to an information calculation or lodges an income statement himself, the tax authority shall issue a decision against which an appeal is possible. Such a solution is an important administrative simplification that will actually take place in 2006, as this is regulated by transitional provisions. This also means that the taxpayers will no longer be burdened with the many parts they have to carry out in fulfilling their tax return and that in fact the tax return or payment of the tax will become as automatic as possible, of course with the vast majority of taxpayers. However, if there is any action that is not recorded, an appropriate procedure may, of course, be initiated in accordance with legal certainty. In the area of accounting and payment of corporate income taxes, a specific part of the proposal sets out or regulates the way in which this tax is levied. As a result of procedures or in order to simplify the procedures for the easier administration of the tax, both for taxable persons and for the tax authority, certain institutions are complemented by a proposal which clearly, clearly and unequivocally lay down the rights and obligations of taxable persons and of the tax authority. A substantial simplification is set out in the proposal of the transaction price documentation between related persons, residents, we are talking about so-called transfer prices. However, a substantial change or innovation is also determined as regards the application of a benefit in the case of taxes on the transfer of assets, the exchange of capital shares, mergers and divisions where the tax authority’s authorisation will no longer be necessary, but benefits can be obtained on the basis of a notification to the tax authority. This is actually about implementing or implementing a directive on the transformation of companies. Respectable, taking into account the fact that the proposal for a law brings important novelties, simplifications and benefits to taxpayers, as well as to tax authorities. The proposal for a law is so important progress in relation to the existing law and we therefore propose that the National Assembly approve it as a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u184	Thank you, mag. Spread out. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Emissary colleague mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government. In opening, let me say that we will not oppose the adoption of this law in the Liberal Democracy Club, but we will, of course, want to see some changes in the next debate and, above all, the answers to some of the fundamental questions raised by this rather complex law. First of all, we must say that we regret in our own way that the government has decided that in the proposal for a tax procedure law, at least formally in a letter sent by the Government, there is no Mr. Director of the Tax Administration, who is with us and I welcome him very much. I think that, above all, he should answer us further whether the tax procedure law will facilitate the work of the tax administration. Why am I saying that? I say this because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its justification, says that the adoption of a new law stems from the need to amend certain solutions based on the knowledge of the implementation of the current system, the comments of the profession, and in particular from certain new solutions, due to changes in tax, material legislation, in particular the law governing income, and the law governing the corporate income tax. We have already said that we oppose both the Income Act and the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. If, of course, we are told that this law, the Tax Procedure Act, will primarily improve the existing procedure, then, as I said, we will not oppose it. This is particularly interesting, and we want answers to this that you say in the material that you are deriving from Action 5, simplifying the tax procedure, and in the context of economic, social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia; and lists 22 measures, amendments and, of course, we would like to hear whether all these proposals are actually introduced into the law itself. For example, considering the possibility of settlement in the payment of a tax debt or the measurement of a decision at a second stage, simplifying the rate of income. In this regard, if I only touch on the simplification of the rate of income, we welcome the idea of an information calculation. We will look forward to the first informational calculations, and I believe that many Slovenians and Slovenes will be happy to do so. However, we hope that this will be done immediately after the 2005 account, where a few hundred thousand Slovenians and Slovenk have not yet obtained a final decision, however, has been implemented. The government then says, both within the framework of reforms and in the law itself, that the purpose of the law is to achieve simplification and modernisation of the current tax procedure by means of a proposal. However, colleagues and colleagues, government representatives, when I read this, are, of course, followed by 423 articles of the law. I counted 423, but it could be 425, so I might have an old version. No, but you can take a look. Why am I saying that? I say this because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of economic reforms, says the impact assessment, "we appreciate that the proposed changes to the tax procedure law will not have significant adverse effects on the state budget and that the cost of taxpayers and the tax authority will be reduced as a result of simplifying tax procedures". This is a three-month-old document in the framework of economic reforms. However, when I read the law, it surprises me, an assessment of the financial implications for the state budget: "with the proposal of the law, there will be no direct financial implications for the state budget". In short, for a few years, you have been studying the tax procedure for two years, saying that you have done a more simplified tax procedure when you should show how much, financially speaking, you have saved by a more simplified tax procedure, and the government says, "there will be no direct financial implications for the state budget", you say, but there will be no need to provide additional funds. I don't know, I don't know, if Mr Simič were here, I would have tried to write here at least that you hope, given what I'm reading in the budget, that you'll get the money for the necessary information base you probably need in order to keep tax procedures and everything you're doing properly informed. And another important consequence of this law, it says here in the context of economic reforms that this will reduce the costs of taxpayers. No, point 5 Financial impact assessment and other public funds. Other public funds are municipalities, ZPIZ, Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, and there are other, in particular, indirect and direct users. It would be expected to reduce the costs of taxpayers. Here you also say: "There will be no direct financial consequences with the bill," so there will be no savings. So, I would like the government representatives to explain in particular, in the discussion below, whether all 22 measures identified under Action 5 are a simplification of the tax procedure included in the law? And what will be the direct, financially valued savings on changing and re-imposing the Tax Procedure Act two months before the end of the year? If you tell me what the savings will be, I will also be happy to see an appropriate reduction in the state budget, by which you will prove that you really think with these estimated savings. Now this is not in this tax procedure law, and I fear that this is simply, in saying, a new text of the existing tax procedure law in the 425 articles, that probably all the sub-laws, all the details that are usually then shown by practice or in-depth review, are not yet in writing, and that this tax procedure law will also be referred to as a law that has not yet sufficiently simplified the tax procedure. We understand the government's efforts have been made. If you confirm it with an assessment of the financial savings, we will not oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u186	Thank you for the introduction. My fellow Member, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting in the late evening. Social Democrats mainly accept proposed legal solutions regarding the obligations and rights of taxpayers in tax procedures. We believe that it is in these solutions that it is possible to find the most well-founded ideas and solutions that go towards the realization of one of the main reform objectives, namely the reduction of tax administration on both the part of the taxpayers and the tax administration, and the provision of the relevant rights of taxpayers in tax procedures. In this context, we particularly welcome the establishment of the principle of binding information from the tax authority, which gives the taxpayers particular legal certainty and, in particular, in delicate and complex business transactions, allows for proper tax treatment. We welcome tax communication by electronic means and by electronic means, welcome the simplifications in proposing documentation relating to transfer prices between taxpayers, welcome the correctness with regard to the stressed conduct of the tax authority both in burden and in favour of the taxpayer and in this context, in particular the conduct of the principle of 'and deep contra fiscus', this is called 'you will doubt the budget and in favour of the taxpayer', which has been over and over and over again used in tax practice in the opposite direction. We welcome the informational calculation of income, which can make it easier for many taxpayers to meet their tax returns, we also welcome the possibility of self-declaring and correcting their tax returns and what else could be good in this bill. The tax procedure is more than material tax rules consisting of a series of details to be understood and applied correctly. And in this respect, we acknowledge that within a given period we have paid more attention to material tax rules, especially the Income Act and the Law on the Income of Legal Persons than the Law on the Tax Procedure. The tax advisers with whom we worked have also acknowledged that this law will only be examined in detail. I therefore make a few suggestions and comments for once, perhaps even smaller ones, and this does not mean that they would not be given in the second reading in the future. However, regardless of the comments and proposals we will make, the proposal for a law is acceptable to us. The question is only whether it was really necessary to introduce a new law with 425 articles, or whether the law is entirely re-invested and written in order to make tax reform easier to justify and cover that in the package it is a matter of amending and supplementing tax laws that have relatively limited tax objectives, in particular the objective of the reform package is no longer to reduce income for taxpayers - businessmen, but perhaps for two to three thousand of the best paid people in Slovenia. Although I have said that we have not examined in detail the proposed solutions, on the basis of the warnings we have received so far, let us draw attention to three suggestions or questions to be considered. Firstly, in the case of a relative and absolute limitation period, we welcome the proposal that, in the event that an absolute limitation period is due, when 10 years have passed, no tax may be charged to the debtor, even if the proceedings have lasted longer before the courts, the actual delay cannot go to the detriment of the taxable person. That's what we welcome. However, some questions are raised as to whether, in the relevant article of the Act - i.e. Article 128 - is sufficiently precise, but it does not apply the reverse, so that, if it requires the fulfilment of the obligation by the tax authority after the expiry of the ten-year period, this obligation for the taxable person ceases irrespective of whether, after the expiry of that period, the taxable person has been convicted in court. Second. In highlighting the principle of proportionate cost-sharing in relation to the performance of the tax authority, in the case of only a partially successful process, it might be more reasonable to recognise to the taxpayers all their costs than the tax-recognised expenditure, if they were not already explicitly reimbursed, since in many cases, in particular, small undertakings would not be able to prepare themselves effectively to argue their views by all means compared to the tax authority as a state repressive authority, which has different objective and material possibilities. Third. In addition to all of the above, we propose the introduction of the so-called Institute of Tax Court or Arbitration, the wider expert council, which could also include all interested and give guidance and principle solutions to the composition of both state, financial and public officials in case of double legal solutions, which would be brought up-to-date by the developed tax legislation or the modern way in which Slovenian taxpayers operate. This would link theory and practice, taxpayers and administration, to the tax profession, which could benefit both tax administrations and taxpayers from fulfilling their tax obligations. In the first reading, we will support the proposal in the Social Democrats' Group of Members and in the second, we will propose some amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u188	Thank you. Member Cyril Testen will present the views of the Nova Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Member, Member of Parliament and Members. The new tax procedure law is more transparent, clearer, simplifies the tax procedure, reduces the number of forms and eliminates unnecessary administration. Here the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance has taken a step forward in bringing tax legislation closer to taxpayers. The proposed tax procedure law also increases legal certainty for taxpayers. It is known that the law now in force is imprecise that tax procedures for some individuals are too demanding and represent a lot of administrative work, so we support these changes in New Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the new law because it highlights electronic communication between the tax office and the taxpayer and introduces a pre-fulfilled tax forecast, which in this area allows for considerable rationalisation. Thus, the debtors will no longer have to fill out demanding forms, but will only be examined and confirmed. In New Slovenia we support such reliefs for citizens. The law also offers some advantages, since under the new law, taxpayers will be able to pay taxes in multiple instalments. The government with this taxpayer allows the tax burden to be mitigated. The essential simplification and savings also constitute for taxpayers a deletion of the provision that operators engaged must provide the tax authority with data relating to income exempt. Thus, there will be no unnecessary administrations and we will save both time and money. In addition to simplification, the law also confers more rights on taxpayers, as the deadlines for the payment of income from 15 to 30 days are being extended, the period of payment of the tax withdrawal is being extended and new possibilities are being introduced to correct the accounts and tax forecasts following the expiry of the statutory deadline. In Novi Slovenija we support a law that provides simplifications for taxpayers, which allows them greater legal certainty and reduces unnecessary administration. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a tax procedure law and we will vote in favour of a decision on appropriateness for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, with your colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, who you are still insisting on! At a time of joy and high expectations at the time of entry into the European Union, the so-called tax reform, or the last phase of tax reform, was carried out. The area of taxes was one of the last which we were able to bring into line with the European acquis at the last moment before the entry into the European Union itself. Without amending tax rules, we could not be involved in the operation of the common global European market. Lack of time and lack of listening to the opinions and experience of the professional public and the economy and the great need to increase revenue in the state treasury have affected the fact that we have received tax rules with which we have a lot of problems in everyday practice. For a long time, there has been a general awareness that a thorough tax reform is needed in Slovenia. An integral part of this much-needed tax reform is also the Tax Procedure Act. Thus, the law we are considering today covers the area of tax collection, the rights and obligations of taxpayers, the rights and obligations of the state and other authorities responsible for tax collection and the areas relating to the protection of data obtained in the tax procedure, mutual assistance and international cooperation in the field of tax collection. And a lot more could be said. In terms of the effectiveness of the functioning of the tax system and its associated costs, both on the part of the debtor and on the part of the State, this law is very important. The new Tax Procedure Act, according to members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, provides for the simplification of tax procedures, the possibility of correcting tax returns or tax returns within six months of the expiry of the deadline for issuing tax returns or tax returns, the possibility of exercising the right to reduce the tax base on the basis of tax exemptions to the issue of a decision-making decision and, last but not least, reducing the duration of inspections in small enterprises and private individuals. According to Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the tax procedure law is a suitable basis for further consideration and will also be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u192	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by colleague Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honors are here! I think my predecessors have listed all the reasons why such a marriage is not against me, and it would only be a waste of your time to the rare ones who persist in this hall today. If I were to list all these matters, as my provosts have already said, the law has 425 articles. And all 425 articles or red thread of the law is to facilitate administrative procedures in tax forecasts. And we support any such facilitation of procedures for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian National Party. However, I do have one question or question to which we would like an answer. In the draft law itself, I have identified one fact with financial implications or financial consequences, namely that the draft law should not have direct financial implications for the budget, so there is no need to provide additional funding in the budget for the implementation of this law. In the second, the law introduces a so-called pre-fulfilled forecast to be sent by the tax authorities to individual taxpayers at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u194	Comrade Zagorac, allow me to ask the Members and Members present to allow my colleague Zagorac, like all other Members, to express their position to the end. Comrade Tanko, colleague of Gantar, please. Proceed, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u195	Thank you for the warning to those who disturb peace in this Chamber, Mr Vice-President. The answer I would like from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that if the tax authorities, which are part of the state authorities, are actually sending this to the taxpayers home, we know that this additional financial means also represent a pre-fulfillment of the tax forecast, it represents certain financial consequences already, given that we are looking at computer programmes alone. That is why I believe this claim that the financial implications for the budget for the implementation of this law will not have, are slightly exaggerated and would certainly like to hear an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr Franz Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u197	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I will not repeat all that has been said on this subject, either, because our party's parliamentary group will support the law. However, I would point out some things that were not explicitly highlighted. Indeed, the tax legislation so far has in a sense been extremely difficult, so that many taxpayers did not understand it well, and this was one of the reasons why many complaints were. This change coming now is supposed to increase tax discipline and simplify procedures. The proposal ensures greater transparency, unity and prudence. The bill simplifies the tax procedure and removes a number of forms from 11 to 4. A longer time limit for complaints is also proposed. It is important for businesses to extend the deadline for payment of the tax evasion. In short, the proposed law has so many positive solutions that it has to be said that it is good, well prepared and we will support it in this regard. We don't think there's anything else we need to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u198	Thank you. Member Rudi Veršnik has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The existing tax system is fundamentally too complex, it is the result of the interests of different lobbying, it allows for too many exceptions and has thus become opaque and also poorly operational. The fact that this is true is this year's finding by the tax administration that more than half of the wrong tax forecasts for 2005 have been submitted. There has been a need to root out change and the biggest changes are recorded in the tax procedure law. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group have always advocated simplification of tax procedures and transparent legislation. In short, for as little administration as possible and in particular for the tax administration not to be a bureaucratic, inaccessible or even elevated service that raises the fear and trembling of the taxpayers, but to become an equal partner to the taxpayers. We are committed to becoming a tax administration and a taxpayer of a partner who both are aware of their responsibilities and cooperate constructively. How this cooperation will take place in the future is enshrined in the proposal for a law on the tax procedure, which is before us today at first reading. The law is divided into eight chapters starting with general provisions, continuing with the principles of the tax procedure, participants in the procedure, informing taxpayers about the tax, data protection, information and documentation, giving data to the tax collection authority and chapters of the tax liability. The law is very extensive and some solutions are abandoned in marriage and some are added. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly point out some key changes that will confirm my previous statements. For 15 days, the period of appeal against the decision of the tax inspection procedure shall be extended. The amount less than €10 is not to be charged, as administrative costs are certainly higher in such a case. The natural persons liable to pay the tax shall be allowed to pay their obligations in three instalments in order not to endanger their own existence and the survival of the family. The law provides for the possibility of repairing the account even after the time limit laid down in the law, and provides for the possibility of self-declaration of the tax liability. In order to secure a tax debt, the debtor may require the registration of a lien in real estate, which is significantly cheaper than other types of insurance. An inspection decision has been previously issued indicating the start of a review which may commence after eight days of the service of the decision. Henceforth, entities engaged in an activity will not be required to provide data to the tax authority during the tax procedure, relating to that income which is exempt from income, since such an obligation is a cost to the taxpayer. The deadline for payment of the tax withdrawal is also extended and the withdrawal should be paid within seven days, which means a contribution to increased liquidity. One important novelty in the tax procedure law is the advance fulfillment of the forecast made by the tax authority, the so-called IT calculation. However, the taxable person is only obliged to lodge an objection to the document received within a specified period. The bill places a strong emphasis on modern electronic communication between the debtors and the tax administration, as all the possibilities for electronic data exchange are given, which will save us both time and time in today's and modern technology. Your Honor! I am convinced that those who are operationally linked to communication with the tax administration will agree that tax procedures are simplifying and leading towards a partnership between the taxpayer and the tax administration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a tax procedure introduces changes, simplifies procedures, follows modern trends in administration and therefore meets all our expectations. That is why we will continue to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-03-SDZ4-Izredna-21.ana.u200	Thank you, too. As was said today at the opening of the meeting, we will conclude the work today at 20.00 hours, i.e. before the transition to a general debate between Members and Members. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly and the item. Proposal for a Tax Procedure Act, 3rd item, to be continued tomorrow as the first item. Have a good night and good night!
