ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-23-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to ask for some peace. May I inform you that I request your attention? [[...]] I inform you that, with a view to preparing a particular material, in particular the legislative and legal service, on the scheduled agenda for an extraordinary meeting or the continuation of this meeting, the continuation or start of this meeting will be at 5 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-23-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue our 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly. First of all, I inform you that a group of citizens, the first-signed Winner of the Jelinčič Trimeniti, has tabled an amended initiative to call for a previous legislative referendum, supported by more than 1,000 signatures from citizens and citizens. In the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, the referendum initiative is constitutionally controversial, I propose that, in accordance with the interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly discusses and votes on the proposal for a constitutional review of the initiative in the Constitutional Court. Please allow the Health Committee to meet at 17.15 a.m. in room 212 to consider the proposal for a request and to prepare a report for the National Assembly. This concludes the session, which will be resumed at 6 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-23-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u3	Dear Members, since the Committee has not yet prepared a report, I ask you to understand and we will continue the meeting at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-23-SDZ4-Izredna-15.ana.u4	I apologize again, I am embarrassed, but the committee has not yet finished the debate, so we still cannot continue the meeting. We will notify you to the parliamentary groups when we continue. It is anticipated that the parliamentary groups will be informed 1O minutes before the continuation.
