ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members. Good morning! I begin with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members, Roberto Battelli, only Bevk from 12 noon onwards, Zvonko Černač until 13:00, mag. Janez Drobnič, Anton Kokalj by 12 noon, Milan Petek, Aloise Posedel, Maria Possonec, Villa Rezman from 14:00 on, Dr. Mitja Slavinec from 12:00 on, Davorin Terčon, Flower Zalokar Orazem and Victory Jelinčič Trimenite. We're moving to nine. Period of the day - First of all, the proposal for a law on spatial planning, EPA 1171-IV. We have four hours and 25 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr Paulet Gantar requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the word to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, and this will probably be the Minister himself, Mr Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u2	Good morning! Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament. Allow me to briefly list again in the introduction the reasons which led us in the Government to draft a new law on spatial planning. ZUreP-1, which entered into force in early 2003, has not actually fully recovered. For the law has established a transitional period of several years, which provides for a gradual transition to new spatial acts. Despite the stated objectives, they have shown certain systemic and practical shortcomings, particularly in the area of spatial planning, soon after the implementation of the current - I will call the law ZUREP-1. The procedure is too vague, and this leads to the fragmentation of both state and municipal planning. The municipalities, which have already begun the preparation of new spatial acts in the previous year and also this year, have in fact encountered a number of problems which reflect the fact that none of the municipalities has yet adopted their basic spatial acts, as set out in the current ZUREP. The first and greatest problem of existing legislation is the uncoordinated procedures for the preparation of spatial acts with environmental protection and conservation regulations, as they require a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact of spatial acts. The ZUreP-1 does not take these procedures into account, since only after its implementation has it transposed the implementation of Directive 2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment of the effects of certain programmes and plans on the environment, among which are the most important spatial acts. The result of the uncoordinated procedures is that the preparation process of the spatial act and the comprehensive environmental impact assessment process take place after two tracks, without sufficient linkage, which causes the procedures to return to the initial phase several times, and the individual actions are also repeated in fact and not only visually. Another reason for amending the current or drafting of the new law is also the fragmentation of the content of individual spatial acts, the unclear relations between them, and also the irrationality and legal inadequacy of the process of their preparation and adoption. So far, pre-prepared spatial acts are too abstract by content. At the strategic level, the content of the spatial acts is extremely difficult and extensive, and, on the other hand, it is clear at the implementation level what interventions to space are even permissible on a given land. And, as it is said, the content of individual spatial acts doubles several times. The procedure for the preparation and adoption of spatial acts is also too long in cases that do not require an environmental assessment, especially because individual drafters of these acts have been left behind, if I may say so, to themselves when they have obtained data or guidelines and also the final opinions of the space regulators. The applicable law on the competence of operators in the preparation of spatial acts at all levels and the obligation to prepare their professional bases, which form the basis for decisions on space, are not sufficiently clearly defined. Their professional backgrounds and their spatial data are generally incomplete, and spatial document makers are often not available in time. And what is the result? Poor or at the border of the law proposed and adopted spatial solutions - and the result is also a number of constitutional disputes. How do we deal with the proposed spatial planning law that I just described? Firstly, the process of a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact of spatial acts in this law is specifically regulated by including it in the preparation of spatial plans as a solution to "sui generis". In doing so, we fully take over the solutions covered by the European Environmental Protection Act and rationalise them wherever possible. In the light of the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, this means, for example, that the content of the appropriateness of the environmental report is checked only once in the process, or that the drafter of the spatial act is left to autonomy to decide for himself whether to send the environmental report to the Ministry of the Environment for a preliminary review. The revision of the environmental report is no longer prescribed. The law provides for a solution for the Ministry of Environment and Space to assume its coordinating role as the coordinator of the environmental report, as well as the full burden on the indications of the environmental adequacy of spatial acts at all levels. The content problems of the ZUreP I have mentioned in the proposal for the Spatial Planning Act are also addressed by directing spatial planning towards the integrity of solutions and also the uniformity of spatial acts. For example, at national level, spatial planning in the framework of spatial acts under the ZUreP-1 has led to the conduct of state-level planning procedures for each spatial arrangement separately. And that meant a large number of long-term procedures. The new law foresees that, within the framework of the State Spatial Plans, several spatial arrangements of State importance can be planned in a specific area, while ensuring their comprehensive treatment and mutual coordination and public treatment within the framework of a single procedure. At municipal level, the new law provides for a single mandatory spatial act, called the municipal spatial plan. A single document will be prepared and adopted, which will at the same time be a strategic and implementing spatial act and will also serve as a basis for the preparation of projects to obtain a building permit. Detailed spatial plans are optional. In short, the municipality can fully arrange its premises in one act and this act is called the municipal spatial plan. If the municipality already has clear projects at the first time of the adoption of the municipal spatial plan, then it can be in the municipality’s own spatial plan. The definition of spatial acts of municipalities at the implementation level - with the new law we also want to achieve the introduction of a new mandatory content of the spatial plan, this is an urban plan. This is a traditional content known by the vast majority of Slovenia's comparable countries, and not least in the past we have had this instrument, the urban plan already. With the urban planning obtained at the open competition, we will plan for proton development, as well as comprehensive reconstruction. The aim is to have modern, coherent spatial documents across Slovenia, with European law, that will be accurate and clear on what can and cannot be built. It is not irrelevant to mention at least one important event in the future, with what accommodation or space we will be looking for the establishment of the provinces in 2008. We want the congregations to be motivated to plan their space in a comprehensive manner and thus plan their long-term development. Because a clear spatial plan gives the investor the necessary security. Only comprehensive planning means breaking too often, even now the current practice, when urbanism follows ownership and when an official can discreetly decide what and where to build. A new spatial plan is being introduced at the Mediterranean level, a regional spatial plan to be prepared by the municipalities for the implementation of regional development programmes. It is those spatial arrangements for which the European Union allocates resources from its resources, especially cohesion and some structural ones, resulting from the regional development programme. This cooperation has already been necessary and has happened, and we are adding an operational instrument through this law, a plan that will be drawn up to provide such details that building permits for development programmes and projects can be issued on their basis; and we want to allow the European funds to be drawn up more quickly. This regional spatial plan will replace the so-called regional spatial development designs, which were designed as a strategic spatial act of the State and the municipalities, which also did not prevent the direct implementation of development projects. Prior to the establishment of the provinces, cooperation between the municipalities is possible on a voluntary basis. It is true, however, that in the future the municipalities will be even more motivated by the mechanisms of operation of the European funds. One important element of law change is the reduction of procedures. The spatial preparation of spatial assets at all levels is reduced by the new law. How? In particular, that the drafters of these acts will no longer, if I may say so, be left to themselves, but that the Ministry responsible for space will be the coordinator of these procedures and will thus assume a great responsibility for the success of the spatial planning reform. The proposed law also regulates more clearly and more specifically than the law in force, the complicated procedure for coordinating spatial acts with the guidelines of spatial regulators, namely different ministries, public authorities and public service providers. The status of the guidelines is clearly established. These are requirements and conditions that must be based on the applicable rules and must be made subject to specific spatial arrangements and must by no means be the basis for a generally changing opinion by public officials. We therefore stress the shortening of deadlines, even where the deadlines relate to the guidelines and opinions of the space regulators and their consistent compliance. The great novelty of the law is this red thread of the law, which is the principle that the failure of individual participants to comply with the deadlines in the procedure constitutes the assumption that those who did not comply with the deadlines agree with the solutions proposed. This is a new, completely diametric new view of the new process, as it is said to give a great deal of responsibility to the responsible coordinators of this process, in which case the ministry responsible for space. The law excludes the veto of the individual ministry on the proposal of the municipal spatial plan. As long as the municipal plan proposal is not in line with the guidelines of the ministries, including the results of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, the Government may decide otherwise, but the Minister is forced to make it a difficult battle in the Government within the prescribed time frame and then cut it down to 75 days, which means, of course, a very short time when all the acts are reviewed, it must therefore be clarified whether the plan approves or proposes a decision by the Government. If the Ministry is silent, it means the plan is confirmed. The proposal for the Spatial Planning Act also introduces new titles for spatial acts. We've noticed some comments about why the new titles. The new titles are uniform for spatial acts at all levels and also illustrate their content. In view of the fact that all spatial acts are spatial plans where their graphic representation is essential, this is therefore reflected in their name. Therefore, at the end of the name of each spatial act, the word is a spatial plan. The first part of the name illustrates the level of spatial planning, whether national, municipal or regional spatial plan. The middle part of the name is the similarity of solutions in a specific spatial plan, strategic or detailed. Such a designation of spatial acts is not least, but it is not crucial, even comparable to the names of spatial plans in other European countries. The bill also provides for a newly regulated area of equipment in the building areas of the municipal contribution, and this material has so far been left largely under the law. Since this is an area which interferes with the rights and obligations of individuals and municipalities, the legal matter is complemented by clear definitions of key concepts and instruments. The public contribution is defined as a dedicated source of financing for the construction of municipal infrastructure and thus becomes an important source of resources that we must also provide for the successful use of European funds for environmental projects. The proposal for a law is also similarly defined by the Treaty on [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . between the municipality and the investor. On the one hand, the law shortens and nationalises all procedures to a minimum, which is actually at the border of European standards of environmental protection and protection of cultural heritage. However, the apparatus at national level is forced under this law to react and act in a way that is not acceptable. All assumptions are established in the event of the failure of state institutions to respond, the State agrees with municipal proposals. This also puts in place a large organisational and substantive provision that we have taken over by all the government departments. In the debate, we will also answer some of the questions that will arise and also present the content of the sub-legislative rules that we have already drawn up in the draft phase and that we now have together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the delegations: I invite Mr Rezman to the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A nice welcome to the representatives of the proposer and everyone else! Let me introduce the satisfaction of the DeSUS Group that this relatively difficult proposal for a law appeared in our debate and that this general debate, which is likely to prove necessary, has also been made possible. We are pleased to see these proposals for changes or a new law because it was really needed. This was the subject of theoretical reflection on these needs, as well as all of the perplexed practices that have been tried by everyone from the state level to planning in municipal buildings and to those who were the contractors of the commissioned works by the municipalities. We are confident that we can express our appreciation for the extensive work done, that this work has been professionally correct, that there have been sufficient opportunities to communicate with those interested in adopting such a law, and that some comments have also been taken into account, some proposals that have also resulted in different versions, up to this conclusion that we now have before us. The basic philosophy was presented in the minister's words, including the system of this law, so that the rest of us probably don't have to touch it. It is better if you might point out some aspects and segments that we think are worth exposing. If the proposaler's ambition was to identify the weaknesses that have made it difficult to plan spatial development and, at the same time, difficulties in planning development at all, then we can say that, at least we have seen in this document some solutions that address or improve certain provisions and leave some unnecessary things that we can also see in practice that are unnecessary. If the proposaler's ambition was to make this legislation more clear in order to provide greater legal certainty to those who are entities in this planning, such as landowners, or those who are potential investors, project promoters, then we can say that they have succeeded in this systematic or spatial act-setting hierarchy. I hope that this will mean greater clarity about who is responsible for what and who should not be satisfied with individual decisions at different levels, and we will even complain about where we can look for solutions to some of the problems that we have now known in practice, but there was no way to resolve this problem quickly, properly and qualitatively. I am also convinced that the document is well-connected with other legislation, because self-sustainment is, of course, a modest part of development planning, in particular the Law on Nature Conservation, the Law on Environmental Protection, on Water. Last but not least, I think it is right to remind ourselves that our administrative political arrangements in the country are one of the problems in planning developments which, of course, this law cannot eliminate, but it has taken account of this flaw. I hope that this will be taken into account sufficiently when other laws are put in place for adoption. Although the change in spatial legislation is welcome, there were many problems, even though it was, then you will remember a few years ago to announce and adopt a law with a large pump to regulate those things that were already problematic, and this has not been the case, as some of us were alerting at the time. So, even though we wanted to, it must be said that often changing spatial legislation is not good. This is not good for the sake of this, because some of us have barely gotten used to the new terms from two good years ago. Some have not yet succeeded, we are now introducing a new terminology and it will be easier for those who have not been involved in spatial legislation so far, and they will not have to mix some concepts. But it's not good, not only because of this, but it's worse to change quickly because of this because they're running away through some procedures because the taskmasters have accepted some things as things that they've adapted to, and because there's going to be a lot of change and we're probably going to have to face new problems. These problems are certainly less than the expected benefits the new legislation is expected to bring. The fundamental problem is, at least in our thinking, the problem of finding the right measure between development ambitions and maintaining what is worth preserving. This search for the right measure does not depend solely on the law, the law itself will not make much difference. I am confident from my personal, personal experience that it will contribute greatly to a better solution to this problem, especially if the ministries in all the departments make an effort to change the attitude towards protection and development in those implementing this legislation. For those who are, in fact, second and third in line at ministries and who are able to advise, assist, accelerate or, more or less deliberately, hinder individual development projects. There is likely to be much more to be done in this area. In short, if I put this into some kind of syntagma, there will be a lot to be done about the culture in this area. This culture is probably not adequately developed, so we will always find ourselves planning in the problems that interest will weigh, not the problem of how we will complement the different interests, so that they can be derived and not be detrimental to the protection of natural and cultural heritage and that processes will be reversible. When it comes to this - and at every intervention in the environment something changes - these interventions must be carefully thought out and must be such that they are also reversible. If I go to a specific case that I think is right to go after, and we hope that it will bring us something, the urban plan is already mentioned today. I am convinced that it is necessary to be relatively conservative in this area. Conservative in that it is necessary to strictly prevent dispersed construction, to strictly restrict personal, private interests after changing the destination of land in completely inadequate places because of the fact that some partial interest can be satisfied with this. To the detriment of the public's interests, first of all to the detriment of the interests of local communities, which are then always put before the fact that this land also needs to be managed by the public, to bring all the municipal infrastructure there and also the problems there. There's probably enough space where the urbanized real estates are already. Moreover, one that can be filled and thus filled could not only be economical with what has already been invested, it could also raise the standard of quality of life for the people who live in a certain reality. Let me conclude that I think that, with many other comments that will certainly come into play in the process of adopting this law, it will be necessary to stress that it is necessary to respect private property, but private property should not be so strict as to prevent or overly restrict public interest, which today is very common. Many of the good projects were either prolonged or even completely put on the side that might not be allowed because of strict, rigid understanding of private property. The DeSUS Group will therefore support, express its conviction that the law is suitable for further consideration and in later procedures we will also make contributions to improvements in more specific matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The SDS position will be presented by Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Space is becoming a factor that we are increasingly aware of and appreciate as it becomes aware that it is not boundless, so it is necessary to plan the interventions carefully. In doing so, it is necessary to respect and also take into account local specificities; in other words, it is necessary to lay down clear rules and conditions for interventions to the premises. In this area, too, it is true that we are a country on transition and that we are extremely strong at the normative work and that we are not beyond our control. Probably the result are extremely long and complicated procedures for obtaining spatial acts by municipalities, which are not even necessary at the final stage, of course, in narration, respect and cost a lot of money and pay more than 40 environmental guardians who collect a lot of money for the required consents, which are, of course, legally determined on a number of occasions, their own purpose. In the SDS Group, we agree with those who believe that the current law on the regulation of space, which has entered into force only recently, is a good year, 2003. However, soon after its implementation, it was shown that certain arrangements in this law, especially those relating to spatial planning, are not fully understood or, I might say, to prepare spatial acts at all levels, of course also to their content, their relationship and their preparation procedures are not fully understood or, I would say, to the expectation in this area that the individual prescribed solutions are unclear and, in part, even impossible to implement and sometimes organisationally questionable. I'd say they're a lot of people. For legislation must provide such a legal framework that, subject to secured requirements, will allow for the greatest possible dynamics of the premises, and that systemic and practical solutions in the law in force are sometimes impossible. In practice, however, the consequences of inappropriate solutions are reflected in a large number of new interventions into space and even at the pressure of capital disappear overnight. On the other hand, there are enormous problems in trying to obtain information in a particular area, whether an intervention is possible in such an area or not. And practice has shown that the current law on the regulation of space in certain places is often incomplete, cities are hollow as cheese and, in addition to major problems on the one hand, makes it possible for investors to choose their own will because the solutions in this law are substantively flawed, and what are also at all levels from which it is not clear what kind of interventions in the space are even possible and acceptable; and that it requires imprudent, irrational and long-term procedures for the preparation of these acts, which are also inconsistent with the rules themselves, in particular in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation; that it lays down a series of professional bases for these spatial acts, which are intended to provide quality solutions, and many times require a lot of time for their preparation and cost; and that this current legislation has incomplete data in the space operators. The consequences are as we know them; and that the vague competence of the operators of space regulation in the preparation of spatial acts at all levels and the obligation to prepare their professional bases, which are the basis for the adoption of solutions. The municipalities are obliged to prepare spatial acts by mid-term next year, dealing with major problems not only of a substantive nature but mostly of an operational nature. However, the content of such acts has significant shortcomings at the implementing level. It should be recognised that this situation is also due to the lack of records, but not to the up-to-date cadastrals of individual areas. Example: The correct position of any cable or pipe shall be determined by the operators only when they break the electrical or telephone cable or any cable system or destroy the sewer pipe. It is therefore of paramount importance that the proposer of this law has taken into account that the basis for the planning of new constructions in the territory of the State or the municipality is knowledge of the existing state of the space, it is important to know about existing buildings, land, buildings, then information about various agricultural, water, forestry and other land in the territory of the State or in the territory of the municipality and the arrangements on those land. It also seems to us that it is important that such a representation of the state of space prepared by the Ministry is responsible for regulating the premises, together with the municipalities. It does not have the nature of the legal act, but it is an expert tool for the public authority, and in particular for the municipalities, which will make it easier and faster to prepare their spatial acts. A summary of the situation is intended to be a summary of the actual and legal situation in the territory of the State or individual municipality, with the Ministry responsible for regulating the premises actually receiving the information from the spatial information system established by the Ministry. Thus, a demonstration of the state of space is the starting point of spatial planning. However, the spatial information system will include all the spatial data necessary for the preparation of spatial acts, for the control of their content and also their legality, for the monitoring of their implementation, as well as the information needed by potential investors, which, by means of a spatial information system, would be familiar with the status of the land on which they intend to build, as well as any restrictions and construction conditions. This seems extremely important to us. An irregular state in the area of spatial planning or space management should in fact be put to an end. That's what we all expect. Therefore, the expectations that accompany this Spatial Planning Act are extremely high. We are aware that this law will not solve the whole problem and that the building law has logically been supplemented. In the SDS, we support the proposaler's position, I quote, "that the basic objective of the proposed law is to clearly regulate the system of spatial acts of the State and the municipality and the relationship between them and, in this context, also to define their content, the process of their adoption and, in this context, the process of fully assessing their impact on the environment, and that the fundamental principle taken into account by the applicant in the drafting of the law, the principle of legal clarity and the related principle of legal certainty and predictability and the principle of confidence in law. Space acts are government acts by which the competent authorities of the State and the municipalities determine and decide on the way in which property rights are enjoyed in individual parcels." End of statement. In doing so, the applicant should take into account a set of basic principles or guidelines, such as the principles of sustainable spatial development, the public principle, that of public scrutiny, the principle of directing spatial development of settlements, the principle of predominance of public benefit, which must also take into account private interests, the principle of preserving certain identifiable features of a given space, that I do not even speak of the principles of professionalism, which is also conditional. Spatial planning under the new law introduces an intermediate level in addition to the state and municipal levels, which is provincial. Whether it is necessary or not to announce the introduction of the provinces is a matter of discussion and it is not that important. The main question is whether the new law, with all the supplements that are still needed, will be able to solve all the problems and vices of the current regime. Just renaming the documents will not be enough to get a state strategic spatial plan and a state spatial plan instead of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, the spatial order of Slovenia and the state location plan will not be enough. And that instead of the spatial development strategy of the municipality, the spatial order of the municipality, the municipal location plan, the municipal strategic spatial plan, the municipal spatial plan and the municipal detailed spatial plan will not be enough. In our Group of Members, we support the preparation of new legislation in this area, and this in its entirety. The law under consideration is a basic, strategic document. Ambitions are great, also expectations, content additions are possible and desirable. The basic expectations and requirements of the SDS Group are that the procedure for obtaining documentation for the establishment of the facility should be reduced and simplified to the lowest possible limit. Everything that happens in between cannot and cannot be the problem of an investor or possibly to the least extent possible. This should also be the aim of the proposer, so we will support the proposed content in the SDS, while at the same time we expect to make concrete expectations more concrete in the Construction Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The LDS position will be presented by Dr. Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, co-workers and co-workers of the Ministry. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The fact that we have proposed a first hearing, of course, in itself supports the fact that, in the LDS Group, we consider this law to be of exceptional importance and that this law creates some fundamental issues and problems of space regulation. It is therefore appropriate to discuss these general and principled, as well as more concrete, in the form of a first reading. The Government itself, or the Minister of Environment and Space, had for a long time announced an amendment to the space regulation legislation, and, if I recall correctly, at the earliest stage of its operation, the Minister announced certain necessary amendments to the Space Regulation Act, which was adopted, I believe, in 2003 or 2002. Later, after adoption, certain semi-working versions of this new legislation were rounded up, they were strongly discussed between different professional circles and so on, they were withdrawn and finally we received a new one today, i.e. the proposal for a spatial planning law. The law with the proposals contained in it, in our opinion, and especially in my opinion, if I may say so, are of a kind of surprise, because the proposaler has not prepared a new comprehensive Law on the regulation of space, nor changes, let's say that there are graduate changes and obvious corrections to some of the most obvious shortcomings of the current Law on the regulation of space, but he has decided on an intermediate path, which is radical at the same time, and so would be said to be diplomatic; and in my opinion, it is, frankly, also the worst. From the comprehensive area of space regulation, which includes a small number of listings, I hope that I will not be too academic, including planning and planning at strategic and implementation levels, covering land operations such as comassations, equipping building plots, landscaping, prohibitions of plots, all land operations, administrative dimension, permits covered primarily by the PGI, the financial dimension that we do not actually have, we have the announced Real Estate Act, but we have a contribution to the use of building land for compensation and then the spatial information system and control and control. All of this and maybe some of it could be worked out. Of all of these, he drew planning and equipping of buildings that were not substantially changed, and the spatial information system and tried to arrange them in the attached law, the other segments leave where they are; in the limited and disabled Law on the regulation of space 1 and, of course, in the PGI - in the Law on the Construction of Buildings and what is small here and there in the field legislation. The proposal also suggests that the other areas that I have already mentioned will be regulated by individual laws, which is legislation in the field of law regulation, which is as uniform as possible. If we take the Law on the Planning of Space and the Law on the Construction of Objects together, it will break into individual laws and then what a paradox. In the introduction, he indicates that after he has broken all this matter into several laws, he will then reassemble and make the Space Code. We have a spatial code of direct good, a lot of problems, a lot of solutions that need to be fixed. But why break it all down and then reassemble it into a matter that will or will not play? In the area of space management, it's just that it's here. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Whether someone accepts it or not is absolutely necessary because the space is something like this because we cannot erase spatial arrangements, the building as we delete it, I don't know, some chalk from the table, etc. [[..]] That's just not true. What we need today is, of course, the close monitoring of this ZureP. To correct his obvious shortcomings. I definitely know that some would have to be fixed, but then, of course, it might be possible to accept some more comprehensive changes in one way or another, this has not happened. In the introduction to this bill, the applicant shall also provide an analysis of the situation in the spatial regulation system and a few lapidar short assessments of the spatial state. Unfortunately, these assessments are not based on empirical analyses, although they exist and also suggest that I can say so, without offense - a view that I would define as an official planner's view at national level. First of all, the ZUREP has not yet entered into force in all dimensions, so it is not possible to assess all the consequences, some of them already. Like the ones [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The information is serious, but half of it is not regulated by this law. Planners, mayors at municipal levels, although I also allow differing positions from fellow Member, Mayor Rezman, have, according to my information, sufficient radical changes in legislation that put everything on their heads again and again before they do as well as the whole mechanism and the entire administrative system change. We would like some peace and time to arrange their space according to requirements, expectations, etc. The analysis of the situation in the room is nicely said naive. The MOP has done better. The idea that the problem of dispersion is a problem of spatial planning is unrealistic, not true, of course it also has its share of spatial planning, but as history has shown, we will see that significantly more other mechanisms would accelerate the compactness of the building, the closed walls and the self-prohibition of dispersion in the planning will not lead anywhere. We've had these bans for the last 30 years. And where did we come from? The more we banned, the more scattered we were. Building policy, land policy, the property tax function is precisely what, not in collecting money, could bring more than a change in spatial planning in the long run. And very important, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, future provinces. My personal assessment is, I probably share it with many of you, that after we changed the Constitution near the provinces, we have never been this close to establishing the provinces. There are already drafts of regional legislation between us at the informal level, four laws, if I am not mistaken, we are discussing them, we are still unhappy with many, we will talk and negotiate and so on and we will act and it can happen, it is real that Slovenia will finally get the provinces and also the provincial legislation. And if that is true, the adoption of this law is a complete nonsense. If the landscapes and I believe they will, they will bring the biggest change in the reallocation of the area of space regulation; right here and possibly some environmental areas. If that's not the case, then the provinces are unnecessary. And now we're going to be adopting a law that we're going to have to re-write to justify the existence of the provinces and their functions. In this law, as well as in the wider regional plan, it is simply not a Mediterranean plan. And it is clear that everything will have to be changed here, it is clear that the area of the jurisdiction of the State will be significantly reduced by the transition to the provinces and that the province will take over the larger and central part of the regulation of the premises, with what the municipality has, and this is not in it. If we adopt this law within the next two months, it can happen that in a few months we will have to change both this law and the disabled ZUREP and other things, to the PGI and the like, of course, to adapt it to the provinces. That's ridiculous, that's not serious. I don't know where the government law enforcement services are or anything else to alert the Ministry. After all, there are two ministers in the same government and from the same party that are preparing this legislation, and they have brought all this confusion to our agenda. And now, if we're talking a little bit about principles. The principles are always good, and even in this law these principles are correct, but I would say so first. The fundamental principle of the Spatial Planning Act must be the principle of rational and sustainable behaviour and management with limited space. And that must be a fundamental principle. The principle, such as legal clarity, legal certainty, of course, and must be self-evident principles of each legislation and of any national, local or formerly regional [[Incomprehensible.]] in social spatial and other processes. [[...]] What has disturbed me at this principle level is that they have probably subverted efficiency and reduced the role of citizens, nationals, citizens, the public in the spatial planning process. To exclude some instruments that have barely begun to work and retain only one instrument, this is a public decomposition of documents at all levels. In 1972, if you allow this personal trip, I graduated with the task of participating in spatial planning. Since then, we have always found that there are many weaknesses and shortcomings in the public divide. First of all, people don't get to know each other in the way of presenting material. People act like atomized individuals. The arguments are contradictory in this context. One says green is nice, the other says yellow is nice and black is ugly and the planners at the end, look at the people, they don't know what's good, we know best instead of them, what's good and so on. This is why an instrument of the spatial conference was introduced. I have to say, I didn't follow him very well. I'm afraid that this spatial conference, as usual, has been born or into another bureaucratic representation of these matters, that it has not had this function and has not yet developed this function, as it is elsewhere in northern Italy, for example, from where this idea has been transmitted. It would be good to know what the analyses, experience from these spatial conferences and what can be done and changed to make some other more developed forms of participation, participation of stakeholders, NGOs, I do not know who else exists in this planning process, which is also a process of legitimising this planning. No, delete. And without explanation why and how. But there is the best instrument any bureaucrat planner has, and this is a public decomposition. From the public divisiveness of every planner, including every politician, and in this is a charm, it can also come as a winner to citizens and citizens, but of course there can be protests, barricades, not to mention any other things, forms, I would say, in citing, illegal collective action, as they would say. Bad. Public interest - very good law, like other laws, says that urbanism is a place in the public domain, that public interest must prevail, is not a test of public interest, not even of that small experiment, which may have been announced in the ZUREP, even through spatial conferences. And that, in my opinion, is bad, too little. I must say that my impression, knowing the different views and concepts of planning that happened to us, is, I would say, a kind of approach to regulating space and planning primarily through the eyes of artistic, historical and conservational professions and classical architecture. That all other professions and views such as landscape architects, geography, sociologists, economists and so on, these professions are excluded and that these concepts here are not to be traced. The law, as it is said, also re-orders new designations. Some have already pointed out that there is no need to hope that the new designation of the old phenomenon will be better or changed by another name. Not at all, but well, names can be one or the other, at least they bother me. It bothers me, of course, firstly, that this law reintroduces a document called the State Strategic Spatial Plan or the Strategic Spatial Plan of the State and, at the same time, the Spatial Plan of the State. As you know, we had such a spatial plan prior to the adoption of the new ZUREP, then the new Law on Spatial Planning abolished this document and implemented the strategy for spatial development of Slovenia, which this National Assembly adopted, not this one, but the previous one, if I am not mistaken, also. As a rule, countries do not have State spatial plans. They have some small, very small, pocket countries. Luxembourg probably has. Where it overlaps locally with regional and regional national, there is usually a state spatial plan, at the same time a regional and local plan. He's probably got San Marino and so on. Countries that are small but not pockety, such as Slovenia, do not normally have such plans. And also in the review of the documentation, which is small by surface or by number of inhabitants, you have seen that, in fact, none of these countries that are in the comparative review have a national spatial plan in this sense, as it is written here. And I'm really curious about what this state spatial plan will then have to do with the space when we have the landscapes; and I believe, as you said, that we will have them. Moreover, through these documents and certain dictions, powers are transferred from the congregation to the country; contrary to the spirit of this Constitution and the spirit of local self-government, that is, the legislation on local self-government, where regulating the area is the original jurisdiction of the municipalities. In the preparation of the State Spatial Documents of the State Spatial Plan, the municipalities, as you may have noticed, are the only parties to the process, in the 30 days to make proposals, the state responds to these proposals, and there is no definition of what happens if the positions are on the other side and so on. State spatial plans also set up building plots and the state plans, literally planning in the municipality area, and so far the country has planned in the municipality area. With the location plan of the motorway it definitely planned in the area of the municipalities, but in the defined area defined by the location plan. The ZUreP has also allowed several of these matters to be merged into such a plan. Now no one can guarantee you what the state will put into this plan and has planned in the area of municipalities. So the legislation governing the adoption and the role of the State in the adoption of municipal spatial plans of all kinds, I will not now talk about each individual, shows that at least twice, if not three times, the municipality must send its documents to the State. First the draft sends to the Ministry, this sends to the other ministries, they have to draw up guidelines on the basis of legislation, these guidelines are now considered to be a legal basis, so far the guidelines have been a problem and a solution, because they have always been little, as the English say, 'negotiations' have been a little negotiated with them, now there will be no negotiations on the guidelines. And what happens when the two guidelines are in conflict, I'm very interested. And after this happens when you have to adapt to the municipalities, the proposal goes back to the ILO, the procedure is reopened, 75 days, then 30 days, and the government decides on the acceptability of the plan, and then it can only be accepted by the municipality. And I have to say, I don't know why the congregation should accept it, let the congregation know that the government has accepted its document, and find out that its spatial plan is valid because the government has accepted it. And I must say, I did not expect such a subtle intervention in this matter and was disappointed. What do colleagues, our minister and the Ministry of Environment and Space say? To shorten procedures. There is no guarantee that this law will shorten procedures, some experienced planners have made a simulation of this law, a comparison based on the current law and this law, and have found that procedures may not even be extended, we call them professional consequences. Another time. That, in fact, it will be enabled in some way, because procedures will be shortened to allow flexibility and flexibility in planning. The definition of spatial units, units of regulation, as in this law, may, on the contrary, reduce the flexibility of regulation. It is very serious, and at the same time it must be said that the only good thing that would be in this law is to integrate a comprehensive, strategic environmental impact assessment and environmental impact assessment, particularly in the adoption of these acts. However, it is integrated in a very principled, general and even illegal way. The document itself in the shirt that is attached says that this law has nothing to do with European legislation, that it is an internal law issue, while at the same time regulating an issue that is harmonised at EU level, this is a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and environmental impact assessment, namely by repealing and modifying certain articles of the Environmental Protection Act in the same law in transitional articles. In my opinion, it is rather inappropriate and very inappropriate. We can talk about this. But at the very least, in a way, if I may say so, we are telling the European Union that this law has no effect, but it does. And we are actually abolishing something, in some articles, laws that we claim to be harmonised with the European Union. What, then, about this problem that our planners, especially our entrepreneurs, and the mayors, see? Procrastination problem, problem of lengthy procedures. See if there's a lawn out there somewhere that's a farm land, and if an entrepreneur comes and says, on this lawn that's a farm land, I want to have a building in six months, my factory, it can't happen. It can't happen. This can't happen in any civilized country. If there is an unwalled building plot, which is intended for spatial documents for similar buildings, then this must happen earlier than within six months. That's the problem. If you are at the same time fighting the scattering of space, you will be simultaneously and at the same time tarts, how long the procedures are, you need to know that spatial planning in this segment is reliablely restrictive. We know the regulated countries where they took the carousel after 10, 12, 15 years and it hasn't been optimal for today. It's space-making. If you want to have land to build on, it's too late, today, you have to edit it three, four, five years ago. Everyone knows that. That's why it's planning, planning. This fact must be taken into account. Today we have more than a lot of space that is open to construction, which could be open to construction if other procedures were possible. And it's a simple matter. Other things that are bad in this marriage are that they have abolished the concept of spatial order. True, the spatial order in ZoreP was not well defined. The spatial order should actually be some kind of grammar of planning. In fact, it has become a substitute for former compartments - if I may say so - and has the nature of the implementing document. If this spatial order were redefined, we would have saved ourselves a lot of speed and space-related decisions. Colleagues and colleagues! There's still a lot to talk about. I do not think that we will be able to support this law in the LDS Group. We think he's conceptually flawed. We think it's coming at the wrong time. We believe that it would be better if the Ministry dedicated itself to helping municipalities to make the documents they need to have and, of course, demand from the municipality of Osilnica on the basis of the ZUreP. I must warn them that the ZureP does not order them to do so. Instead of actually going gradually, you got to the wrong time and with the wrong concept you went to one segment of space regulation. So, planning, building plots. There are no major changes there. Even in the spatial information system, there are no important new developments. That is why I think it would be good not to support this law because we will, even if you accept it in the second and third readings, because you will accept it literally again in full, in a few months or at the latest in eight, nine months. Above all, you will assign additional work to the congregations. This isn't about ideology right now. It is not a matter of political differences between SDS, LDS, DeSUS or anyone. This is simply a matter of more professional and organisational questions. Therefore, I think it would be good for the Minister to recommend that he prepare some of the most important changes of the ZUREP as soon as possible, after a rapid or urgent procedure through Parliament, if necessary. And, of course, delay the adoption of this law for a later period and also allow the professions to say about this way of organisation, I would say, regulating the space, as I described at the beginning of the break into individual segments, then merging back. With the warning that amendments are not even possible under this concept, of course the LDS Club will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Professor Gantar. I now invite Mr Weber, on behalf of the Social Democrats, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! Social Democrats believe that a different approach is needed to address the problem of space regulation and spatial planning. I believe that as a necessary measure it is necessary to adopt an intervention law to remedy some of the biggest shortcomings that have emerged in practice and, above all, create difficulties for municipalities to adopt spatial acts in a timely manner. The additional reason for the adoption of the intervention law is also the time pressure for the preparation of acts, which, of course, are a prerequisite for the successful withdrawal of funds from cohesion and structural funds for certain specific projects, which are, of course, announced on an extremely high scale in Slovenia. So on the one hand, we are planning very large-scale projects, and on the other, it is amending legislation that will, of course, prevent the implementation of these projects. It would therefore be necessary to adopt an intervention law. Then, in peace, approach the debate on a system-wide environmental law covering the area of space regulation, construction of buildings and, of course, land regulation, in particular. For this reason, we are currently assessing that the consideration and adoption of the proposed law does not contribute to the resolution of a variety of shortcomings, of course, creating a reverse situation. There is a high likelihood that the law would introduce an additional rule-by-law confusion and raise new issues in particular with regard to the procedures for the adoption of spatial acts. If we only touch on some specific points of view in this law, we can see from the outset that even in the chapter it is a fundamental principle, because it is a matter of some general principles. Then, in the text below, the law does not specify these principles. So there's no criteria, no procedures, no powers. Therefore, there is a great danger of new legal voids and the resulting complications when it comes to understanding individual provisions of the law. However, the reasons for the individual article in the law are extremely lax and also too modest. The Law itself binds with the hands of the congregation. It also imposes certain additional obligations. However, the State does not commit itself with individual deadlines and, by means of vague legal concepts, allows itself in fact a large discretionary right of decision on a case-by-case basis. Restricting municipalities and their competences in the adoption of spatial acts is a red thread of this law. This fact will certainly be felt most by the urban and other larger municipalities, which should actually be carriers of spatial development. According to the text of the bill, the same fate will also come to the future regions when they are established, which the Social Democrats cannot support. We believe that the proposal for a law should also regulate the legal instruments by which municipalities or future provinces are to lead a successful land policy. In addition, a very important question is asked. For this law speaks of directing the spatial development of settlements in a way that prevents the expansion of settlements and that they have the advantage of renovating against new developments. In doing so, of course, we forget the fact that in Slovenia it is still a very big problem of denationalisation, regulation of ownership. Many owners or owners of individual real estate are extremely large, which means that in the future we will have very serious problems if we want to develop our settlements according to the current development needs. Such guidance, if incorporated into the law in such a way, will cause very serious problems and limit the location of enlargement and the creation of the development potential of individual settlements. If we also look at how spatial regulations of state importance are written and, if we are to draw out here, for example, areas of conservation of nature, this law states that spatial arrangements are within the jurisdiction of the State. Here the question is also raised: Is this law even in line with the Environmental Protection Act and the Nature Conservation Act? There, however, are somewhat different powers in nature conservation. In addition, in Slovenia there are already 30% of the territory under Natura 2000 and directly to Brussels or Europe. And if we add to this that there will also be other areas that are not, for example, in Nature, which are subject to conservation of nature, that these areas will become under the jurisdiction of the State, then the municipalities may actually lose somewhere - we can estimate - about 40% or even 50% of the Slovenian territory as an area that can be regulated by their spatial acts. This, I believe, is, of course, unacceptable or is estranged from actually planning the use of space from the actual needs of people who live in this space. If we also look at spatial arrangements of regional importance, they are defined by this law as arrangements that apply to several congregations. However, if we are to write this down in this law, we need to know that some arrangements of regional importance are actually located only in the territory of one congregation. They do not necessarily reach out to more congregations. And if we define spatial arrangements of regional purpose as those that reach out to several municipalities, we will, of course, once again have difficulty drawing on funds, how to define regional programmes, whether there is a specific investment or an object in the area of one municipality. Such an example is certainly, for example, a depot, a fire safety centre also of sports halls also of secondary schools, higher education and the like, facilities for these programs. The real feature of this law is that congregations lose jurisdiction in spatial planning. Moreover, the specific spatial acts of the State which are listed by new names in this Act. And if we look at the national, strategic spatial plan, we find that it sets out the guidelines for planning the settlement and planning the spatial arrangements of local importance in this law. Therefore, the state will already set up a resettlement plan and, of course, also specific spatial acts that the municipality in its territory will have to arrange for each area. How this information will come to light, how this country will be able to impose on the individual congregation, but it is, of course, far from being precisely defined. However, this is, of course, also evidence that this limits the capacity of the municipalities to think about the development of their local communities by not providing for the preparation of the State Strategic Spatial Plan to take into account the material of the spatial regulators. The question therefore arises: Will the Ministry of Environment and Space actually be able to extract from the national programmes all necessary for the spatial important content to be placed in individual local communities? Up to this level, the State strategic plan extends to the use of professional foundations. Even if we look at the report on the impact assessment on the State Strategic Spatial Plan, it is a new concept that has so far been lacking in our spatial legislation. Regrettably, this report does not contain in the work relating to the environmental aspect of the impact of environmental objectives in line with the Environmental Protection Act on economic development, on growth, on competitiveness, on employment and does not take into account the environmental impact on demographic development. In short, if we are already preparing a report on the assessment of the impact of the State Strategic Spatial Plan on the environmental aspect and if I return to the fact that 30% is again in Brussels' jurisdiction and then directly under the authority of the other environmental acts of the country, there is an extremely high risk that individual areas will be lagging behind in economic development due to a lack of respect for the environmental impact of the development and lagging behind in demographic development. This is a key aspect of spatial development. And even if we look at the reception ourselves. Therefore, the National Assembly itself, on a proposal from the Government, adopts the State Strategic Spatial Plan and then, on the basis of the space plan adopted, lays down a timetable for its implementation by region. So, we will probably have a situation in Slovenia when some regions are first in line, some will be later. This is an extremely pressing problem that will cause even greater differences in the development of Slovenia. If one region comes first than the other, of course, this means inevitably a backlog in the development of that region, which will wait for the time to come, or even try to use a game of luck or drawing, which will lead to a drawn-out region that will come first than the other. A very vague concept and, in particular, such a procedure can lead to even greater developmental differences in Slovenia. This is part of the State Strategic Spatial Plan. If we look at the State Spatial Plan as the next State Competence Act, this Act will, as a rule, correspond to the region of the development region in accordance with the text of this Act. And given the accuracy of the presentation of the State Spatial Plan, which is supposed to include all the different content of investors' incentives and of all those interested in interfering with the area throughout the region, it means that someone who does not have their own visions developed at this moment will, in fact, prevent the adoption of the State Spatial Plan throughout the region. This is an extremely dangerous solution, which again limits all others in this region, so that they cannot actually realize their visions, because someone else has not defined this vision well. This also specifically means a derogation from the objective set out in this Act in order to allow the funds for cohesion funds and structural funds to be drawn up as quickly as possible. So that this provision is directly contrary to this objective and, of course, can cause very much damage. The current location plan was limited to a significantly smaller area and, of course, allowed us to make a concrete investment, which is included either in the Cohesion Fund or in the Structural Fund, as soon as possible. Today or tomorrow. Of course, it's not supposed to be like this anymore. And if we take further the fact that the State Spatial Plan, due to the extremely detailed treatment of the premises, will also be the basis for the issuance of the construction permit, it is very questionable why it is still necessary, then, if this State Spatial Plan is already the basis for the issue of the construction permit, to adopt other spatial acts, such as local ones, since you can obtain a building permit at the level of this State Act. But even more so, the law stipulates that the municipality in the area of the State Spatial Plan can implement its rules if the Government so permits. So, in a region in which the congregation is involved, it will be able to approach the implementation of its local, spatial plans if the Government so permits. I think that such solutions are unacceptable and once again point to the fact that we do not really need spatial plans of local importance and that, on the basis of these State Spatial Plans, we are already issuing building permits and we are probably building everything on average, because it will be difficult to define very thoroughly in these large spatial plans an intervention into space in a way that we will either preserve nature or follow all these needs in the development of the local population and, of course, the economy in particular. And, last time the municipalities prepare their spatial acts, the Ministry approves the proposal for a municipal spatial plan. Yes, if the Ministry approves the proposal for a municipal spatial plan, then why send such an act to the municipal council? It is likely that the municipal council or the municipal budget will have a burden because it is required to publish this act in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. And only this cost is passed on to the congregation. This is the only task you have as a municipality to publish this act in the Official Journal. So it is true that it is a whole series of irregular procedures, which are extremely dangerous at the moment when we need a detailed analysis of existing creation, and indeed to find the most urgent solutions that we need in order to be able to run on all calls and, of course, to enable Slovenia to develop as quickly as possible. As a result of all the above mentioned Social Democrats at this stage, when we talk about this general treatment of the law, we find that we cannot support the proposed law. However, we fear that it will also be extremely difficult to correct with the amendments below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Koren has the following word on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! We are also convinced in the New Slovenia Group that today we are discussing or discussing a very important law. In October 2002, he was a mag. At the second reading of the proposal of the Law on the Regulation of Space, Janez Kopač said, inter alia, that the proposal for a law clearly limits the powers in the field of the regulation of space between the State and the municipalities. It introduces a regional level of spatial planning. It shortens the procedure for the adoption of spatial acts. It allows the activation of private capital in relation to land equipment for construction. It introduces a system of spatial data sets in one place for planning and allowing interventions into space and ensures a high level of public participation. Those were the words of Minister Kopač at the time. At the time, expectations were really high. However, these major positive changes have not been made in the four years of the Space Regulation Act. There was nothing from the then assurances of major simplifications, shorter and simpler procedures. The ZUreP has simply not come to life and there have been no positive developments in this area. But he's got a lot of work to do and he's worried about the municipalities and the mayors. Last but not least with location information. In the New Slovenia Group, we hope and wish that this story will not be repeated with the law that we are considering today. For the explanation of this law of this day is very similar to that of four years ago. It is now stated that the basic objective of the proposed law is to clearly regulate the system of spatial acts, states and municipalities and the relationship between them and to define their content and their adoption process in detail in this context. If this is achieved, surely one positive step will be taken. The aim of the new Spatial Planning Act is also to establish a system that will relieve unnecessary content elements of spatial planning and rationalise the preparation of spatial acts. This will enable spatial solutions to be prepared at an appropriate time and within acceptable funding. In New Slovenia, we support such solutions that provide human and environmentally friendly urban development while at the same time allowing faster economic development of the country. The last thing I said to you seemed really important to me. At present, the current and unacceptable modern development-oriented spatial acts of large-scale development and new investments of the economy are unprepared and unacceptable. In particular, in our municipality, quite a few entrepreneurs would like to build new business and production facilities, but old social plans make them impossible and have not yet adopted new municipalities. On the other hand, the removal of the notification institute caused some uncontrolled installation of auxiliary facilities, such as various hubs, sheds and various roofs. This led to a non-aesthetic appearance mainly in cities and suburbs. The location information did not in any way replace the notification of works. And I think we should make a quick move here at the Ministry so those anomalies can stop. The analysis of the Space Regulation Act referred to by the proposer has shown a number of shortcomings that are reflected in inadequate solutions. Thus, as regards the content, the unclear relationship between the individual spatial acts, the opaque procedures, the unclear competences of the spatial regulators and the arrangements for the municipal contribution. At the same time, there is also a time component in which the new law offers significant savings. The proposed law was presented and coordinated with the municipalities and with the professional public. I said he was coordinated. It is certainly clear from the media that it has not been harmonised, which is also understandable on the one hand, because it will be difficult to reach a harmonised proposal. No full consent was reached. I am sure that the proposaler will continue to listen and find solutions that will continue to follow the objective set. At the same time, we have seen that the individual aspects published in the media are quite excluded. While, on the one hand, they point to the terminology inconsistencies, the confusion created by the new proposal of the law is precisely welcomed by others by the simplifications relating to integration and thus to the reduction of procedures. The proposer will certainly listen to good comments that will appear. We must be aware, however, that today's spatial planning procedures in combination with the Environmental Protection Act are a major non-competitive factor for development projects. In New Slovenia, we want to prevent the consequences of the current inappropriate legal solutions that are in practice happening because of the pressure of capital there is a multitude of unplanned interventions into space. On the other hand, investors are leaving because they cannot obtain adequate information as to whether their investment idea is viable from the point of view of intervention into space. The additional reason why the draft law is supported by the New Slovenia Group is that it also introduces the purposefulness of the use of funds collected through a municipal contribution. By analysing the dose of the municipal contribution of Slovenia, the proposed company found that the Slovenian municipalities, through the Institute of Municipal Contribution, charge the cost of building various types of municipal infrastructure. The proposal for a law with a list of municipal infrastructures for which a municipal contribution may be collected shall eliminate this anomaly. At the same time, it also introduces the intention of spending resources collected through a municipal contribution, which has not been practiced so far. In our opinion, a very important chapter in this law is also that of the spatial information system and the presentation of the state of space. The law provides that the Ministry of State and Community Administration in the field of space regulation shall ensure the management and maintenance of the spatial information system. This shall include data on the state of the space and other information relevant for the performance of the tasks of the State and the municipalities in the field of spatial regulation and planning. The display of the state of space presents the data that are the basis for spatial planning. However, it is set up to allow for a uniform approach at all levels of planning. It also facilitates the supervision of the expertise and legality of spatial acts. It contains an overview of existing building, agricultural, forest, water and other land, of the protected, protected and degraded areas and of other areas where a specific legal regime is established under the law. It is also important that state and municipal authorities are obliged to exchange information on the spatial and information system. It is also very important to establish a record of administrative acts issued. It was not long ago that the parties had to deliver to the Authority the acts which the Authority had issued itself. Here I have an example from my former service, for example, when we recorded the apartment building, when we applied for an agreement, we had to submit a building permit, which this body itself issued. In Novi Slovenija we want to finally revive the cadastral municipal infrastructure. We used to call him a cadaver of utility devices. This cadastral has been neglected in recent years. I hope that any change in data in the economic public infrastructure cadastral will be recorded and transmitted to the competent geodetics authority within the prescribed time limit, in order to bring this change to the base. In order to comply with the new spatial legislation, it will certainly be necessary to quickly prepare amendments to the Construction Act and probably also to the ZUREP in certain parts. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed Spatial Planning Act for the above reasons. They supported it at this stage. However, we expect our comments and comments to be taken into account in the next legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc has the last word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Spatial planning is now regulated by the Space Planning Act. In our opinion, the preparation of the new draft law was more than necessary due to the lack of and irregular regulation of the current law. We therefore welcome the proposal for a law on spatial planning, which today is under general discussion at the proposal of one of the parliamentary groups. We expect that this debate on the law will show what concerns exist and whether, in the subsequent stages of the process of adoption and consideration of the law, it is reasonable to amend or supplement the law itself with good solutions. First, it should be pointed out that the law in force did not enter into force until early 2003. Despite the short implementation time, however, many shortcomings of this law have proved to be very weak in the area of spatial planning in many ways. If we recall the adoption of the Law on the Regulation of Space, we can find that, at the time of its preparation and consideration in this National Assembly, the proposer provides a good and systematic regulation of the area, which will provide an appropriate legal framework and at the same time promise simplification of procedures in the area of space regulation and acquisition of necessary spatial acts and permits. This has already been mentioned by some colleagues when presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, practice has shown the opposite. In some cases, it is possible to detect a completely inadequate intervention into the space. In another area, conditions and restrictions are completely exaggerated. This often also leads to a distinction between investors and raises the issue of equality of all investors before the law. The main indications of the applicable law are, in particular, the substantively inadequately defined spatial acts. At all levels, complex procedures and requirements for a whole range of professional bases, which were often intended for themselves, should be made complicable between them. Of course, individuals benefit from such a condition. In particular, those who, due to the legal provisions, are preparing many, although unnecessary, bases and documents and thus have the means to do so. However, the municipal budgets or budgets of individual investors or those who interfere in the space suffer. I think it is important to stress that all certain experts have concerns about the new proposed law, and perhaps or perhaps it is only the reasons that I have mentioned earlier. On the other hand, an inadequate basis, which is a requirement, raises doubts about the profession, which is also not good for the quality of spatial planning. The weaknesses of the applicable law - as set out in the text of the law - appear mainly in three areas, in addition to the content of the spatial acts and the procedure for its adoption, the records of the situation in the space are problematic. It can happen that some regulatory plan has been adopted. And then, before you get a building permit, you find that there's a primary water supply going through that territory in an area and something like that. With regard to the content of spatial acts, I would not go into the individual problems that arise as these are well-founded in the introduction of the proposal of the law under consideration. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, under the current law, the municipalities need to prepare new spatial acts by mid-2007. However, their preparation, as I mentioned earlier, is linked to high costs. For example, the content of the spatial development strategy of municipalities is too extensive. It contains unnecessary content and is, of course, extremely expensive. The municipalities that have acceded to the preparation of spatial acts under the applicable law are likely to be in a worse position than the new law. In other words, they will have acts that will be too extensive in many ways. For them, they will be deducted from substantial financial resources. It is also necessary to have a good overview of the existing situation in order to prepare good spatial acts. Modern information technology can be an important tool for easy analysis and access to data. Adapting the relevant information system to the needs is essential, and we welcome it in the Group of Members. The assessment of the current situation and the identification of the shortcomings was, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, a fundamental basis for the proposal for a new law. The new law gives high expectations. We only hope that the proposals will be made to the fullest extent possible. The proposed law, in our view, is well governed by the procedure for preparing and the content of the preparation of individual spatial acts. It is very important, in particular in terms of drawing European funds from the field of environmental infrastructure, that the applicant prepares appropriate arrangements in the form of regional spatial plans. This is necessary because of the small size of municipalities in some areas of Slovenia, which alone cannot prepare large enough projects that could run for European funding for these areas. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect the proposed law to bring a number of positive changes in spatial planning, and we will therefore also support the proposed law as a suitable basis for further consideration in this National Assembly. At the same time, we expect that, during today's debate, the shortcomings of the law, which will have to be taken into account in the next process of enacting the law, in order to reach a good law and for the citizens concerned, may also be demonstrated. In doing so, we expect that the basic direction of the law will remain the same or even improve. This is to simplify procedures, to resolve issues in one place on the basis of a good information database.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. There's a few already checked out. There's not a few of them. So Mr. Prevc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I could say that the municipality and especially the mayors of the new Law on Spatial Planning were very difficult to expect. It seems to me that today, as this law begins its parliamentary path, its parliamentary procedure is an important day for us. The existing law, which, as we have heard several times before today, was adopted in 2003, has by no means achieved its purpose or what the applicant promised at that time in 2003. It is said that it has not achieved any systemic regulation in this area. Above all, what seems most important to me and what has been promised most often. This is a simplification of the procedures for obtaining the necessary spatial acts and all other permits. In particular, this applicable law sets out spatial acts in a materially weak manner, in fact at all levels. What is even more important is that there are very vaguely defined relationships between them. Finally, these are very complex procedures and requirements for a whole range of professional bases, which are often, as has been the case today. All of this is best suited to the preparers of the necessary bases and documents that the municipalities and individual investors hire. These professional bases and documents are often, as we know, completely unnecessary. It brings good profits to the trainees and, of course, to the municipalities and to individual investors. At first glance, this proposed law, in a substantial part of this flaw, which I have listed, is correcting the shortcomings of the existing law. For quality spatial planning, records of space conditions are also very important. These records include this new proposal for a law. It was also one of the very important shortcomings of the current law. More than once, it has been said that according to the applicable law, the municipalities have to prepare new spatial plans, new spatial acts, by Wednesday 2007. In view of what I see in the bill and in view of what I have also heard from the proposer, I am sure that those municipalities that will be preparing these spatial acts under this new law will be much better off. I am sure that only those - that is to say - will actually get only those professional bases and documents that will not be intended for themselves, as I mentioned earlier. They will, in particular, allow for quality spatial planning. And that's essential to this marriage. It is also important that they spend significantly less financial resources. In short, congregations and many investors - there are many of them. We have a huge role to play, a huge number of initiatives calling for after the adoption of this law as soon as possible. We know we urgently need this law. I do not agree with those who have not convinced me that this law is not suitable for further consideration. I have a feeling that those of you who are familiar with this spatial issue are rejecting this law. I would expect you, Mr Gantar, to participate actively in the finalization of this law with your knowledge in this area, not least with your experiences, and that we will really get to the law as soon as possible, which will address all the shortcomings of the existing law. It's not the last time you've admitted that this marriage isn't good. But we really need a marriage. I will therefore support today that the proposal for a law goes forward and we will be Members of the Slovenian People's Party very actively involved in further procedures, because we really want this Law on Spatial Planning, which is very, very important to be truly good, quality and will allow for quality spatial planning in individual areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Pecanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u18	Good day to all present, and thank you for your word, Mr Vice-President. I would like to say that today I am listening to a debate that gives me the impression that we are talking about two different things. It is as if we are not talking about the same bill and as if one part of people are quite convinced that this law is the solution to spatial planning in our country and the other part of people say that this law has a whole range of shortcomings. Above all, that one intense desire is full of something that was adopted about two years ago, nothing is valid and that it must be fully dispersed and destroyed. I have some experience with the law, which was in force up to or down to the entire area of space, which was in force until 2004, and also because it was changing a little bit earlier. Also with this legislation, which has put us in a very unusual situation in certain parts. I would say to the local communities that it is certainly one of the most drastic and also very harmful for the municipalities, as well as for investors. For those who buy and sell real estate, land in particular is very bad. That's it. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] the location information mentioned by someone in the debate that how this law will solve this problem, which is not at all true, which will only solve the changes of the building law, which do not promise any major improvement because they only systematically separate the location information into two species, which are within themselves in one way or another already already differentiated for the purpose for which the location information is given. Nothing will improve, however, as far as this is concerned, how long will it take for the location information to be done in a quality manner. Without really quality spatial records and bases, location information cannot be made faster than is being done now. The backlogs across Slovenia are very large. No one will prove to me that any congregation other than the one that has provided additional employment for a whole series of people so that location information can be made, worked faster than it has done so far. I think that, for example, this is one of the points that the ministry would have to go to first if it wanted to make major changes. The second thing is, of course, it seems to me that it's a bit pointless to change the entire Space Regulation Act just because it's prepared by a team that doesn't like the current team. I must say that what my colleague Weber has said is that it would be more meaningful to amend the existing law to do what is happening in principle on this bill, namely to combine the strategic documents at the level of the municipality and at the level of the country into a single document, so that we should of course be clear in explaining the law, that what we have actually done is, let's say, not to prepare a strategy for the spatial development of the congregation and the spatial strategy of the congregation and the spatial order of the congregation, but to raise the documents, but to deal with them as one document. We're doing everything. Of course it'll be two documents. However, they are essentially produced in the process of preparing a single document. That's exactly what we got from the Ministry. Here I would like to point out, say, some very unusual things that are written down. For example, it says in the preparation of the individual municipal plan, what is the municipal spatial plan, that the municipality must adopt the spatial plan no later than 24 months after the application of the regulation referred to in Article 38, paragraph 4, of this Act. So, honestly thank you for extending the deadline for preparing a spatial order and strategy or spatial plan, as you would like to say. But after you read what the fourth paragraph of Article 38 says, "The municipal spatial plan sets out the spatial implementation conditions of Article 44 of this Act." What does the definition of time have to do with anything? When is the spatial plan adopted? And that the component of the spatial plan is also a spatial implementation condition that these are spatial implementation conditions. Because when you look at Article 44, of course, what are spatial implementation conditions that are not a separate act but are part of the municipal spatial plan? I must say that this law will have to be, with all the affection, that the ministry and the minister try to make a useful law that will shorten spatial planning procedures that will allow them to be municipalities. I am primarily dealing with the congregations here, because, with all due respect for the Ministry, I would hope to claim that it is humanely fed, so that all of this can be done as it has written in this law. I think it is impossible for you to master the whole of Slovenia until the last of the 210 municipalities and that each of these 210 municipalities will be able to look at the internal structure and see where it is actually right and where it is all wrong. Unless you stick to the principle you have so far, that those congregations that are not political, by their leadership, of course - because I do not think we can say to the population that it is politically inappropriate or appropriate leadership may not be appropriate - you are looking at those congregations with a very large amount of payoff between the fact that you are not at all engaged in others. Here is, of course, the question that this law will be about the same - I will say - inconsistently implemented, as has been the case with ZUREP-1. Because I hope that you will find that the instructions you will give on the basis of this law later on the basis of this law, and later on on on the basis of amendments to the building law, will probably also be unclear that the alleged black constructions in Slovenia will be disrupted, which may eventually be declared legal after the trial. Since your instructions, your rules are such that they cannot be implemented or cannot be understood in such a way that it is perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me, in the sense of further discussion, to turn to some of the views that we have heard together with our colleagues so far. Thanks for everything. I have to say, those who are conceptual in nature, when you're deciding on a number of concepts, it's legitimate. If someone says the concept is wrong, they've practically said a lot. I would suggest we try this way and unite at one point. In these two years, Mrs. Pecanova, I've been meaning to tell you something else. So, in these two years, since I have been in this situation, it has in fact been a consensual assessment that the current Law on Space Management has failed to achieve those objectives, the objectives set by the legislator in 2003 - if I am not mistaken. And to clear up immediately what Mrs Pecanov said before, I, as a Member, supported this law at that time. I believed then, I was then a member of the government coalition. We believed in good intentions and solutions, although there were many debates. And they were obvious back then. Mr. Rezman used to say that the path to hell was pressed with good conclusions. It was said that the procedures would be reduced, simplified and so on. But unfortunately they didn't. And I think it is only in this House that we should find together that the current ZUreP is simply so inoptimal that we can no longer complement it, correct it with some urgent solutions. To be honest, what Mr Weber has said, I have not last introduced the law to your Group of Members. When we tried to come last year with the participation of municipalities, investors, experts and everyone else to propose some of the most urgent changes to the current ZUREP, we found that it would not work. Unfortunately, the current ZUREP is conceptually wrong in some solutions. That's what turned out. He's missing. I wanted to come with some urgent changes that would allow the ZUREP to survive, but it can't. ZUreP has some conceptual, wrong moves. That's why we came up with this solution that Dr. Gantar well defined. There's something about it, I'd say, gradual changes, and there was something radical. They're one and the other. I believe in both of them, both of them, and they've been well studied. Last but not least, I recently attended a meeting where two-thirds of Slovenian municipalities were adopted by law with a great deal of affection. He was especially commended by the city’s congregations, to which I was very surprised. And when I listen to this debate, one does have the impression that we are living in two worlds. But the world is only one and the law in force does not allow us to solve some of its shortcomings only with some intervention solutions. That's why we come with the ones in front of us. I firmly believe that we are not bringing new confusion. The law does not bring new confusion, but it does bring solutions that are more procedurally clear. In terms of timing, it's shorter. Of course, a shorter procedure does not necessarily mean that there will be no agreement. It's a big responsibility. Even those who will then bear only the burden of the Ministry. Here I share my concern with Mrs Pecanovo about the staffing power of the Ministry. However, I am sure that I will succeed with the Government when the law is in place, I hope that it will successfully go through the parliamentary procedure, despite the negative 1% on the annual level, that I will get some exceptions here. For the implementation of this law at our Directorate for Space will require some additional expertise. I'm sure I'll get them. So the change in this law is not in any way linked to the minister's attitude that the previous marriage is bad because it was prepared by another minister. On the contrary. I did everything in my power to try to improve, and to tell you the truth, it didn't work out. And I can tell you exactly why it didn't work out. Like when we got some materials. Some congregations have been able to draw up a strategy. And what did we find? That it's an extremely extensive document. He's almost got 40 tickets. Can you imagine 40 tickets for a medium-sized Slovenian municipality? And this solution is so inconvenient that its usefulness is really questionable. And of course, many municipalities have also questioned the merits of such a procedure, as well as the content needed in this case for the municipal strategy. And we have other cases. I'd like to be specific about location information. Here I think we can also work together to find that the aim of the proposaler was good years ago when he introduced it. But what happened? The location information brought a lot. Indeed, this has brought confusion to the Slovenian planning area, which is related to this sensitive issue. Especially with regard to the jurisdiction of the congregations. Above all, this confusion has moved into the area of construction or the construction of simple objects. And a lot of citizens, when they come to me sometimes, bring the location information in the belief that they have a building permit. And a man can't even convince them that it's not a building permit. Since the location information as a collection of data on restrictions in space and the conditions for its use are still laid down, it has not been possible to abolish fully with this law, which I think is understandable. However, it has been accurately preserved in the transitional provisions. In that segment that's bound to building regulations. By the way, this change of law is kind of ready. This will not be about any radical change, but about the collection of key changes in this segment, which also follows some of the solutions in this law. I hope that the government will confirm it in January and that it is coming to the National Assembly. Where, then, where the location information relates to traffic and even in the Construction Law, we will be able to resolve this issue to the end, otherwise Mrs Pečanova says that in the wrong way, but the profession and representatives of the municipalities have explicitly praised the thinking we have on the solution, they have explicitly commended us, we will discuss it. However, where it relates to real estate under other regulations, we replace it in this law with an instrument that we call a certificate of the intended use of land. I think that's a good solution. And I didn't hear the criticism of that solution we proposed. And the process itself, it's important, it's also a kind administration. The issue of a certificate of land use will be reduced because the content will be reduced and it will be faster first, and if we link little to administrative fees, it will be significantly cheaper for citizens. Finally, this is an important element. This is about location information. You've opened up a lot of other topics, too. First of all, I would say that I believe in the concept of this law, we have been preparing it for a long time, we have been rechasing it at different levels, including professional, political, especially with both associations of the municipalities. I would also reject the view that we are taking autonomy or that this law is written against the municipalities and their powers; on the contrary, I assure you that the opposite, and I also assure you that in practice it will prove to be the other way around. That is also why I think that municipalities and mayors and municipal administrations trust the legislator that this will really happen. Of the other topics you opened, for example, it was said that Slovenian municipalities covered only a good 30% of their area with their planning. She's not going to hold that statement. Of course, if it is part of an area of the congregation in a particular network called Natura 2000, the congregation will have to take that into account when planning its space. But it is still the congregation that plans and plans in its space. This is a positive approach, a proactive approach. But if you see in every matter just a limitation and a take of authority, that's your point of view. Or, say, a view of the provinces. Indeed, at the stage of the adoption of the law in the Government, in the government procedure, it was the Government's Law Service that warned us about this issue and we also had a long debate on this topic. The following starting point prevailed: no matter what it means to go with a whole new law in a few months, I am sure it will not. But will it not also be the greatest contribution for the provinces to enable the municipalities to produce quality municipal space acts? This is a gesture that will only benefit the provinces, and yet we have a principled approach that if the provinces get part of the jurisdiction and they will probably get - they will get - state powers. So here I see no contradiction and this possible both ways; to allow quality planning at the municipal level by means of this change of law, but we are already preparing a space for some of the state powers to descend to the provinces. This also applies to other areas, not only this, and we have consciously decided to go with this element, which also touches on the future competences of the landscapes in the area of space. In the beginning, I have run out of time to predict what I have also promised publicly and when this law is dealt with in the home working body, Members and Members will already be familiar with the three regulations and three rules resulting from this law and have already been written. This is also a new quality in the adoption of the law, to tell you in advance how you will arrange something in the act of law so that you will not use the "by pass" as it is called that in some regulation or by-law act you would write things a little differently than perhaps the purpose of the legislator in the adoption of the law itself. We are therefore preparing a law on the regulation of buildings, we are also preparing a law on architectural and engineering activities. Finally, the Inspection Services Act is also important in some segments, and all these laws will somehow build on the current law. It was also said that the law in force could act in a disstimulating manner in the case of municipalities in the preparation of projects relating to European cohesion funds. If we were to go, although today it is not intended to go from article to article, but if we looked at Article 95, second paragraph in this case, then we would see that we were particularly specific on this issue, and such interpretation is absolutely wrong, meaning that someone did not read the law completely, but what is possible. Allow me to read: "These spatial arrangements of state importance under this law are also considered to be spatial arrangements related to the drawing up of European cohesion policy funds and the common agricultural policy during the new financial perspective 2007-2013." Why is this provision important? Because in this case, it will allow the municipality to make use of another instrument and there can be very rapid changes to the spatial act if it is a project related to European funds. However, it is also very important to consider Article 4 of this Article, which has been attended by a number of discussions under the government procedure. We have not frozen the existing spatial acts and we allow one exception here, and this means a significant increase in the dynamics and flexibility of the municipalities in this case if there is any serious investment intention and this means that this can happen within this period. This Article, this transitional provision makes this way possible, of course, it is not about the fact that capital would want to build a new hall on the agricultural land of Category I. Absolutely not. This does not allow this procedure. However, it allows some other procedures to simply, I would say quality capital, which brings jobs and is linked to European cohesion funds, would not wait and perhaps go to other neighbouring countries. There are several other solutions in the law that you have otherwise interpreted differently, but my position is therefore as follows. We will be in the context of receiving today's basic support, open under the national assembly procedure, that perhaps in some articles, if we find any procedural or shortcomings in the interrelationships between individual articles and solutions, we will improve this solution in an amendment form. And there is something else to say; we also have before us an organogram of the applicable law and a new law. And when we went to count weeks and months, we have a different grade than what we've heard here to even extend the procedure. If that were to happen, it means that as a minister, I was heading in the wrong direction. Our assessment is that we will significantly shorten the timelines, not extend them. We also have an organogram prepared and can - not here today, but when we go from article to article on this matter very specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you, Minister. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Podobnik with the team, honourable Members, honourable Members! On the table is an extremely important legal matter that regulates important human goods, or if you want value, it's space. It is important to realize that this value is not only given to this generation that is currently living in this space, in a narrower or wider way, but that we need to take care of this value by exploiting it, at least as we do, even the generations that are coming after us. So, in a way, this space is only for a little while on the dishes. And it's precisely to see space as a value that I want to make some introductions first. Social change in Slovenia over the last decade and a half, primarily due to changes in the political system and property systems, territorial rounding and simultaneous globalisation processes, including institutional approximation of EU standards, are necessarily reflected in the spatial and environmental values of the population. The formation of these values is subject to an ever-increasing amount of information, behaviour and experience whose origin is no longer limited by the geographical boundaries of the individual's local and national environment. The individual's life experience, particularly spatial and environmental, is increasingly defining the supranational environment and increasing accessibility to this environment. One of the main pillars of social change during the period of globalisation is that these changes are extremely complex and urgently faster than they are able to adapt and respond to the country by changing the spatial order. Physical space is becoming increasingly rare and increasingly expensive, both public and private, regardless of the increase in virtual practices, it is said, non-physical spatial practices. This means that the needs and demands of individuals and groups for the use of space are not only increasing, but in particular diversifying, becoming increasingly diverse. A key issue is how conflicting common social or public and individual private values can be brought closer together. In such a way that the use of space and long-term spatial development follow at the same time the needs of the local community, the already-made national objectives, the modern European environmental principles, the nature of nature, in order not to be distorted more differentiated and the new life-style of the bivanian, working, leisure and similar individuals, of course. We welcome in our parliamentary group, the New Slovenia Group, the fundamental guide in the preparation of this law, namely the rationalisation of work, the rationalisation of financial resources and the reduction of the procedures for the preparation and adoption of spatial acts, of course not at the expense of quality, but also the reduction of the necessary time to realize individual, fully investment intentions. We estimate that the well-covered four sets of spatial planning that the law re-regulations. First of all, it is a system of spatial acts of the State and the municipalities, which will provide better spatial solutions and make the work of the municipalities significantly easier. The second set, these are procedures for the preparation and adoption of spatial acts, including procedures for a comprehensive assessment of their environmental impact, which will be shorter than before - so at least we expect. The third package, the establishment of a spatial information system which will allow municipalities and other operators to access all necessary spatial information quickly and free of charge. And last, fourth set, equipping buildings with appropriate economic public infrastructure. As a matter of fact, in the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the law is appropriate to be allocated to the national working body of the National Assembly, but of course we will actively participate in any improvements to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very well-intentioned, although at first sight little such a statement, is the Minister's statement that they will be supported, that perhaps possible solutions, say, improve in the second reading. There is likely to be some proposals that will need to be taken into account in the second reading. And if I try to be a little malice, I think, but I allow the possibility that I have misheard or understood, even a statement, the law is bad, and we will support it, because in the second reading, we can also improve it on the parent's working body. What we really want is people and people in our country - an effective but environmentally friendly way of planning the use of space. There has been a lot of talk in the past about sustainable development, which, of course, must be taken into account in this planning. The system, which changes by changing every four years or very often, is not a good system and it is probably necessary to put a lot of effort into this law now, so that we will not change it again after a while and find that we had good intentions, which have been "stuck" later - as we now see with location information that is certainly not a building permit. But when we look, as a result, at what things do, of course, it is necessary to insist on a path that ultimately has a result, that it is possible to obtain construction permits very quickly, that this building permit is not too expensive or that the price is sustainable, that the prices of consent are sustainable and that potential investors know exactly what is possible to build and what is not. This is what needs to be done. Of course, it is necessary to ensure the participation of local communities and countries in planning the use of space. The question is, who has the advantage sometimes, but probably for projects within the municipality and planned by the local community, of course the local community is the one that sets the basic conditions and plans, and in this case the state is in some way adapting if it is not already in the process itself, and vice versa; when it comes to state projects, it is impossible to agree that only one local community can interfere with the implementation of this project. Yesterday, we also spoke about the so-called third development axis on the question sent, putting a fast road into the space, a demanding project, which, according to the Minister's assurances, if this law is adopted, allows implementation, that is to say, the start of construction in December 2008. And, if that is not the case, of course, the minister said that something was wrong with him or with planning to adopt this law. I could also understand that, after the 2008 elections, he will resign from the post of Minister of Environment and Space if I am not still a little malice in this case. So, the law is supposed to improve the situation, this is the purpose of the law, and I don't have very serious concerns if we find that it's very difficult to change the old man by making him a complementary bill that would in practice [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] [[...]] [[Yeah, actually, it's not bad. I agree that more should go left, but good. I don't know where that call came from.]] So, the law is also made in this direction to make the realization faster, and you tell the minister that you have a table comparatively, time-consumingly, I would ask if this table can be seen or obtained so that we can compare the effectiveness of the existing and future law ourselves. And there's something else that you're talking about cheaper procedures for. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] replacing location information, of course, we must be aware that you are forecasting appreciation on behalf of municipalities or local communities, but officials are likely to have similar tasks as they have done so far, and it may be necessary to consider reimbursement of costs from the national budget, not from the local budget. [[...]] I am confident that this law will receive support for its proper basis and that it will survive or experience a number of other changes during the second reading. Minister, I'll tell you again, or I'll make sure that I hold you to your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome, distinguished chairman, respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Well, since I myself have been engaged in or closely associated with this matter for several years now, I will speak mainly of the proposed law from the point of view of the congregation. I would like to say that I cannot say that marriage is bad, that it is actually good, but, of course, it would probably not be fair to say that marriage is good or that any marriage is good, which shortens certain procedures. Do you know if an investor shows up today, like I think somewhere in the media has been published, and he says, "I'd be building here!" And if someone today says that by amendment or by this law after 12 months he can build, a building permit will be issued, I think that this building permit is not dependent - much of this law, but mainly on the Construction Act. That is why I would be much more pleased today to discuss here today the Law on Construction of Buildings, which would rationalise the scope of the necessary documentation for the issue of PGD and PZI in order to relieve the huge financial obligations of investors in order to, in fact, reduce this law's timeframe to the stage when the building permit is issued. Look, Your Honor, I don't agree, either, to change the concept of allowable intervention into a space as many times as it has since the beginning of the new congregations. In fact, for the third time now we have been implementing or for the fourth time certain legislation, which certainly has certain consequences, and I will not be discussing today whether this law was good or bad. See if the law was good or bad, after 12 years, if the congregations today ask themselves or find problems that they do not have arranged, how to dispose of the space, then it is a little sad. To have an investor come today to build, and the congregation is not available for available land. Today I wonder whether this is why we are amending or introducing a new law based on the fact that it was adopted poorly in 2000. Why am I saying this? I speak because of the fact that certain municipalities, which have been regulated today, would say very well arranged, the use of space, and this again means a new financial burden for local communities. On the other hand, the operators or manufacturers of spatial documentation are all happy. Look, I totally understand that you have received comments from the society of landscape or landscape architects - they are not the most satisfied. Why aren't they most pleased? The pure logic of the person who read the law, and especially the introduction, sees that few have been put on the sidelines. Is that good or bad? See, the municipal spatial plan in a certain part also contains this part concerning them, but I think it is also up to the congregation - or I would say, it is also responsible to take care of this area too, so that that part - whether we call it a landscape - will be properly preserved. Will this reduce the time involved in this law to obtain a building permit, as I mentioned earlier? Today, we would all be happy to see that the municipalities have adopted spatial plans, because I know they have them, but they have such spatial plans that do not actually allow them certain interventions. And from that point of view, I also see this law as good. It is said that he will simplify matters and that the congregations will be able to arrange their spatial plans. But neither do we fool ourselves from this point of view to shorten procedures if someone is thinking of building an industrial zone or a residential zone in a flood - threatened area. It will be able to build if a flood hazard laboratory allows this if a study is done. But this study is not done within two days, or within a week or a month, it needs time again. So it depends in particular on the local communities in which areas they wish to intervene. However, I would only have some specific concerns about certain articles or comments or scattered construction. The law proposes that, in fact, some of the debaters before me have been but priors against scattered construction, except under certain conditions. You know, today we can ask ourselves what we were doing 10 years ago, 15 years ago, or even a little bit closer to the financial resources we were receiving on the basis of the so-called demography, we were actually investing in the rurals, we were investing in the infrastructure on the part of the municipalities where the construction was dispersed. But now we've done this, we've given these people some normal life, and from these parts, those people who are a young generation will be evicted, because scattered construction is not allowed. I have always had doubts from this point of view, but I know what this means: a much greater burden for local communities on the performance of certain tasks, but we should think about this. There, in Article 51, I think that it is a mistake, instead of a "strategic spatial plan", to actually refer to a municipal spatial plan, that is probably a mistake. Had a question about Article 52. Why 21 days? What led you to think that the ministry or the space regulator should give guidance - I mean, it's not some kind of round number. But what it is, I think that colleague Gantar was discussing who is issuing the decision, and I think this is a decision to approve the municipal spatial plan. I have a question for myself. In the event that the guidelines are harmonised, it is said that the Ministry of Environment and Space confirms this, but in the event that it is not right, the Government shall decide whether or not to act in favour of the municipality. I think a little bit here is questionable, once the ILO second time the government. Now, with regard to the furnishing of building plots, I think this is paragraphs 72, 73, 74. You know, I don't know, and I can't imagine how we're going to implement this requirement in practice, because it's stipulated that it should only be built on equipped building sites. We know what that means, or it can be an exception if it's also built in the construction phase, I'd say, this utility. In fact, the investor will not obtain a valid permit unless a utility permit is obtained for utility equipment, if I may say so. I'm going back to disintegrating. In certain parts where it is possible to build, there is no usable permit for many plumbing, not to talk about roads, etc.. Well, you've included a community contribution to this law. I think that the municipalities will be in a certain path position between the time when we do not have a municipal spatial plan or if I have correctly tracked it, the Ministry or Government should determine the conditions at that time, if I may say so, for the accounting of municipal contributions. I think this area is quite sensitive for local communities, but it's also quite topical. But I also have a question when you mentioned it myself, but I don't know if this is a case in law right now with regard to putting a low-voltage network on a potential zone or a construction plot. If this also applies to other public economic infrastructure, why is it stated only for a low voltage network or the question is about the train station, even if you have already mentioned it, or that we are excused to have the operator return it to us. 95th Article, mentioned earlier by a colleague of Pecan, which I do not think is working together. Thus, 24 months on the basis of the application of the regulation referred to in Article 38 of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you, too. The word has magic. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! When we adopt a law on spatial planning, we are actually adopting a law that is supposed to simplify very consistently the 2002 law on spatial regulation only in matters relating to space, urbanisation. We have witnessed from earlier times, we have had development plans involving all areas of development, from energy, the economy, industry and, of course, spatial and urban planning, but it has always focused only on urbanism and on the purpose of using space. Given that the ministry is also for the environment and space, we must also take care of the environment itself. I have experience from all these times. I must say, at least in the municipality where I was mayor, that before the adoption of ZUREP we have thoroughly processed all the spatial and executed acts and have prepared really thorough professional bases for all the elements that ZUREP then envisaged, so that we were then surprised, otherwise one understands that the law is methodologically very detailed and really broadly defined all the elements that you need to make in order to be able to define at all the final objective that is always ahead of us; the intention, the new purpose of using the space, and this should then be the basis for the implementing acts themselves, which are the basis for obtaining permits to intervene in the space. So that these criticisms, which are to do again this one thing that has already been done in a methodologically new way, is, in our view, an unnecessary cost. We have even adapted and written a project task that would simply bypass this ZUREP1 methodology and do only what is necessary for this ZUREP to comply with the law now in force. And this would somehow reduce the cost of preparing a spatial development strategy and not only the costs, but also the work needed to do so, the cost is the contractor and the work is also in the municipal administration. This methodology and this law might be suitable for the provincial level. And it may be suitable, I am not an expert at state level, for a country level such as Slovenia, but it is not suitable for all the size of municipalities that are in Slovenia. Regrettably, however, the municipalities still operate and act very kindergarten, looking only at their kindergarten, their territory, which is limited in any case, even if we are looking at the largest municipalities by number of inhabitants, by urbanization or by size of the territory. So here is the first dilemma of the law now in force and of this new law, and what about the rounded area, the rounded geographical area, the rounded cultural-historic area. Where's it going? This current law was aimed at these broader areas. The province will be again an administrative area, but a wider area for which it makes sense to do everything from strategy down. So the current concept of the law on spatial planning is closer to this situation, which is currently in Slovenia, and what the municipalities actually want to do, especially to unblock the situation since July 2004, when it is not possible to change the purpose of the use of space. While this level is okay, the law would be acceptable in my opinion if these roofed strategic documents were to be adopted, which somehow direct the right content now, because it must have some foundation, some roof, some roof, some roof, or municipal, or provincial, or a state level that is somehow now focusing on urbanism, architecture, the purpose of space, urbanization. As a matter of fact, I have expected from the beginning a system known from some practices abroad, when then the municipality, I will not say the least, on the basis of such agreed planning or a strategy for the use of space, either alone, without consentors and conditioners at the regional or national level, to decide on such certain rules on the specific integrity and purpose of individual land. By doing so, the congregation can also prevent all speculations that are today, when the process of accepting changes in the purpose of the space comes to an enormous rise and to the market price of land, according to how these lands are intended for construction. Of course, even in the old Yugoslavia, they had a special tax, an asset that somehow neutralized so by changing destination acquired, we can say, a property benefit. But practice in some countries is that the municipality, after the principle of 'take it or leave it', requires that the price of land is the same as it was before the change, and such a price of land is, of course, also the purchase price of land for the newly defined purpose of habitable land in the space. The municipality, a narrower area, a local area, can do so on the basis of an adopted strategy, validated strategies and rules that apply at the deck level. This, then, enables real quick enforcement of the rigidity of individual, rather than wally surfaces, which are possible in strategy and concept as such. In Slovenia, the specificity is that we have a lot of walled surfaces that are not walled and we still want to keep building. Okay, that's already the problem of sanctioning things with other laws, real estate laws, etc. But if this structured approach and roof documents, strategic, inter-ethnic, provincial, of course national, exist, which are binding, then this law is actually appropriate to allow, on the basis of what needs to be conditioned, municipalities can now, even smaller, to say not vilified, but an appropriate harmonised scope of changes, procedures can somehow regulate and decide on spatial planning on this, I would say, the level of urbanisation, the purpose of individual land. Without this umbrella strategy, this should not be possible. Now the law has put all of this into one methodology and into one procedure. Therefore, it was also so complex and extensive and also costly and questionable as to its usefulness at all levels. We know, however, that Ljubljana, their strategic development, spatial, long-term plan is a set of fairly general definitions or, above all, a desire. I read it because I wanted to see how one big city conceived its development, which would then also have an impact on urbanization and all the other activities that were conditional on it. I therefore believe that this approach is okay, but it also has some things that may not be subject to regulation. Above all, the main problem will be once again that certain things - this roof level will not be defined and that the gardening will again be done on a narrower level; now it is even easier than before. The former Minister, Mr Kopač, wanted to specify, methodologically fill out things that were still in force in the 1980s or 1970s, in fact, with all the fines made by law and methodology. Now, in fact, the danger will only be that, without a broader view, it will be possible to plan again. But we know that we now have significantly smaller congregations than we had before, and that we do not yet have provinces. And here, Mr Minister, I think it is a major consideration and also a major danger if we do not now go into the law itself and its specificities. I have also read this part of the articles concerning municipal equipment, and perhaps I would just point out that you should be aware that in both space and municipal equipment in Slovenia there is no ideal situation, that virtually most municipal equipment, utilities still need to be modernised, and that it is not possible then to determine the municipal contribution and utility in a way that there are only new areas ahead of us and that it is only necessary to build on new municipal equipment. The huge utility is, most of the equipment that needs to be modernised is actually built on a new one, and so it's a municipal contribution, we call it a flat, necessary one, and it has to be paid by every investor. However, investors in the new areas must also contribute part of the costs or all costs to municipal equipment in the area connected through primary and supply systems in some way. This integration is fully through the primary and supply systems of this restricted area, for which all municipal equipment must be built, and also has to be funded because this equipment is either inadequate or obsolete by capacity. It is therefore necessary to provide for the obligation to pay a municipal contribution for both segments. This would not be necessary, of course, if we had the ideal situation, but we do not have it. This is the situation in America where an investor builds an area, with anything, builds all municipal equipment, leaves it to the municipality and the matter is over. With us, however, all that remains to be built is thoroughly restored. I would just like to say that utilities or municipal injustices are not what is mentioned here in Article 71. I would ask you to somehow generalise things here on compulsory and selective public services and also on those players of infrastructure in a space that is not in municipal jurisdiction and must be built, whether they have public authority or are market activities. This is called electricity, distribution and telecommunications to mention only two such cases. These are also utility devices and do not bind them with too long formulations. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Today, we have had the opportunity to hear that space is a good that requires or needs special attention, and it also needs to be done very carefully and in the long term, so the Spatial Planning Act is certainly one of the key laws that contributes to it. It has also been heard many times today that the Law on the Regulation of Space, which was not adopted so long ago, was flawed that a number of amendments and renovations were needed and that this law could not be rectified, and that is why we have also decided, or the Government has decided, that this law should be fully prepared in a new form. I myself have had quite a few such substantive conversations with people who have been working for practically a number of years in the field of space regulation, especially in the local environment, and these have also been able to detect certain criticisms of the existing law, but also to conclude that certain solutions in this law have been good to contribute to a more comprehensive and better regulation of space, but that this new bill does not take into account certain things that have been good. As we look at the situation now, we know that the procedures are complex, long - term, imprecise, and right to try to put an end to these things. Like any new issue, we are always faced with some expectation first, and what we want to achieve by means of a new law or act. It should certainly be for this law that it is as comprehensive as possible, that it really regulates or sets out all the aspects that the environment or space needs, but in particular it is increasingly necessary to stress that those provisions, which in some places have sufficient environmental protection rules, do not degrade spaces as unnecessary, but that we still have sufficient room for manoeuvre, which also allows the development of our society, specifically Slovenia. Here all unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles need to be removed, so that we do not have to waste any time and money with such and other activities. However, it is also extremely important that the public is still sufficiently equal and involved in those stages of procedures, when individual acts are taken, not by law itself, but, for example, when spatial plans are adopted, also includes, for we know, everything that is done is always or must always be in the public interest. And now the question before us is whether this law, which we have today under consideration, at general treatment, has met these expectations. Here again, I want to convey the message of the profession, and I share my own opinion, I can say that to a large extent, yes. There are laudable messages here, but there are also certain dilemmas, concerns, or not all of these solutions, which this law intentionally includes or introduces somewhere, but also some unknown one, whether we will be able to, above all here, this ability or ability, even in a technical sense, at the Ministry of the Environment, to achieve those tasks that it will undertake in a professional sense. But here perhaps the dilemma itself is not so present, the more time-consuming dilemma here will be able to solve all these powers that it will have, even in due time. So that we do not face the problem of incompetence in the future, because of the large amount of work here, then the problem is that those strategic documents, which are extremely important to the local community, will take place too slowly and will prevent development. Today, in the debates, my predecessors have already highlighted certain areas, particularly at some general level or systemic level. I don't want to repeat myself here, but I would have some specific questions here if you could then give me some explanations. We don't find the concept of landscape anywhere in this marriage. We know that Slovenia has signed the European Convention on the Landscape, and this concept is nowhere in place or taken into account. I would like to know whether this may not be contrary to this Convention or whether this matter is entirely compatible with it. The following matter is of interest to me that there is no definition of the validity of spatial acts in any article. Is this unnecessary, or is this aspect to be taken into account? The next thing that seems extremely important to me is that the preparation of the State Spatial Plan does not define anywhere the obligation to finance individual spatial arrangements and their parts. For if it is not, it will be possible to expect that all those proposals, in particular initiatives, will be a list of wishes, but not some actual possibilities for this realization. However, if we are also going to define this cost aspect, there will probably be a need to pay particular attention to coordination between the individual stakeholders who will take the lead here. And the last question, which I think is important to me, is that you have defined that if the State Spatial Plan requires a comprehensive environmental assessment procedure, it is stated here that this request will be entrusted to the Ministry responsible for the environment. Now I wonder if the ministry will also finance it, have they funded it by now, or have investors had to, and now, at least that's how it's supposed to be, this ministry. This is linked to the costs and I wonder whether these costs are then in the Ministry and whether this could also represent some significant funds in the budget. So much for now. That is all I would like to say: I believe that, according to the Minister's assurances, there will be a willingness here when we have this treatment in the home labour body, so that certain dilemmas will be clarified and that these initiatives, which the Members are likely to have, are also trying to take into account, in particular in the sense that this law will really solve these dilemmas or issues as comprehensively as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The debate shall be resumed by the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I would like to take advantage of Mr Grill's performance in order to explain in particular one segment which has also come to us, in particular, that we have 'put the landscape architects in an angle', as someone said before. This has been felt in some debates, and I would use it to say that this is not the case. And not only do my colleagues appreciate this expertise and its special knowledge of space, and in all procedures and content where their professional presence is important, will continue to be expressed. I can assure you of that. Allow me to be even more specific, or even more broadly explain this question, which may needlessly give rise to some professional prejudice to the entire content of the law: if I am not present, everything is bad. So I'd like to say the following. For the issue of the relationship to open space, you have also talked about this today, which, according to our proposal, is being fully analyzed and formed into units of space regulation, in accordance with the identity and typology of this space, is maintained to the greatest extent possible. Therefore, we have assessed as law-makers that it is not necessary for this unit to prepare a specific spatial act, as we have now had, and this has been called a landscape design. In view of the abandonment of the landscape design as a strategic spatial document, it was therefore clear from this profession that we did not take into account the landscapes or that we were simply too limited to architectural urban planning and that we had therefore deviated from the guidelines imposed by the European Convention on Landscapes, as well as some other international conventions. I would like to try to reject or explain that we include the landscape as an important element of space in spatial planning right under the already mentioned units of space regulation covering the municipality's territory in its entirety and not just the area of the individual settlement. In our view, this is the right approach and is based on a detailed and comprehensive knowledge of space, which presupposes interdisciplinary professional analytical work, which in this case lays down clear and precise conditions for spatial interventions. In addition, the preservation of landscape characteristics and the preservation, development and re-establishment of landscape diversity are also regulated in another law, which we all know well, the Nature Conservation Act, as well as in the process of coordinating development needs with protection requirements in the context of the preparation of spatial acts. This is, in a sense, an indication of the'space restriction' which the drafter must take into account. In this place the landscape architecture was not, I say again publicly, in any way degraded or placed in another position. I can't comment on all of your questions, some of them will come up with the expression on the working body. When you talked to some about this, I think that Mr Mikolić spoke about this, the administrative cuts in procedures are not just the intention. We with this law, in fact, our approach is that we see the reserve mainly in reducing administrative procedures, so that it will remain for more time at the substantive level. In procedures that are administrative in nature, there we see a possible reserve and there we reached the upper edge. You asked why three weeks, 21 days. Because we have calculated the days, since we have come from paragraph 5 of this Article, the Ministry shall, within 75 days of receipt of the proposal for a municipal spatial plan referred to in paragraph 5 by decision, approve the proposal for a municipal spatial plan. And when we counted the days, it was clear that in the first paragraph we had only three weeks to give this opinion that you were wondering about. As part of the committee procedure, we will be able to go once again through these hands, and we have made them, and it will go very closely. But this is the contribution of the state administration to doing everything in order to be at least in the next few years, when Slovenia will witness an important start in drawing on European, structural and other money, the euro in order to be as ready as possible at this spatial regulatory level. I wish and hope that there is no harm in quality. You also mentioned one question, this is a concrete question, and I would just like to mention it. Power grid equipment, for example. What's our experience? In practice, procedures are taking place that are not correct. Distributors blackmail congregations and investors. How? They say you give them for your own costs to build, for example, parts of a network or some other device, and then transfer them to distributors for free. This is happening in practice. That's illegal, that's unconstitutional. This is a state economic service. And for the development of the network, a network is charged to such a user. Therefore, in our law we propose that in an area for example, where electrical equipment is envisaged, a municipality may build for its costs, but it has a basis in the law to require reimbursement of the costs of the distributor. This is the novelty of this marriage. I think this is the right direction to change the current practice in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u34	All I'd say is this, Mr. Secretary-General. Because I said you put the landscape architects on the sidelines, but I wanted to compliment you on that. And don't mind if it's one of your professional associates now. It may also be necessary to restrict someone else’s presence for the congregation or for the country of important acts. Why? This is mainly from the point of view of similarity as I mentioned in the GDD, regarding the development of projects for construction permits and so on. And everyone can't wait for the country to change certain legislation so that they can earn a lot again. I find it hard to imagine that the construction permit project, which cost two million five years ago, today costs 12 million or more. What you said about electrical wiring, I completely agree. I'm grateful for that, too. That's actually what I'm trying to stress, that's very good. I've been discussing whether this is still true for Telekom and the rest. Why is that all it's written about? What are the public economic services provided by the municipality, I know that it is not involved, but we have other economic societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much. It is an extraordinary responsibility of the municipality to manage the premises, but unfortunately, the mayors find that the originality remains only with this adjective, which defines that in practice is not so far away and that we are, in both old and apparently, even under the new law, more or less just co-ordinators of what is found in the contents of the guidelines. Therefore, take this debate into account as a contribution to making this spatial planning law better. I actively participated in the debates and in the adoption of the ZUREP-pa and the Construction Law, I must say that with the same expectations as today, but unfortunately the practice later showed that those and then my expectations were unfounded or overly optimistic. Now let me tell you what the problem is. I'm sure the problem is in content. The Law on the Planning of Space and the Law on the Construction of Buildings are also good in substance and in purpose, and then everything went out of hand with the Minister when the content was defined. He's got it all out of his hands. And this is the real danger of the minister who is ahead of you in implementing and applying this law in practice. Here the officials of the Ministry and those who have written sub-laws have succumbed to the influence of entrepreneurship in that part of the profession, which deals with the production of everything necessary for the adoption of the spatial development strategy or the new municipal plan for the municipalities. That's definitely it. I'll try to prove it with one case. We have come a long way with the spatial development strategy, but everything has stopped when we face the guidelines that the Slovenian Agency has given in accordance with the Water Act, which defines what it is in article 61. And look, this same agency has instructed us in these guidelines that we have to make profiles for the full leadership of the congregation and in connection with this inflows for the whole watershed. It's like we've fallen out of the sky and we're doing this strategy or that water management in this area started with this moment when we started dealing with the spatial development strategy. We have previously adopted three social plans in this spatial area, which were also largely linked to flood safety studies in connection with the installation of the motorway in this water area, and now only once. This is a real danger, and this is a trap that we can also fall into when we bring into life this new law that has good intentions. And once again, the problem is in content. The problem is in content. The second thing I would like to say is, given the fact that every intervention in space is essentially a conflict of interest. And when we talk about conflicts, it is only necessary to establish arbitrators in conflict resolution. I think that, in view of my debate on the contents and given that the guidelines set by the space regulators as defined by the law are conflict-proof in accordance with the letter of the law on this draft spatial plan prepared by the municipality, and that I do not believe that much of the municipalities will succeed without an arbitration, which is in accordance with Article 50 of the Ministry of Environment and Space's legislative proposal, to bring these guidelines into line with their requirements. Therefore, I ask the Minister or I doubt that your intention to intervene and coordinate in all these cases is very brave that you will do so in the 15 days, and in the case of 210 municipalities, I must say that this is a very bold and courageous business, in which, taking into account the content that we do not know at this time, I must say that I have little doubt. However, I believe that there is something to be done in this area, because what is now going on in the resolution of conflicts, I reiterate and reaffirm. That every intervention in the space of conflict, that it is unregulated in the resolution of conflicts, I would like to illustrate that we have been putting a project in one place for seven years that has found a place in two state resolutions, that we have not yet come to the construction permit in this house for a project of national importance. This suggests that something needs to be done in this area. And once again, like the expectations of the adoption of ZUREP on my part, these expectations are also high when this law is adopted. Minister, it is your responsibility to take care of the content of the sub-laws and everything that will govern how the plans, guidelines and everything else, thus linked, should look. This is the key to success and I would agree to go in this direction, to try at least a part of this content even in the stage of the adoption of the law in the second and third reading to define in a little more detail that it will not, then what you yourself said is the strategy of one municipality, I don't know, with 5,000 hectares of surface and with 2,500 inhabitants, a document that does not appear to be over. This has in fact come from these spatial development strategies. However, when we adopted the Law on the Regulation of Space, it was said that this strategy, which we will write on 10 sheets, would be accompanied by a graphic annex on three sides. And we expect this in the congregation to be similar because it is only a definition, a strategic definition of the use of space, and everything else is then a matter of implementation plans. If we were to try to stay in this direction, if we were to follow as a bill-maker to avoid arbitration as much as possible, prepare legislation in this direction and lead the law in this direction in order to be an arbitrator, I would say, only to determine the compatibility of municipal solutions to spatial plans with national guidelines, then I think we could achieve a goal. I hope so and all my support for this law. I am convinced that it is necessary to accept it at first reading and to proceed as soon as possible and to conclude that the proceedings in the National Assembly are going in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd add a few more things to what I said, because I've been very long for the first time. First of all, Mr. Prevec. It is clear that I want to contribute to this debate and it is clear that I want to show that, in my opinion and in the opinion of many others, this law is, of course, conceptually bad, wrong and that it would be better to go the other way that I have already mentioned it. The other way is possible, and I'll try to show it and say it. If our common goal is to say that investors can come faster to issue a building permit, but at the same time to ensure that our settlements are orderly, meaningful, that we can use space rationally, then I would suggest another way to go from building permits to strategic plans of the country, if you want, and from building permits we look back at where and how it sticks and we might find and detect those problems that indicate that they are stuck here and there, and these things are not good and that something needs to be fixed. But it has to be fixed. Definitely. In the introduction, let me say that I don't know people or in Slovenia, or more, who could write one comprehensive law or laws regulating the space, and they would have been adopted, enforced and predicted and nothing would have happened. This is one of the typical laws, when you actually hope that you've hit about right and then by monitoring you fix, supplement and in a few years, even for decades, you can build some conherent and compact and good space management system, not just spatial planning. That's how it works, not by turning things upside down. I also received an opinion from the Legal and Legal Service. In fact, it is a public document and, in fact, Mr Minister, if you took it seriously, you should actually think and say that this law will have a completely different role and meaning and will have to be thoroughly changed, which reminds you if there are provinces and the landscapes are likely to happen. That's why it's so bad, and I don't understand how you've moved on. Secondly, you say that this law will be, and our colleagues say that this law will allow investors to no longer run for consent to issue a building permit. It's hard for me, too, because they run, but this law doesn't make any difference. Nothing. If we want to simplify procedures, I think it is necessary, as my colleague Petan said, that we should simultaneously amend the building law, even to see that the laws are rewired, as we would say, because later on, once you bring in the LAG, it will be possible to prove that you need to correct some of the provisions in the Spatial Planning Act. It was no coincidence that you discussed and jointly adopted the Law on the Planning of Space and the Law on the Construction of Buildings. And even when they were accepted together, there are a number of things that are such that they are not particularly good and need to be corrected, etc. Once again, I would like to point out, seriously, the deharmonisation in the field of environmental protection, the strategic or comprehensive assessment of environmental impacts and environmental impact assessments. 106. Article repeals certain articles and at the same time, which is an unusual practice in this Government, write a new article in this law on environmental protection. This is totally unacceptable. At the same time, you wrote that this law has no impact on European legislation. Minister, he's got it. And when they see you, they will report you and the European Commission will hunt you down, all of us or you, in the courts, if you don't change that. That's a fact. There's no doubt about that. Is this good, as proposed by the European Union, another. Of course, we can talk about this somewhere else. The implementation plans are already the basis for building permits, but the devil is in detail, of course, if it is too detailed, it is too complicated, if it is too detailed, in fact the investor does not know what to do. Nothing is written inside, on what criteria will state spatial plans, what will be the criteria, at which level you will set them, etc. Then he criticises that the previous marriage failed to fulfill its purpose. I would have said that I had a lot of comments on this law on space management. As far as spatial order is concerned, I said myself that the municipality does not need a specific spatial strategy, so that at municipal level the strategic element of the plan and the municipal plan can be combined. But you say that today there are such problems and that they cannot be solved. Of course there are problems, but now I have to be honest because you don't want to solve them. When the congregations come to you, to solve a problem that has arisen, you say from your belief that marriage is bad, "We don't want to solve it." And by doing so, you prove to yourself that marriage requires a complete overhaul or a new law. If we were to sit together with municipal planners and mayors, we would come up with solutions to certain changes that would address some of the shortcomings. It is certainly pointless to request the same of the plans and documents of the municipality of Ljubljana as the municipalities of Osilnice or Kobilje. And if what Sušnik said is very much in favour of his debate, if what the agency has ordered is illegal and not in accordance with the ZUREP. And what happened? I'll tell you exactly what happened. It happened that the agency or water segment does not have documents to tell the municipality of Vransko exactly where to set flood safety limits or something like that. And since she does not have it, the state should have, to the investor, to the planner, to the congregation of Vransko, ordered her to do something for her that would then tell her where to build. Completely, not only illegal, but also somewhat superstitious. And more than that. Leaders, wherever you see or hear them, point to the chronic lack of documents, data, and plans that affect these very segments and therefore hang them from the congregations. Therefore, spatial planning when this law is adopted, no other plan will be adopted in the field of water regulation so that this matter can be improved and corrected. He won't. I think what a fellow Sušnik said is very important. He said something that I did not say in my previous lecture at the outset, and it is right that he said that the conflict process is inevitable, not only that it is conflict, but that this conflict is inevitable because of the nature of space as limited goods. The art of law is how to regulate conflict. And if the conflict is strong, it will also affect the process of accepting the plan. That's clear. I would like to say in particular that I miss, I have forgotten to mention this, as well as modern planning methods, as well as participatory people, such as the use of the Internet, web portals, design and electronic tools that some countries and cities have, where the plan is literally created in the relevant bodies and is also on the screen or accessible from a complex place where people can accompany, cooperate, participate, propose solutions and so on. And it's no longer an illusion, it's a reality in a lot of places today even with us doing it somewhere, these things are very few. There's something posted on the Internet here and there. In fact, the whole plan, simultaneously planning as a process, should also be designed as an electronicly guided process. And if that were the case, we'd achieve a lot. We even have cases of our legislation. Regarding landscape planning, a colleague praised the fact that the landscape planners were outside. They're really out there. In fact, it's some kind of conflict that's been going on for years and decades, too, and the fact is, they're out. The fact is that the element we knew in the ZUREP, the provincial plan, is not actually a provincial plan. In this way, landscape architects are clearly placed at the beginning as editors of gardens and parks. In fact, they will have an auxiliary role to play in this planning process. I think we should sit down or require an open space of different types of plans, such as urban planning and similar things, or not. The dilemma is not that simple, but you have solved this dilemma in a way that you have erased one. And that's certainly not a good solution. I think it's bad. In addition, the areas of national spatial plans are usually covered by areas of the development region or by a fund governing regional development. This article will be dead in six months, eight months, it won't, it won't be necessary. Here I have taken some details - when time interrupts me, time will interrupt me, Mr Vice-President, what to do - Article 8, the principle of storage of pre-recognizable features of space, I quote: "Space planning must take into account the values and visibility of existing built and otherwise created structures which define the characteristics of architectural, cultural landscapes." Well, here's what cultural landscape is. It's a very special thing at all. Now I'm going to tell you this, yes, that sounds good and it seems reasonable and understandable. But if an architect, an urbanist really takes from some certain value points, innovation in space is simply not possible. If all usurers kept this strictly to the letter of the laws, today we would not have those modern innovative objects, regulations that break standards and eventually become like. In Ljubljana, the building, which was banned, was banned in 1900 by an urbanist from standing there, today it is an architectural monument. And so written articles can be perfectly good and appropriate in the hands and eyes of reasonable, smart urbanists, architects and officials. In the eyes and in the hands of the unreasonable, very tight, if I may say so, but they are death. And, of course, there are many other things like this. The ratio of the municipality-state. If this planning of spatial arrangements is of local importance in the area of the State Spatial Plan, if this does not allow the implementation and application of the State Spatial Plan of certain spatial arrangements, the municipality may also regulate its affairs [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] if the government allows it. [[...]] Please! Well, that's a little cynical, so to speak. Urbanist plans and all other things could say a lot, but the space management unit is not defined, it is not known what it is. As it is, I think it will be an instrument and a heavy instrument. And once again, this article changes the article in the second law, in the Environmental Protection Act, which is very bad. There is no separation between the tendering and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] explained construction and so on. [[...]] I don't think this marriage should go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Member Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with a number of teams, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On this occasion, of course, I thank my colleague Gantar for his thoughts, which are based on a series of professional opinions that he has gained through his work. However, just as architecture marks a certain time period of space in the environment, the content of the proposal for a law on spatial planning reflects this time in the environment and in the space. And, of course, taking all this into account, it is difficult to do something that will move the bill's amendments over time for a few years in order to avoid all that was behind. In my work, I will focus mainly on the topics that work the most, I will say the widest range of people, i.e. the area that concerns the municipal spatial plan, the municipal detailed spatial way, the urban plan, the area of dispersed settlement, and the municipal contribution that I think has not yet been told about or overheared here today. The municipal spatial plan, which replaces the spatial order of the municipality or spatial order, which is the spatial development strategy of the municipality or prepares for the planning of spatial arrangements of local importance, in areas where no detailed spatial plans are envisaged, is the basis for the preparation of construction projects. In addition, the municipal spatial plan has the following mandatory components, namely the strategic part and the urban plan. The strategic part sets out the starting points and objectives, as well as the design of the spatial development of the municipality, guidelines for the development of settlements and guidelines for development in the countryside, for comprehensive reconstruction, for the determination of land use and spatial implementation conditions and for the design of economic public infrastructure. The urban plan is the basis for comprehensive planning for the development and operation of settlements and prepares for all settlements in the municipality, where spatial development or comprehensive reconstruction is envisaged. The content of the urban plan shall be adapted to the size and spatial characteristics of the settlement. Its importance is demonstrated by the fact that spatial development is prioritised in the area of existing settlements in the free or underexploited area. With this, settlements are concentrated and built in a way that re-establishs their visibility of what the Minister has emphasized in his last performance. One of the key components, in my opinion, is also the identification of areas for the use of space for the construction of buildings related to the management of various activities or residences, as this determines the area or land on which it is possible to build. Such land thus acquires the status of building land. It is of crucial importance that these areas should be specified on a plot. In addition to building land, the municipal spatial plan also identifies areas of agricultural, forest, water and other land, which I think is of great importance. The municipal spatial plan shall specify the area of the dispersed settlement, where this is an indigenous pattern of settlement. As far as possible, the area of dispersed settlement shall be maintained and protected by planning to rebuild or renovate legally built buildings, and the planning of new interventions in the area may only be possible if it retains the identifiable features of the space. The identification of the area of dispersed settlement is particularly affected by us coming directly from such areas. The municipal detailed spatial plan, which, according to the proposal of the law, will be drawn up in particular for the spatial arrangements necessary for the implementation of the local public service, here I also think is crucial and the proposal of the law is very well resolved that for spatial arrangements in areas which are complexly regulated and where more interlinked interventions are planned in space, the spatial arrangements with which the settlement is extended, the spatial arrangements necessary for the rehabilitation of degraded urban and natural areas. The municipal detailed spatial plan is the basis for the issue of the building permit. The spatial act system will replace the current municipal location plan. I am also delighted by the solution that the planning of spatial arrangements and individual interventions to the premises on the best agricultural land is permissible only if it is not possible to use land less suitable for agricultural production. Just a little bit more about the municipal contribution. A theme that appears almost monthly at various meetings of city, local and municipal councils and which people are particularly sensitive to. The law introduces the purpose of spending the funds collected by the municipal contribution, which is the payment of part of the construction costs of municipal equipment paid to the municipality by the debtor for the payment of the municipal contribution. The municipal contribution does not include the cost of maintenance of utility equipment, but is determined on the basis of the equipment programme according to the surface and the equipment of the building land with municipal equipment and the net floor area of the facility and its destination. The municipal contribution is not paid for the construction of economic public infrastructure, which I think is essential, and the municipality can also prescribe that the municipal contribution is not paid for the construction of non-profit dwellings. In conclusion, I would like to add that I have looked forward to the information provided by the Minister of Environment and Space that changes in construction legislation are already being prepared, as my colleague Gantar has already mentioned today, that we should somehow go parallel or together, when we should definitively abolish the current location information that has in practice been found to be causing much unnecessary work to the municipal administrative authorities, while at the same time useless to investors. Any person who has experience with some minimal construction or construction of an apartment or apartment or any other facility, the word "locational information" raises his heart rate. The Spatial Planning Act terminates the location information only in the part relating to the purposes of real estate transport and for the purposes of construction leaves it in force until changes to the construction legislation, as the applicable building law defines it as a mandatory component of the construction permit project and in the case of the construction of simple buildings and some others, even as a substitute for a building permit. Perhaps the law needs some minor addition, some change, the first consideration today is intended to determine, through a broad discussion, whether or not to release something on purpose, which links matter with other laws and I believe that we will find, through this debate, an even more appropriate solution, which we will then be able to make as a substantive amendment to the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you, too. To conclude the debate, however, the Minister shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Marinič, who in fact presented some of the solutions to the law, for which I, as a proposaler, did not have enough time, and some were very specifically presented, particularly some which were previously criticized or otherwise understood in the debate by some colleagues. I would like to take a brief look at Mr Sušnik and Mr Ganttar in the debate. I share my opinion with you, Mr Member, also Mr Mayor, where one of the keys to the success of this law is. One of the keys to the success of this law is the courageous decision that is enshrined in the law that, in the fact that each spatial planning is coordination, and in the fact that coordination of individual regimes can result in a conflict between it or in the fact that communication between the congregation is taking place, until now, there has been a need for someone to step into this place of arbitration, as you said, the coordinator. Tell me, do you know a better way than this is a proper space facility? How are we gonna get organized? Perhaps because of the importance of this area we will partially restructure the Directorate, establish a new organisational unit within our house. Why not? This area is so important for the functioning of the country in this segment and of the municipalities that I will have full support, I am sure, even in the Government, if any changes are to be made to the restrictive cadre. And I would suggest that you trust this solution, which is brave, but I think it's the right one. Across Europe, too, they have problems with their hands, with coordination, especially with the fact that the European Union is conscious, a Europe that is highly valued for the value of space and also for environmental dimensions, says that spatial planning will, in a conscious way, also incorporate an environmental component. I do not take this as a complication and as an additional problem, but as a conscious decision of the European Union to take environmental elements into account when planning space. That is why the Member States of the European Union have problems when planning with space. This is one of the keys to success and let us go boldly forward to make good use of this key. Dr. Gantar said maybe we should go another way. Let's go from the building permit to the state plan to figure out where it's stuck. You don't have to go this way because I'm sure we know where it's stuck. It shall be concluded in the absence of the acts in force. It assures you that it is stuck because the acts in force are flawed. And that's the main problem. If the application for a building permit is complete, it shall be issued within two months. And this is also the success of Dr. Virant and his team of administrative units. What then, and this is the fact that, as a rule, many spatial acts are incomplete and where the spatial act is incomplete, it is either an arbitration facility or a discretionary decision-making facility. When an investor appears that insists on building precisely on a location that is neither wally nor because of an incomplete spatial act there is a discretionary decision that is not possible there, we are witnessing a long-term procedure that ends even in the courts. That is why this change of law is necessary, and that is why it is necessary for us to come very soon, and we will come, I assure you, with a related amendment to the building law. That I won't be too long. I'd say once again that we're serious about submarital acts. The question was to what extent individual plans would be prepared. This is the content of the regulations already prepared in the draft. The Regulation on Content and Form, State, Spatial or Municipal Methods of the Spatial Plan will properly address this issue. Thank you very much. Just one more question that is important and I do not underestimate it in any way how the public will be involved in these proceedings. This is a serious topic, a European theme, and also a civil issue. We will fully follow the commitments of the Aarhus Convention. We know that the Aarhus Convention binds the signatory countries, and Slovenia, and the European Union as an instrument, as a whole, has signed this Convention, has accepted it. The public is already involved in the preparatory phase, but we have decided that we will also allow the public to be included in the stage of the preparation of the variants or to co-decision in the selection of the final variants. Now we can find out, and also many mayors have confirmed that the first space conference did not come to life, did not serve its good purpose. Based on our considerations, we have decided not to repeat it in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you, too. We have 39 minutes left under this item, so we will apply Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure and open a possible new round of discussions. I'm asking for an application, and I'm also asking the Minister for a possible application. The application shall be made. The three Members and, of course, the Minister have joined in the additional debate. Each of the discussers will have five minutes. I invite Paul Gantar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! It won't take five minutes. I think I've said a lot today. Although I did not have any great illusions to convince you that after all this long process, probably in the second and third readings, we will come up with a new document that will put the same and the same problems before municipal men, planners, and experts in the same way. Once again, I would say that the adoption of spatial legislation, and not only of spatial planning, but of all the other instruments for regulating the space that I have already mentioned, is also today, from fiscal, financial, land, building, administrative, control, impact assessment, procedures, assessments and the like, that this is an extremely complicated process and that there is no law that could suddenly work and change things. Such laws take time to enforce, ZUREP, although critical to it, did not have, nor did he have support in the composition of the current ministry. Some think and think that the problems that ZUREP can easily overcome by solving the problems in this planning will not be the case. I've mentioned it before. That's all I'd say about the space conference. Now I am not telling you, but I hope you will understand this, I am not speaking to you now as a policy of the opposition party. I'm talking to you as a space sociologist. It seemed to me that the spatial conference, unless a methodology was developed, would not be produced, unless it was led by only administrative officials at the Ministry, in order to give rise to some bureaucratic presentation of views, opinions and so on, instead of a lively forum and discussion of some fundamental and then also the implementation elements of a particular spatial document. You didn't take that into consideration. This institution has lived for three years and has not lived as it should, but I think we should give it a chance anyway. The Institute of Public Disclosure lives, I don't know how long, 50, 60 or more years, because the tradition itself is from long-standing planning, pre-industrial whole. We have often found that it is extremely weak and insufficient, but you have not stopped it, but you have left it because it is easy for planners, because they can play each other's views against each other because they do not need to engage in public discussion, in spatial arrangements that are subject to public interest and public domain, because they can hide behind the Spanish wall of their functions and because they can in fact get rid of these comments in public debates quickly. That is why, Minister, this is a poor solution and a solution which is contrary to what everyone in turn emphasises, with the so-called communication dimension of planning, because the importance is not only the plan at the end, but also the procedure by which it is adopted. There is nothing to help us if there are protests, people cling to bulldozers, buildings and buildings at the construction of a building that has everything allowed, because such a level of dissatisfaction with intervention in the space that is happening in us is elsewhere in the world. You had this chance. ZUREP gave this opportunity. You threw that away, and I don't think that's good. I warn you, not because I think this is a political matter, a matter in which the position and coalition on this line should differ. We can be different by assessment, by judgment. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's in the line of duty. [[...]] But that would be a good debate, but there will be no debate. You've finished things and I'm sorry that this is so, I'm afraid that another reformer will come after you to reform what you just left behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, who wrote this law? Dear Minister, who wrote you this law, which we see to be unprofessional, unimaginative and conceptually flawed. There are two points I'd like to point out. It's been heard a lot, but these two seem important to me to put them out again. I believe that a well-intentioned initiative is a new dictatorship, a new designation of spatial documents, but look at the fact that at least two have been introduced into the law and, of course, into its implementation. The first is confusion, because people are used to it, and not just us, even in the international world, the established names, but the second is, of course, the new costs involved. Look, if you're going to replace speed now, and then in all the books you want this to be taken into account, there are huge costs, the most banal example I've said. And the other thing is, the harder I get, the centralisation of planning. So far, we have had spatial planning at national, regional and municipal level. The regional level is now moving to the state level. On the one hand, this increases the responsibility of congregation planning, and I am interested in where especially smaller congregations will find those experts who will be able to carry out this task so much more responsibility. The other thing is that, despite the preparation of the law on regionalisation, the regional level of planning, it moves to the Ministry of Environment and Space, i.e. to the state level. And what does that mean? It is moving to where, after experience, we see that the biggest problem, the most problems with the implementation of planning, is, therefore, we can only expect an even worse situation. See, Mr Minister, for this reason, I propose that the law, which is also in fact impossible to improve with amendments, be withdrawn and proposed in such a form as will be for the benefit of citizens and citizens and our beautiful space. Let us be aware of the Slovenia we have and must protect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you. Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u48	Once again, a nice hello. This debate has been very interesting and I am sure that the Minister has heard a number of well-intentioned remarks that will still be possible to make in this bill in order to improve the law as much as possible. I must say that for this marriage I have prepared myself well and for a long time and that I have examined a number of experts in this field and I must say that I have been quite confused because I have received very contradictory opinions on the proposed law. I was reassured when I attended the consultation that was scheduled for mayors and municipal workers, because there was really a lot of attendance for a large number of congregations and a very positive opinion was expressed on this law. But it is not good for us to put to sleep by doing so, so it is also right to listen to those other opinions, for there is still time for us to make improvements. I will conclude with an opinion sent to me by a colleague who has been working in the area for over 20 years. Before I read this, I will also say that it seems very important to me, too, what records we have, so I have already put a great deal of emphasis on the spatial information system. But it is very important what information we have that we will put into this spatial information system. An example that was previously mentioned for an agency or a guide. If the leaders do not have, I will say, the digital foundations of flood-threatening areas, but the good, current areas of this data, that this information system will not be able to provide, and the information system will not be complete. So this system will work and it will be good if it is filled with all the necessary, quality and good data. In addition, there is a cadastral of economic public infrastructure, which I mentioned earlier. Here, too, I think it is very important what data we will give in this cadastral public utility infrastructure, who will give this information. I think we should at least lay down the content, the way the Geodetic Authority will take over by means of a sub-legislative act. I think that a geodetic elaborate must be made so that the data can go to a satisfactory degree and satisfy the accuracy of this cadastral. If not, what has been said before will happen to watch the cable or the non-communal platoon just a few meters away, as is actually happening. However, the fight for business in this area is certainly also due to the fact that opinions are being broken in this professional community. That's what you need to understand. I think that we should not be subject to individual lobbying here, that when it comes to the adoption of the law, the preparation of the law really needs to look at what is best for us to do and adopt. It is said that what is set to lead to simplification, appreciation, but also to good quality. Let me finish with one of these opinions from my colleague. Among other things, he stumbled against this changed expression, saying: "...I am very interested in who in this conceptual confusion, when the provisions have constantly changed, when the concepts of three laws cross with transitional provisions, 1984, 2002 and now this new law and in every law are different." And it ends like, "Yeah, that's it, it's never going to be easy, you're going to have to hire an expert to interpret the law." And the problem is this lack of urban experts, the old ones are going to retirement, they've never been brought up deliberately, and now, in the absence of urban bureaus, young people have no place to gain experience. So he's alerted urban experts who are missing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for this long debate, which shows that this issue is complex, that we are always giving birth to different views, that many professions are involved in solving it, and you have repeatedly said that you do not doubt the good purpose of the proposalr, but in politics and as a legislator we know well that the good purpose is too little. A good purpose must be specified in the legislative text, which specifies this good purpose. I must say that even after this debate I firmly believe that the proposed concept of law is good, that it comes at the right time. Yes, perhaps too late, but certainly not too early, that is to say, we had to do some internal analysis at the Ministry itself, and when we found that there was no possible change of law, we came up with a proposed solution, which I firmly believe in, and some of the solutions to individual articles are open to improvement. I would also reject the view that the law is intellectually flawed or unprofessional, there is no formal argument here, this is a classic flat-rate assessment, which is also offensive to the top experts who wrote the law. The marriage was written by people who were professionally covering this area, and it was a serious job, months, very serious professional work. The fact is, on the one hand, the law reduces and rationalises procedures and, on the other hand, the higher and lower levels of government officials will literally challenge them to react and act quickly. I would like to reiterate this view or the assumption that, in the event of the failure of state institutions, it is considered that the government authority agrees, in this case with the municipal proposal. I am aware that this is a large organisational and substantive resource, both of which I am managing and of other sources. On the other hand, the law also has motivation, for clarity of the legal provisions and the uniformity of the procedures literally invites the municipalities to become more dynamic in the overall spatial planning at the level of the congregation. And as it has been said several times that the state enters and moves the autonomy of the congregations, I can only say that it is a responsible solution that the law offers as an opportunity. It is a subsidiary responsibility or responsibility of the State to intervene if the congregation is unable or unwilling. In a short time, we will have a law on the bench that will also legitimize this possibility of spatial planning. The law is also a formal normative basis that will allow municipalities and the State to re-establish order in such a sensitive area as space regulation. I propose that you, Members and Members of Parliament, make this possibility possible with the support of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 6.25 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the garden law. The draft law was tabled by the Party of Young Slovenia on behalf of 5,000 voters. With regard to this law, a group of 13 Members and Members with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u52	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government! Nice to meet you! I will briefly present to you our proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Kindergarten Act. I am Darko Krajnc, President of Stanka Youth Slovenia, who, through the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, signed by over 6,000 citizens and citizens in administrative units, introduced this law into the procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, with the help of more than ten Members, we have made it possible for this law to have a general discussion in the National Assembly as well. I am pleased, however, that the debate on the issue of preschool education has taken place both in the media and in general in the public. Certain debates have been organised and many opinions have been drawn up. I believe you Members and Members of Parliament have already read our bill on 29 pages. You have also received the opinion of the Government, which is not positive to this law and also the opinion of the Young Slovenia Party, which is trying to contradict the opinion of the Government with its arguments. We have also made many arguments in the introduction of this law, and I will then lower those arguments. Of course, this move must be based on one general outline of circumstances. I think the first point is the issue of youth, especially young families, in the making. There's a lot of talk about family policy and birth policy. Young people, when comparing Slovenian youth to young people abroad, are very dependent on their parents for a long time and stay at home. They don't have a chance to solve the housing issue. The problem of first services is great and then the question of expensive kindergartens. In fact, kindergartens are expensive in Slovenia, if we look at the percentage of the family's income for preschool education, this is between 25 and 30% of us and 8% of the OECD countries. The average is between 6 and 8. In the Young Slovenia Party, we regularly point to these problems. We have also pointed out the dependence of young people in public. In some ways, there is a need to broaden policy in order to reduce dependence. Of course, intergenerational solidarity, which is widely discussed, is also at stake. Here I wonder if it is the will to show and purpose for young people to also infuse a certain hope with concrete actions? A lot of them are desperate. In the Party of Youth Slovenia, we have driven the problem of kindergartens from 2000 onwards, mainly by municipalities, through our municipal councilors, we managed to keep the prices of kindergartens low. And lower them somewhere. Of course, we have also introduced in many congregations congregational assistance for newborns. However, we have seen that a partial solution to the problems at local level will not suffice. That's why we decided to do it. It was written by experts from various fields, together with the guidance of the party and the knowledge of this situation in practice. Our proposal solves a number of complex problems in the area of preschool education. In particular, it reduces the cost of kindergartens and brings financial burdens on parents. This is the main purpose of our law and, of course, to make it possible for children to be equal. And what is guaranteed by Article 56 of the Constitution is the constitutional protection of children. In the defense of the law, the main arguments are the costs incurred by the State in place of parents. Then funding, which is centrally regulated. This is not about centralisation, as has been seen, but only about state-level funding, in order to simplify payments and costs. Main arguments: in the Youth Party, we believe that the starting point of children, not parents and their income, equality and justice, the involvement of children in kindergartens must be increased. Also enable those 40% who are not included and are not included in any analysis of why they are not included, and how much costs would we reduce red tape if these were included in research, secondary costs, in the payment of preschool education. There's no need for any evidence. This avoids paying, effective singleness, and such concealment. This is positive for the environment, the family environment and marriages. If we say that this is also a matter of payment, we strongly oppose the statements that it is a matter of taking the poor and giving to the rich, because this social justice must be corrected by tax policy. Freely, the problem of average families is solved. Previous income. That's all. Capacity in kindergartens. That's enough. Sometimes there are problems. There are problems that need to be solved. The country's financial burden is only 20.25 billion out of 3450 billion in 2008, which is 0.7% of total expenditure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u53	I'd like you to finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u54	Yes, I do. However, the final point is that in the OECD countries, most of them are regulated in this way, as we suggest. That's the argument. If the government believes that an amendment needs to be added, we are also willing to help write it. This means, however, that in the case of the payment of possible cost of eating and similar costs, it has been reported that they have this elsewhere. And of course, our education according to norms and standards is nothing special to the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u55	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u56	It is evident that preschool education and its arrangements also have an impact on greater fertility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the introductory presentation of the opinion of Dr Magdalena Sverc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sport. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u58	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal of the Youth Party. We have already given a number of reasons in explanation. Maybe I'll just put a few more in here. For pre-school education from public funds in 2006, we spent 45 billion tolars, I apologize, on parental payments. The contribution of parents was 18.5 billion tolars in 2006. The average payment of parents in Slovenia for preschool education is 94 thousand 920 tolars. We believe that the regulation of pre-school education and funding from public funds in Slovenia is regulated by following the standards of fairness. So it supports the social weaknesses, because it divides parental payments into eight classes. The full payment of the service by public funds is not known by any system in Europe to pay all children. This means 100% preschool service. What, however, in the debates on kindergartens and pre-school education by the Youth Party has somehow stimulated a positive public debate and we also believe from the Government that it is necessary to re-examine the organisation, financing and actual service, which is quite expensive compared to other European countries or also with OECD countries. Therefore, we think that it is necessary to reconsider, both by the municipalities, by the legislator and by parents, what kind of service we want in the area of preschool education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Master Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u60	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our Group of Members, we welcome the activity of civil society, since this is the first example of a human initiative in us as a special form of direct democracy. We are pleased to see citizens and citizens of Slovenia serving the constitutionally guaranteed rights of the human initiative. This law advocates the same system of financing for kindergartens as for primary, secondary, higher and higher education. So, for free kindergartens or this kind of cost, the state will take over. According to them, this would eliminate long-standing discrimination against preschool children. However, a system of equal educational opportunities for all children would also be established irrespective of the status of their parents. Although we support the idea of free kindergartens in our parliamentary group, many parents have a very high price for not sending their children to kindergarten. Despite the invitation to help young families, there is probably no parent who would not be happy and willing to support the proposed law, unfortunately we cannot support it for two reasons. The first one's financial. The fact is that such changes in the system’s funding are linked to a much longer procedure to provide an answer, from where or where the country should take this money, since it is not a small amount. Others say that the wealthiest and richest would also be aligned with these social problems. In the current legislation, social adjustment has already been introduced for parents who are not able to pay the costs of kindergarten. Thus, almost 6% of the children for whom parents are exempt are paid. However, 22% is allocated to the first payment grade, which means that the parents of these children pay 10% of the cost of the program. Despite such regulations, many indicators point to the unfair and unhappy composition of the income class and the classification of parents into payment classes. Let me illustrate this with a few examples. A system of identification of parents' property, which is extremely difficult to prove, increasingly exploiting the legal possibilities for obtaining social rights and other benefits for separate partners, demonstrating apparent livelihoods, etc. In view of the fact that, in the Group of Members, we consider that, in determining parental payments, it is largely a poor reflection of tax legislation and the powerlessness of inspection of tax services and social work centres, we believe that more attention should be paid to the elimination of these anomalies. Members of our parliamentary group, as has already been said, are pleased to accept the proposal for free kindergartens. The fact is that such a proposal from a financial point of view is unrealistic and completely unrealistic. Moreover, the path towards achieving this objective would not have been sufficiently thought out, as the applicants did not take into account the fact that the State Treasury would not currently bear this burden. Nevertheless, we call on the Government to adopt guidelines on the continuation of the pre-school education strategy, as Members of our group believe that in the future it would be possible to find frameworks and ways to resolve the issue of free kindergartens or to relieve parents and municipalities by involving the country more actively as a third partner. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the coalition agreement includes paragraphs that speak of preparing programmes for children and young people in a pleasant environment. This is still an unfulfilled task to be undertaken, and then we will also consider the level of payment of pre-school education and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, proposers, representatives of the Ministry! The proposal for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergarten was submitted to the National Assembly by the Party of Youth on behalf of 5,000 voters or with several signatures. The proposal to amend the law provides for all children to become kindergartens regardless of age and duration of the programme free of charge. The proposal was tabled before the local elections and is very welcome and certainly has also raised some additional voice in the elections and could be supported by the SDS in the SDS Group. However, they would be the only European country to decide on such a way of financing preschool protection. It would be hard to say that we are significantly richer than others, and we could defend it. Such a method of financing would not be socially fair, as it would provide funds for the payment of kindergartens for all. For those who may have relatively high incomes and pay for kindergartens, too, there is no burden on them. Besides, no one pays 100% of the kindergarten price after the current arrangement. But anyone who has a child involved in kindergarten is provided 20% of the subsidy. This amount of the subsidy is converted to average costs. It represents 40 hours of free stay for a child in kindergarten. So, about two hours of free day care is failing. Payment of the remaining 80% of the cost of the programme is calculated by social scale. So, by pay grade, which is 8. Taking into account the income and wealth of the family. This ensures social justice in some way, or we can say that it is a social correction. According to data, 6% of parents are completely exempt. So they're classified as zero pay grade. They do not pay 0% of the price of the programme and the entire service is provided and paid by the country or local community. 22% is classified in the first payment grade. It means they're paying 10% of the program. On average, parents in Slovenia pay 30% of the program price and 70% have been paid by the local community so far. It is estimated that the applicants should be provided for this, i.e. their proposal in 2008 - 79 billion and 88 billion in 2009. If we did, the first question is whether these funds would actually be sufficient and the funds already allocated should be redeployed from local level to national level. The proponents say we have low child participation in kindergarten. At the first age, this is 47% and is one of the highest in the European Union. Denmark has a higher percentage, 61. In the second age group, however, 81% were enrolled. Here we are also among the higher in the European Union. Nevertheless, it is likely that the percentage is still unsatisfactory and we will strive to increase this percentage. We should probably ask ourselves: ‘ What about those children who are at home who are not involved in kindergartens? What does the State grant them or not subsidise them? But today, this is not a topic today, but we will certainly have to talk about it and adopt certain conclusions. In addition, the proposal of the Young People's Party would take away certain tasks they have. You can't just transfer the funding to the state level. Here, too, all the tasks the municipality has to establish a educational institution to ensure its work. Like a lot of other assignments. This is also the original competence of the local community, which is obliged to provide the necessary funds, which it also receives from the State. Even in most countries of the European Union, the municipalities are those who establish and are responsible for financing kindergartens. The applicants also compare curiculum, kindergarten and school. They're talking about an education program. In kindergarten, we can talk about informal education as opposed to primary school, where more than one criterion is introduced. It is said that at the end of the programme, a public document is issued, which already ensures that someone can work or continue to study. After that, the completion or completion of the school programme is also a condition for entry into the next level of education. The school curriculum is equipped with knowledge standards. An assessment shall be required there. Formal progress is required from class to class, including the possibility of re-examination of exams and so on. In addition, we need to know that the primary school is mandatory in Slovenia for once, while attending kindergarten is not. It is true that it is necessary to have children in kindergarten, since virtually both spouses are usually employed. But that is also a question that we will not solve under this law and today. For years, parishioners have been pointing to the problem of paying kindergartens or the high cost of preschool education in budgets, especially in smaller municipalities, of how big a problem this is. The government also listened to this in the 2005 budget rebalancing, when it increased resources for local communities, also increased them due to pre-school education. At the Ministry of Education and Sport, they are aware that the system needs to be regulated or modified. Finally, this is also the recommendation of the Court of Auditors. With all the changes, the Ministry must coordinate with both representatives of the municipalities, namely the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, in order to achieve the best possible solutions and the best possible solutions for all. The basis for the change of the system is already in place. They're getting ready. That's what they're talking about. It is expected that we will be dealing with this in the following year or with amendments to the Kindergarten Act here as well. Let me end by saying that free kindergartens sound really good. But it's important to know that there's no freebie. Every service and activity someone pays. When parents do not directly pay for a service or part of a service, of course we pay taxpayers or all citizens. As we say, a system of financing kindergartens needs to be changed. However, in our Group of Members, we believe that the proposal of the Youth Party is not the right solution. Due to the explanations I have given, and despite the likeness of the proposal for so-called free kindergartens, it seems very easy to solve the problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Kindergarten Act tabled by the Youth Party will not be supported. However, we expect an early proposal from the Ministry of Education and Sport on the system of financing pre-school education.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you. Dr. Slavko Gaber will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u64	Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen! According to the assessment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, its parliamentary club is qualitatively comparable to European kindergartens. We believe that the subsystem of preschool education is one of the relatively well-established. We expect that in the future, it will not change into a direction that has, fortunately, been outlined in one of the resolutions that have already been withdrawn. This means reducing the educational level of teachers and raising the number of children in the departments. At the same time, we believe that the system needs to be upgraded. It is clear that it is necessary to extend the supply of a variety of programmes in kindergartens, to come up with a system of payments and, if possible, to reduce them by a majority of the population and the population, to strengthen the supply of shorter programmes including evening care. And it is also possible to list the actions that this area is calling for. With regard to the proposal that we have before us, we also agree. This, of course, is obvious at first sight that this is a very attractive proposal. At least, in our view, the proposal requires very serious reflection. If, for nothing else, then at least in the light of the fairness of the system proposed. If we really spent about 20 billion tolars of public funds extra for this area, it is necessary to ask whether this would be the most fair when we are all aware of it, if I remain only in some areas, that we are currently unable to pay a warm meal in Slovenian schools even for the socially weak to a sufficient extent. Yes, the transport of students is not free of charge, for example, that we have very high costs of an extraordinary study regardless of social origin. Yes, there are not enough credits available to buy apartments for young families, etc. This could be listed. Together, we will hear that if 20 billion tolls are truly available to us to use them wisely, then this should be the case. We therefore suggest that we rather sow illusions about how a magic stick can suddenly solve all the questions that exist and exist for quite some time in the area of preschool education, and rather than believe too quickly that, for example, with free kindergartens for all of us to increase fertility in this country, we continue with significantly less ambitious steps but with very specific ones. We propose to hold a debate on the proposal ahead of us and confirm it at first reading. I can say to our Group that it will support it with the aim of finalising the law until the second reading in such a way as to take the first step towards further reducing payments for groups of families whose income does not exceed the point of obviously rich income. In doing so, let us abolish the current step-by-step determination of payment classes. As far as possible, a federal calculation of the amount of payments in kindergartens should be introduced. Someone in front of me has already been talking about some trouble coming up, and I think it's a colleague of Klavor's. In particular, when establishing the payment scale, the issue of the fair burden of families with different levels of income should be examined. In considering the law, the proposer should also pay particular attention to preventing the current event of so-called fictitiously separate lives in different families with one purpose, with a view to lowering the price in kindergartens. Special study also requires the promotion of shorter forms of education and protection and the evening care of children. This should be considered. There were also speeches on how to take account of the different payment capacity of people and people of certain municipalities in Slovenia when paying and when they were burdened by municipalities in these payments. Let me finish with one more suggestion. In Europe, one of the last communications sent by the Commission to the European Parliament is that it is considered to be very important at the level of preschool education to enable those who come from families with low amounts of cultural capital to obtain this capital as early as possible in their lives. It's during preschool. We should consider whether we are able to invest more resources. Targeted not just to everyone, but to those where, for example, there is income at home for more than a million dollars net. It is not appropriate to absolve them of payment. I don't know, like 60 grand in kindergarten. However, we need to be concerned with what we need to do to increase the safety of children from weak families in order to improve their linguistic competence. Because if it increases during this period, it is significantly easier in primary school and beyond. The reproduction of inequality is significantly reduced. This is a dilemma which at least in the Liberal Democracy Club seems to us to be a real dilemma of preschool education. We don't have anything on the principle level. Like probably many others, not just in this area, but elsewhere, not against free. However, at the abstract level, all things can be free. At a concrete level, however, an appropriate relationship should be sought between options, priorities, needs and also a meaningful consideration of where the measures are truly fair. That's why we're going to support the opportunity for the marriage to go to second reading. Of course, now I say that in the second reading we will only support it if it is conceived in these directions that I have just talked about. I believe that more will contribute to the further development of preschool education in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable candidates, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport, honourable Members and Members! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have reviewed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Kindergarten Act, which has received strong public support, which also confirms more than 5,000 signatures that paved the way for the legislative process. We have also read with equal attention the opinion of the Government on the proposal. As we know from experience that the coalition in the National Assembly follows a government opinion, the fate of the proposal is predictable and predictable. The general debate on the bill may therefore be unnecessary for someone, but in the Social Democrats Group we want to design it with some basic views on pre-school education. This is particularly true because it is one of the arguments by which the Government denies support for the bill, including the announcement that the Government is preparing the basis for the preparation of amendments and the completion of the Kindergarten Act, I state:'so that at the beginning of the next year the Government will be able to submit its Amendments and Supplements to the Kindergarten Act'. Social Democrats advocate the fullest possible involvement of children before entering school in the public preschool education network. In doing so, we are relying on the knowledge of the profession that the intellectual and emotional development of pre-school education is very important for socialisation for further education for the child. If we want to achieve the greatest possible social inclusion and equal opportunities for further life, we need to find the way to raise the involvement of children, which is in 2005-2006 - 63.6%. In doing so, we believe that the most attention should be paid to the public kindergarten network. Of course, we are aware that a lot of benefits can be derived from a private initiative. However, let us only support as much involvement as possible while ensuring a quality pre-school education programme. Therefore, while increasing the involvement of children, we need to ensure continuous quality control of preschool education. However, the quality indicators of preschool education in kindergartens are known and verified. Three are key: the number of children per department, the situation between the number of adults and the number of children in the department and the education of the teacher or other person participating in the department. While all three indicators in many studies have a decisive impact on working methods in the world, the latter is particularly important because of the impact of kindergarten on children's development and learning during the period when children's development is the fastest. The quality of Slovenian kindergartens has increased over the last decade if the equipment for the follow-up has been made. Therefore, it is unacceptable for the Social Democrats to think about such changes as would only take into account the price aspect and would go towards lowering standards and standards. That is why the debate on the proposed law cannot be reduced to a financial point alone. If the proposal is unacceptable to the State from the point of view of sustainability of public finances, then we should ask ourselves what are the real priorities of this Government. For the government assures us that increasing fertility is a priority. And the right attitude towards preschool education can be a test stone for the seriousness of this claim. The State now provides all children with 20% of their share of the price of kindergarten. Social Democrats believe that this share should be raised. We are aware that there are no free kindergartens anywhere in Europe. We also know that the lower price of European kindergartens comes from a different programme, different in scope and content, but that the percentage of child participation is higher. If we are to capture the most developed countries, the increase in the share that the country is contributing to the price must be raised. We should urgently ensure that all children involved in preschool education are provided with at least one winter and a holiday. For example, if the State had taken over the payment of the educational programme, the obligations of the local communities would have been more bearable and would have been easier to cover the subsidy. Although pre-school education is the responsibility of local communities, the state must ensure that quality control is ensured in the future so that children from urban and non-urban backgrounds have a comparable level of education. At the same time, it also shows that there is greater flexibility in the kindergarten program for the wishes and needs of children and parents. We focus mainly on longer working hours of kindergarten. Of course, children must not spend more than 9 hours in kindergarten. In addition, during the second half of the day, they should implement a training programme, not just protection. Half-day, shorter and Saturday programmes should be introduced. We agree with the proposers that reducing the financial burden on child care could also affect the decision to give birth to a child. Above all, we believe that the share in preschool education of the children involved would increase. In this we also see a way to reintegrate parents into the labour market. For we believe that a number of measures have been taken recently to encourage parents to leave the labour market and focus on their families alone. These changes would, however, make it possible to improve the compatibility of work and parenthood. Therefore, in the first reading, we believe that the proposal would be acceptable and in the second reading it would be necessary to upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary with fellow Members, Youth Representatives, Youth Party, Visitors, Members and Members! The party of young Slovenia introduced the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens, where it proposes free kindergartens, free of charge for parents. However, funding should be transferred to the country. It is true that in Slovenia you want or do not want, with demographic policy, that young couples are not ordinary to decide for children and that they are burdened with caring for children even when they go to kindergarten, to school and that paying for kindergarten can also be a problem. Surely it is for all those couples who are employed, one of the first concerns, where with the child, when the maternity leave passes and is needed for work. Many couples face the issue of where to give it and not whether protection will burden the family budget, such as one of the main problems of the Youth Party. Why? There's no place in kindergarten because there's no place in kindergarten. Unfortunately, it's not for all the kids who want to go to kindergarten today. Even though the data show that they included good 60% in the early period and slightly more in the older age. That's the problem. And the other is paying for kindergartens. The educational institutions are under the auspices of the local community. These have a different approach to solving this problem. It must be said that economic prices are also very different from the congregation to the congregation. However, economic prices are high and often incomprehensible, and one wonders how a family can survive on a substantially low income per family member. It is true, however, that the price of protection is subsidised for all children involved in kindergartens. However, payment is extremely social. Some take advantage of it. No one pays 100% of our price. However, everyone who has a child in kindergarten is provided 20% of the subsidy and the rest is based on income and wealth. A few percent of parents don't pay for kindergarten. A third is in the first, second or third grade. In kindergartens where there is not enough room for all applicants, the social aspect is already a priority in reception. Outside, however, are the children of parents who are still employed. Children from socially weak families, single children have priority, which is also right. However, parents who do not get a place for a child in kindergarten are forced to seek other forms of protection. So paying kindergartens can't be the main obstacle to deciding about a child, as the Young Party does. In Novi Slovenije we expected the Young Slovenia Party to come forward before the year or at the beginning of this year, when the Ministry of Education and Sport, on a proposal from municipalities, adopted a regulation which was extremely discriminatory for farm children as well as entrepreneurs. In Novi Slovenija we complained and the Ministry corrected this error. Now, too, this unreasonable article is completely overturned. However, we have not observed once that any of the Youth Party would report that this is the way to deal with farm children, where, when determining the amount of the kindergarten contribution, the cadastral income is accounted for twice and does not take into account the number of children or family members. However, the proportion of rural children involved in kindergarten is the smallest. But in the Young Slovenia Party, it's like they don't belong to this population. And if we go back to not having more than a third of the children involved in kindergarten, because in the early stages, we can also see that there is not always a reason for the lack of space in kindergartens and prices, but also the fact that some parents do not think about putting children in kindergartens because they decide on another form of protection and education. Parents, such as a father or a mother, an old mother, or someone else, take up this role. That's what the proponents have forgotten. Even though many experts believe that the inclusion of children in kindergarten is almost the only way for them to develop mentally and physically smoothly and to acquire sociological practices, we do not think that good parents, older parents who want to have a child at home, should be convinced of the necessity of kindergarten. In Novi Slovenija, however, we would like to say that preschool education is optional and is decided by parents. Some children are also advised by doctors because of their illness, but again they are not useful to third-schoolers because they are not around them or are not adapted to their parents’ workshop. Does anyone wonder how they save the mother's protection and the fathers who work on Saturdays, Sundays, nights, workers until 10:00 p.m. and so on? And how do these parents deal with the problem of protection when children do not operate or fail to care for them? In Novi Slovenija we feel it is good to open a debate on the protection and upbringing of preschool children also on the price and payment of kindergartens. We really think the economic prices of kindergartens are too high. There are few kindergartens, but mostly there are no in the countryside. With free parental care and the inclusion of all children, this capacity would be at least currently significantly inadequate. There's more to it than that. Even if some children were enrolled in kindergarten, they would come in uncertain terms because their parents did not feel the need to drive them every day. This is already happening in parents who do not pay their contributions, who are neither employed nor need to be brought to school at a certain hour and every day. Nevertheless, it is necessary to say that such a department costs, whether they are brought or not. A million or more a month and someone's paying for it after all. Due to the above facts, the proposed law is not acceptable to New Slovenia. But he's good for everyone who has kids, and they don't even think about where they'd be taking all that money from right now. However, in New Slovenia we propose to the Government to consider the appropriateness of both high kindergarten prices and to start thinking about subsidising the protection and upbringing of all children. Even those who are not included in kindergartens. Unfortunately, only children involved in kindergarten are privileged by the State and the local community to pay. At present, marriage does not bring acceptable solutions because for once there is no room for all children in kindergartens because they are not acceptable to all children. We agree, however, that the price and payment should not be the reason why these forms of protection and education should not be used even less in order to prevent the payment of the child's child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable representatives of the government, respected candidates, respected visitors on the balcony, respected colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the number of signatures collected for the proposal to amend the Kindergarten Act is an additional indication that the problem of paying kindergartens is very pressing, that it needs to be addressed with a lot of attention for the needs of children and parents and that so far too little attention has been devoted. We were left to our ingenuity to find the necessary funds to cover the high costs that were incurred in kindergartens. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we drew attention to the problem of financing kindergartens as early as 2002, when some school principals approached us. Then again among the first ones, we drew attention to this pressing problem as soon as January this year, when the amended rules on parental contributions to kindergarten programmes entered into force, or a new Article 4a, which disproportionately increased parental contributions to kindergarten programmes for farmers and independent entrepreneurs. The mayors have been alerted to the unsustainable situation in the financing of kindergartens for many years. We have sought to find the right measure in pricing between the norms and tasks set by the State and the actual means that the State is actually giving to cover the tasks under the jurisdiction of the municipalities. In the current legislation, preschool education, as we know, is defined as a matter of local importance. However, in the framework of this legal definition, its financing, as provided for by the Law on the Financing of the Communities, is also carried out. The amendment of the law proposed foresees that all children will become kindergartens regardless of age and duration of the programme free of charge, which we now find unrealistic and completely unrealistic in the Slovenian People's Party for systemic, organisational and financial reasons. The government is of the opinion that the proposed amendments to the Law on Kindergartens before us cannot be supported because it considers that the law is inadvertent and does not take into account the legal situation of preschool education activities. In the parliamentary group, we find that the drafters of the law refer mainly to inequality before the law. The proposal is based on the conclusion that the share of coverage of costs in kindergartens depends on the income scale or the cadastral income of parents or even the specific criteria set out by each local community for their territory. Otherwise, in schools and universities, and even in the staff of the student homes, the state pays. It is also suggested that the legislator should take into account the specific needs of the youngest and follow the objective of constitutional protection of children in law as well. It refers to a constitutional right which stipulates that children enjoy special protection and care. We agree with them that this article of the Constitution is of utmost importance to the child. This is Article 56 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this article also covers health care, family education and development conditions and other conditions that enable the optimal development of children. This includes pre-school education and education. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the Government or the competent ministry will have to regulate and re-examine the criteria and criteria for determining prices and determining the level of parental contributions. Last but not least, access to kindergartens and, above all, fair and equal pay for the upbringing of preschool children is one of the important factors and incentives for young people to make easier choices for children. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the situation of pre-school children compared with school-bound and school-educated children after nine years of age is not entirely comparable and cannot be regarded as an inequality before the law. However, we are convinced that it is true that both parents and children are unequal if they are not included in kindergarten. There is inequality before the law, in our view, for those children whom parents cannot include in kindergarten for various reasons. Whether it is a distance from kindergarten, whether it is the overcrowding capacity of kindergartens, a poor financial situation and the like, which makes such a family not equal to others because it does not receive public funds to raise its child during the preschool period. However, in our view, the bill before us does not solve these inequalities. A review of pre-school education and education arrangements in other European countries shows that kindergartens are not completely free of charge anywhere. It's about different forms of participation. For example, only food is paid in Italy, and the rest is free. In Sweden, up to a maximum of 29 000 SITs per child, for a second maximum of 19 000, for the third 9 000, regardless of the property of the parents. And let's say the case of France. Parents pay a maximum of 25% of the contribution, the rest 50% of the country and public funds 25%. The transfer of kindergarten funding to the country is also inappropriate in the process of decentralisation. We therefore believe that the problem of financing kindergartens needs to be transferred to the provinces to which this competence and the necessary financial resources should be transferred. However, the opinion of some mayors is not negligible. These opinions are annexed to support only the part of the law which provides that funds for salaries, taxes and contributions and other remuneration of workers are fully provided by the state budget, since only these funds in urban, suburban and both developed and underdeveloped municipalities represent an average of 75% of all costs, kindergarten programmes. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not be supported by the proposed law. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take account of today's debate. It takes note, however, that over 5,000 voters have signed such a bill and are preparing amendments that will provide adequate financial support for parents of preschool children, whether they are involved in kindergarten or not. In our view, it is also imperative to re-examine the criteria that now define their own share of parents for public education programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much for the word and, of course, a nice greeting for me as well. I'm going to start something a little different than all the speakers in front of me, with a thought that says a lot. The whole world becomes more beautiful if the child lives well. It is a thought that I read days ago in the book of Fairytales or the book of Life’s Truths. It is no coincidence that I have chosen this particular sentence to introduce today's debate. We have before us a law that provides for the introduction of free kindergartens in our country and, consequently, a more accessible preschool education for virtually every child. However, the content of the bill before us today is more important than the content of the broader content of the debate that we are about to hold. I hope we can do it. On the one hand, the guidelines were drawn up by the proponents, the Young Slovenia Party and, on the other hand, the Government with a response to the proposal of the law. When we open the issue of free kindergartens, we are actually opening the issue of the needs of our youngest from day-care days to entry into primary school. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's the most sensitive period in every person's life. It has been proven professionally that up to 60% of all abilities are developed by children under 6 years of age. Why am I talking about this? Because I would like to stress how important the country's due concern in the area of pre-school education is. I mean it. I mean it. I mean it. I mean it. Last but not least, the Constitution provides in Article 56 that children enjoy special protection and care and that all have the constitutional right to do so. Article 14 speaks of equality before the law. The programme, which is recorded in the so-called curriculum for educators, follows the expertise in this field. The development of a child is important. It is important that a properly trained expert assists the child in its development. Every child is an individual, personally. Therefore, it is important to treat or raise the child as individually as possible so that the child has the opportunity to develop its potential. Solutions moving away from individual treatment, which happened last time under this government, unfortunately, in the area of caring for children with special needs and obviously also in the area of preschool education. Such solutions are harmful. I claim, and in this respect, there is also a profession behind me. The professional competence of educators and educators is one of the most important in the entire system in the process of pre-school education. The younger he's a kid, the more he's absorbing information from the environment. The kind of information that shapes his personality. After 6 years of age, the child starts loading, laying on this base and is definitively formed. But as I've already said, the first years of every child's life are the most important. This is the basis for its further development. The educator must be a comprehensive expert. Today's findings are that teachers also want more knowledge from psychology, development psychology. More and more children are those children who deviate from the average. They have special needs. Plus, of course, minus the average. There's not enough rhetoric, andragogics. And I am reading a government strategy, not just in the context of that fertility strategy that was withdrawn from government treatment. But I read a strategy or guidelines, if you want to talk, to limit public funds in favour of increasing the number of children in the departments, speak even in favour of reducing educational conditions, educators and educators and assistant educators who even speak in favour of abolishing professional workers who care about supporting basic activities and so on. I ask whether we really need or really want to lower standards in the area of preschool education. Such saving at the expense of children means, last but not least, the deliberate destruction of the generation - the generation that is coming. It means nothing more than one mind. Today, when we talk about educational institutions, we are talking not only about protection, we are talking mainly about the upbringing of children. By means of measures which, as an alternative to increasing access to kindergartens, represent the Government by depriving itself of the education of teachers or educators who are supposed to be too expensive for our country or budget. At least the state or municipal budget, we are taking steps back, steps that are actually returning to the situation once. And when I read some opinions or thoughts, I'm not disappointed, but I'm literally appalled, so let me, I'm not going to mention the authors, I'm just going to mention a serious reminder. I quote, "Our kindergartens are nothing special about quality." It's kind of a golden environment, except for the educational level of baby-breeders, which I don't think they require anywhere so high and it sucks that academically educated women change their diapers even their professional career. 100% disstimulating for them." End of story. I'm not going to continue because I'm sure you've come to the point that I wanted to point out with this sentence or this quote. Anyone who thinks in this direction has no serious intentions or lacks knowledge for such a complex area as preschool education. You know, it's not just the finances that are important, and I stress that saving in the field of children is bad, bad for the whole society. One of the ministers of this government said days ago, "You need to set your priorities clearly." I'm sorry the Minister isn't with us today. But I hope those words come to him. From the public point of view, support for children is at the very top of public goods taxonomy in front of a number of others, which we are now vehemently funding from the state budget. Unfortunately, young people are pushed to the brink of society or social resources, the financial rewards of social resources. So what are the priorities of this society and what are the priorities of this government, I ask? When I read the proposal for a law that provides for a new funding system in the first place, i.e. the transfer of the burdens of parental payments or the budget in local communities to the country, I also read the assumption that the new funding system in 2008 would bring up to 7% higher involvement and an additional 7% in 2009 in both age groups. Among the consequences of the changes to the kindergarten law, authors cite a reduction in the risk associated with funding for the protection of the youngest, making it easier for families to decide for the children and thus increase the birthrate. As a result of the increase in the proportion of children in kindergartens, a higher proportion of children receiving socialisation will be achieved in this very important period for children. And the third time. The return and inclusion of mothers in professional life should also be easier and more appropriate. Undoubtedly, it is possible to attach to all the three anticipated consequences foreseen or cited by the authors of the law. To some extent, I add. If I now touch on the arguments of the Government which are to a large extent pointless and which have also been summarised before me by representatives of government parties in the presentation of views. In fact, the government, with these meaningless arguments, flatly rejects the law's proposal in its entirety. I would like to point out that the proposal for a law has, to a large extent, also been largely supported by the professional public with signatures in administrative units, and it has been confirmed, as we have already heard today, by over 6,000 citizens and citizens. In the first place, I will now focus on the government's opinion. Incomprehensiblely, the government states that it is supposed to be a proposal for a novel shift from decentralisation processes. Decentralisation, at least as far as I understand it, or as far as we understand it in the Slovenian National Party, has been introduced due to the equitable development of the regions in our country, so that we will have, not least in Prekmurje or in Zasavje or in Primorsko, equal opportunities and conditions for development. The centralisation of funding for activities makes it possible for people, including parents from marginal, socially less developed municipalities, to receive equal services, equal opportunities when talking about child education and education. It is about uniting financial conditions and controlling prices and, of course, spending in this context. The proposed way of direct funding by the State budget is also followed by local logic already introduced, it is for the purpose of allocating funds to municipal budgets, which local communities, due to the level of the country's adopted rules, must in one way or another devote to pre-school education. The government further submits that the applicant justifies the amendment of the law by not enjoying equal constitutional concerns of the country vis-à-vis other age groups of children, those attending primary school, secondary schools, music schools and the like. Here I add that in this context of equality it is necessary to include those children, those who are not included in preschool education. The reasons for their absence, the state doesn't really know anything. Even today, by some representatives of coalition parties, we have not actually heard anything serious, for I am speaking in this context. The government further says that the decommissioning of payment for kindergartens for all parents would mean a shift from social justice. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a purely flat-rate and even misleading claim of the government. In which model the government then includes income reform, which burdens exactly the richest layers of the population in our country. Is that social justice? Discharge of payment for kindergartens would also lead to higher demand for kindergarten capacity. That's what the government says. I add, is this not in line with the aspirations and whether this is not the way that can lead to quality coordination between the family on the one hand and, of course, career on the other, which should be, as far as I read various government laws, strategies, proposals, not least, the goal of the Government - coordination between professional and family life. I stress that quality is first of all important here. As regards the Government's conclusion that other countries do not have free kindergartens, I will repeat in a new international comparison. Gardens are undoubtedly free, and from the third year forward for a full day of work, this is written in the amendment of the law, it is an international comparison. France and Italy are mentioned among the countries. But it is true that perhaps kindergartens are not free of charge for all forms. In some cases, pre-school education is extended to extra-standard private protection, and protection through normal working hours is also extra-payable. Excuse me, I'll finish. The government claims that the curriculum for kindergartens is not an educational document. In the Republic of Slovenia, the profession has put forward quite a constructive work and effort to form a quality curriculum, which was adopted at the 26th meeting of the Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia for General Education in 1999. As stated on the website of the Ministry of Education and Sport, I quote: "on the educational process and on the full interaction and experience from which the child learns." The child learns from the first day ahead when he is born. And I've already mentioned, these are the expertise to teach the child the most in the first six years of his life. That's when his foundation is built. With some simple facts, it can be found that statistics, as Mrs Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sport has stated, are largely misleading, too general, and the government's arguments are too flat and forceful, I stress once again, the force is misleading. The average Slovenian family - it is a family where parents have average Slovenian salaries and, say, two children - does not pay the amounts, as stated in the Government's opinion, but much higher amounts. 40 and 50% of the economic price, which totals over 20% of the family budget. We were able to read, three stories were published in the Finance Journal, which shows what the data provided by the State on the one hand is and what is unfortunately the reality. The average Slovenian family, which has preschool children in kindergarten, is the highest burden given the simulations performed with the costs of preschool education. In particular, government statistics are distorted and useless because they do not know and actually do not say anything, as I have already said today, about the reasons that almost 40% of children, children, are not included in preschool education. Whether this is, once again, a social justice system or the system that we really want in our society. Undoubtedly, this will be one of the most substantive sentences I will make in the context of the presentation of the Slovenian National Party Group's position. Access to pre-school education must not and cannot be based on the reduction of educational conditions, on the increase in the number of children in the wards, in short, on the overall reduction of standards. In this respect, we also support the position taken by the proposers, which, last but not least, state that they will also advocate for the maintenance and improvement of standards of protection in the future. In this context, I am adding the "training" of preschool children, as well as the standards of those who care for our children. I fear that the changes they are planning at the Ministry of Education will take place because, as it may be read and as it has been heard, they do not support this proposal in this direction in order to make kindergartens more accessible to citizens and citizens or children, of course parents, on the basis of lowering standards in kindergartens. For if the number of children per group will increase and if standards or professional education of those who care for children will really fall for the upbringing of our children, then this means nothing more than lowering standards at the expense of the quality of preschool education and, if you want, education. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we support the amendment of the law which provides funds for salaries, taxes and contributions in the budget. This financial burden in a socially weaker environment represents as much as 75% of the total cost of the kindergarten programme. From this point of view, we will also support that the law remains under consideration. As you probably know, dear colleagues and colleagues, the second treatment allows for the amendment of the law, after all. And if, after all, the purpose of this government and coalition parties were to be serious, they would support and amend or upgrade the law in the first, that is, the general treatment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u73	Please don't disturb the debate. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. He's not here. Bostian Zagorac. He's not here. Robert Croat. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! In assessing the situation, the applicants assume that kindergarten is an educational and educational institution, as well as a school, a secondary school, etc. It is true that quality curriculums include kindergartens, schools, secondary schools, but schools also have knowledge standards. Standards of knowledge, which means grades from 1 to 5 etc., and the elements for advancing from class to class, advancing from school forward, which is not in kindergarten, so I think it would be better to take as a starting point that kindergarten is a educational institution. Children in kindergarten are informally educated through a game without grades, and this is only part of the lifelong learning process. Probably all of us are for kindergartens in Slovenia to be free. There is probably no one to oppose this, but let's face it, no country in Europe knows this to the extent suggested by the Youth Party. The system we have today in Slovenia is certainly not ideal, it is not the best. The parishioners point to a situation that is not good, since in the past, in my opinion, decisions on how to finance kindergartens were negotiated without or with little emphasis on the opinion of the municipalities. Another aspect needs to be highlighted here: free places for children to be involved in kindergartens. I come from a congregation where, for example, about 150 children are rejected because there is not enough free capacity. And I think that's one of the big problems we're facing. Applicants propose free kindergarten, but it must be said that parents in Slovenia pay on the basis of an eight-step scale; and one third of them pay the minimum costs of kindergartens and 6% are completely free. Also involved in kindergartens where we are talking about numbers that are supposed to be quite low, that few children in Slovenia are included in kindergartens are not enough. I agree that it is not enough, but it is still comparable to European countries. In the first age period, over 45 per cent, which means we are somewhere on top of Europe. Another age group, more than 80 percent, which also places us on some average and does not step in one direction or the other. We must come from some point of view that the resources in the budget are limited. We are probably all aware of this, and it follows that when the proposal of the Youth Party is adopted, exactly what colleague Tavševa said should happen, increase the number of children in kindergartens, in departments, reduce the educational conditions of teachers, assistants, abolish professional workers, abolish kitchens in kindergartens, etc. because the budget is not bottomless, we must be aware of this and come out of it. And it's probably not our intention to do that. Our aim must be to maintain quality and rationalize the functioning of kindergartens. I believe that the Government, as it has already announced, will shortly draft a new law on kindergartens, which will ensure greater inclusion of children in kindergartens and complement the funding system. For all these reasons, as I have said so far, I simply cannot support any proposal for a law that is pure utopia and is unrealistic. I believe that the government will bring to the table a short marriage that will correct the things that you have pointed out today from all the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the idea of free kindergartens itself is, of course, a very nice idea and it's probably very close to all of us who have children and who know the problems of child protection. And, of course, as parents, we are difficult against the proposal of such a law. At the same time, I am aware that its implementation requires a high increase in public expenditure. This is why, in particular, the National Assembly, as a body, must nevertheless take into account the art of the possible, before the dilemma of what to do in this case, whether it is an opposition or a government coalition, because we have some responsibility before society as a whole, because it is the spillage of the tax revenues that we all pay, but for the benefit of one group of people, regardless of the fact that it is here for generations that later move into a period when they pay for others. The fact is, however, that the demographic situation in our country is such that we should think about how the government should think about how to encourage young people to decide to have more children. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to some of the problems that arise, or I will say, to the advantages that this proposed law has in it. I believe that the complete cessation of payment of care in kindergartens is not only an illusion or perhaps a very far-reaching goal, but, above all, a transition to a period when kindergartens should become compulsory, as is compulsory primary school. I believe from experience that I have throughout my life that kindergarten is sure, as Mrs Žgajner Tavš has already said, that children are developing extremely rapidly during this period, so that the impact of education given to children in kindergartens is extremely large on the rate of their development, which is still the result of the socialisation of children; and this in both social groups. You could say, from the extreme social groups that come to kindergartens, so those who belong to a group of children for whom parents pay nothing, to those groups of children where parents pay 20% of the economic price. I would like to say that both need socialisation from a very early age, especially because egalitarianism is certainly the most pronounced in kindergartens. In school, the goal of achieving egalitarianism is more difficult to achieve than in kindergarten, where children do not yet perceive social differences, especially because in kindergartens they are not only treated by teachers, but also by behaviour, behaviour and so on, what is going on in kindergartens is not yet perceived by social differences. I think it is possible here to count on this positive impact if kindergartens become compulsory for all children. However, I would like to say that the proposal for a law should, however, reflect on two important elements: that they imagined that the whole, i.e. all the funds for child protection, would come directly from the State budget. Of course, I am clearly opposed to that. I believe that the responsibility and competence of the municipalities to finance child care is not only an obligation but also a right. In this way, contact between the local community and parents, of course, has an interest in ensuring that kindergartens are as orderly as possible, as friendly and as pleasant for children as possible and beyond that for parents as possible, rather than for the country to regulate upside down to regulate, in particular through the financing of kindergarten management. The lack of resources, in so far as free kindergarten is concerned, should be provided by the State by increasing resources for municipalities from the state budget, in one way or another, before the doors of 1 January, the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which has given rise to a novelty, namely that the municipalities are no longer independently financed, but receive funds in 45-year-round, in full except for compensation for the use of building land and other fines that they obtain from their own resources. It is said that the funds that the state will give each week could be increased by as much as necessary to allow the municipalities themselves to fully finance child care. The second thing I think is important because we could achieve a better goal in such a way that the funds that the congregation fully covers, that is, 20% of the economic price, gradually increase. So 30%, 40%, and maybe then we would stop at some amount, because what's free for an individual is usually less valuable than what needs to be paid at least partially. This is an experience that we have seen many times in practice, and I think that at least food should be paid by parents for children, except of course those who are not financially strong enough to cover it. I hope nothing too much, I regret that this law, despite possible improvements, was adopted, would suggest that the Government, which is looking forward to amending the Kindergarten Act, would consider this possibility that it would provide municipalities with an additional resource so that they could provide 30% of the covered economic price so that those parents who pay full care in kindergarten would pay 70% instead of 80% and perhaps then gradually reduce their share there to 50%. This means, of course, that the scale could be preserved, but it could be reduced substantially by the amount discussed. These ideas, I think, would not be too much, in that, of course, I must say that the ideas already presented in the strategy for increasing fertility are that the level of education of educators, the number of children per group and other criteria, the other norms that we have in kindergartens would lower. I would suggest to the Government that there is no way in which such a bill will come to the National Assembly because I believe that in this case the fight will be very severe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is certainly no single answer to the proposal 'free kindergartens - yes or no'. The proposal has its advantages, but it also has a number of dilemmas that it opens, but it is likely that at a time when we are talking about prosperity in Slovenia, at a time when it has never been so good in Slovenia, at a time when there is probably enough funding in the budget for any other educational intervention as well as in preschool education, we are thinking that perhaps now it is time to think about bringing kindergartens closer to the users, in a way that they would be free of charge or that they would be substantially cheaper than they are at this point. Many of us have been reminded in the past of mistakes that happen despite saying that funding is arranged in a way that is fair to those who live at a minimum somewhere, as it is fair to those who have much more resources, because we have groups where parents are allocated according to income and depending on how they pay. The point to the applicants is that in this case they take the poor and give to the rich, of course they don't, because in this case they wouldn't take anyone, they would give it to everyone. They are primarily given to children in such a way that they can raise their participation in kindergartens, so more children would go to kindergarten. This pre-school period is also very important for education, including for part of education. That is why I am very close to the proposal, which was also put forward on behalf of the Social Democrats, mag. Spending said that it would be useful to think about how the country would take care of the education process, including financially. Therefore, in order to finance the educational process from the State budget in order to provide for the remainder, this means that the protection of children will be provided by the local community in one particular part. This would allow for the release of part of the funds currently allocated to local communities for the salaries of employees in these institutions in a way that could also raise standards in these schools, so that kindergartens are better equipped and that they can also invest in the buildings themselves. Parents have commented that the equipment in kindergartens is poor, that it is obsolete, that the facilities are long-term; and in this way they could solve these matters. I think it is necessary to seriously consider the proposal of the Young Slovenia Party. Take seriously the way to allow debate in this National Assembly by allowing this law to continue today to be given by the President to the labour force, that is to say, where the substantive debate falls under the new Rules of Procedure, and there will be a place and also a time to exchange opinions, both professional and political. And there will also be time to form a law so that it will actually be feasible in practice. You know, these excuses to the government all the time that it is just before they put their law into the procedure, that we have everything ready to have a better marriage, and that this law will solve all the problems that the proponents are alerting to right now, after all the years I have spent in this House, is actually unrealistic. In fact, this means avoiding anyone else outside the government, outside the government, being able to draw up a proposal that is better or that is even better, because at this point in time there is no other one in the procedure. And so on these excuses "we will prepare a better one, we will put it, it is just before the procedure, the product is almost finished," I no longer agree to these excuses in this House and therefore personally do not oppose the law proposed by the Party of Young Slovenia, especially because it will allow us to discuss this law seriously in the future. Although I personally believe that those who have income above certain heights have talked about it and I agree with his comment that they are paying or paying a certain part, let us take care of those who are justified. But it's time for a substantive debate. After this Rules of Procedure, there is a substantive debate on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you very much again for your word. I will not repeat, according to my assessment of the important facts which I have highlighted when presenting the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. However, in this part, I may be referring to the performance of a colleague in front of me or colleagues in front of me. It seems important to me that today we have heard that it is actually possible to talk about primary school and a different system in primary schools, because we have knowledge standards there. That's an estimate. Now I don't know if I understood or didn't understand the point that the speaker wanted to say with that sentence. I would also remind him of all those who think in the same way or in the same way. Just because the assessments are not actually a real indicator of the knowledge or ability of each individual, our system has come to a descriptive assessment of knowledge from first to third grade. We have also talked about this, and we have also changed this matter within the framework of a law that talks about the system of education in primary school. Education is the most important part of the lifelong educational system. Yes, education is the most important period in the entire process of lifelong education or learning. That is why it is so important that the Government, when it comes to making changes in this area, will make changes that go forward, not backward, but, above all, must be guided by quality. I have not mentioned without reference the fear that the Government will make changes in the area of accessibility to preschool education by, I don't know, increasing the number of children per group or educator, an expert, because this will mean that the state or local community or the parent will save five, ten thousand tolars per month. These were the aspirations of this government no longer recorded, and given that the government has just before the present is prepared a law to put into Parliament, I ask, will this matter thus be included in the government's proposal for a law, a new law on kindergartens? Last but not least, the educational structure of the educators I am curious about, and these were also government aspirations to be educators because they have a high professional education, which is too expensive for our country. Because it doesn't matter that they have an academic education to keep an eye on the little ones. It's not just about protection, what's more important is education within socialisation if you want. For more than 8 hours, parents work 8, 10, 12 hours a day, children are left to the care and education of institutions or institutions. One of the concerns of this Government, which I have also observed, was that changes should also take place in the context of home protection or education, and this is one of the important issues I am asking the Ministry's representatives. Protection and education at home by granting concessions. Is the government thinking in this direction? For this could be very, very bad, and I will give only in the case of the foster system in our country, which the Government does not actually have an examination and very bad things are happening, harmful things are also happening in the context of the upbringing of those children who are put into foster care, unfortunately. In my presentation, I mentioned three stories that were published months ago in the Finance Journal. Let me read one, I still have so much time. This is a story written by life and unfortunately moving away from statistics promoted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Education and Sport. Stefka and Loyze are pharmacists and programmers, both with a degree and have two children in kindergarten. They earn about 610 thousand dollars a month gross and are on the upper edge of the 6th grade for the children's allowance and the 4th grade for the payment of kindergarten. Loizet is offered a promotion and a raise of 10,000 dollars gross. It is calculated that it would thus lose 2,950 tolars in children's allowances and 17,368 tolars in the payment of kindergarten fees, and would obtain only 5,220 Slovenian tolars in the case of higher net salary. So because of his progress, the family budget is at a lower price of 15,098 tolars. What do you do? Loyze accepts a more responsible job and asks that his salaries not be increased; when his salary is raised, the country with all budgets and institutions would be better off for 2950 tolars in children's allowance, 17368 in kindergarten payments, 4780 in employee contributions and income, 1,910 tolars in employer's contributions and tax on paid salaries. So, the state would have more tolerable due to Loizet's more responsible share of 27,008 tolars. Loize and Štefka are 15,098 tolars less and employers 11,910 tolars less per month. This is reality, these are the numbers that people meet with every day. And another piece of information. In a recent analysis, which was carried out in the course of the debate on the fertility strategy, data, data obtained from public surveys, analyses were published in the Republic of Slovenia. More than 30% of parents would prefer to have another child, if they had an adequate financial situation, where, of course, access is easier or cheaper. And those who say today that finances are not important are important, how important they are, because finances need to be spent monthly. I'll finish, and then I won't even answer. Once again, it is a reminder that it is only and only the first to consider the general debate and that it is possible to correct the law in the course of further examinations on the home labour body with amendments. In fact, even in the Slovenian National Party, we do not agree with any of the solutions set out in this proposal for a novel law on kindergartens. It is a novelty of the law on kindergartens, not a novelty of the law on free kindergartens, so such deception is groundless. As long as the marriage persists, but I'm afraid that listening to the government coalition isn't going to fail, it would make sense and good sense with the amendments to fix it. But unfortunately, I hope that at least in the end, by the government representative, I will get answers to the questions I have asked and which are still important to me in the broad scope of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you. Let me remind you, although the Government and the proposer are listed at the end of the list of speakers, they may be included at any time in the debate within their time available to them. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We are talking about one very important topic here today, namely the protection of children, which is getting smaller and smaller in our society. And this will make the problem that we are dealing with today less and less, but the problem of Slovenia will increase. I went alone with my three daughters over their most serious years, and I must say that I was happy to have had the opportunity to put them in kindergarten, because child neglect, if you don’t know where you can give your child when you have to go to work, can be a very heavy burden on your parents. And during that period, the kindergartens were still relatively full, and that fear was also over me. It was said earlier, if the government is thinking about home protection, God forbid, it's something bad. That's when I enrolled the kid in kindergarten, but he didn't go to kindergarten, but he got family protection through kindergarten. I have to say, from the beginning, when I was aware of this, I was looking at it a little bit strange and thinking, but what is it that my child shouldn't have been in kindergarten? But after the first week, I realized the great advantage that I had gained from having a child through kindergarten in family care, because I am sure that at least in particular, in this family protection where I had my children, many benefits, many benefits that have contributed greatly to the growth of these children in their youth development, even though I was extremely satisfied in the coming years with my work in kindergarten and I have to commend this institution for the care, upbringing and education of the children it carries out. But even though I was so happy with kindergarten, whenever it happened that I stayed at home, even under some obligation at home, I preferred to keep the child at home, i.e. for my own and the child's benefit, especially by being able to maintain a little more genuine contact with him, because this absence of 8 to 10 hours every day is not good for me and was not good for the children. And this proposal put forward by the Youth Party, I must say that it gave me one optimism somewhere first, because I thought it was right that the Young Party was, above all, the one that had to make sure that this area of child protection would go in the right direction. And after examining their proposal to essentially be free of charge for all those involved in this protection, I have found on my own that I will probably not be able to support this proposal primarily out of social justice. I am sure, and even when I met all my parents, when we took the children to kindergarten, that for a lot of people this cost was a very heavy burden. Thank God, it wasn't so much a burden for me that I couldn't handle it. And I must say, I was happy to pay for this nursery. However, I understood all those parents who were then hustling over prices and who were particularly aware of the abuses that were taking place at the time - I don't know, I have to say that now I don't follow this much - because when parents knew each other and knew that it was completely normal families, but they were using this social assistance and applying themselves, even though they were living together, they had two children, but it was obviously just abuse. And when I thought about this proposal, I found myself somewhere to be quick to submit to it, and I would say, yes, how "fine" I won't have to pay, even though I can pay. I must say that I am very opposed to the principles of abuse, and therefore I simply do not see the need for a kindergarten to be free for all children. However, I see a very high need for certain layers of parental stress that these levels of non-payment and underpayment need to be raised. I do not agree with the fact that everyone would be allowed a free kindergarten. Because I also look at other segments of the youth population, where I think it would be necessary for us as a community to take certain steps forward. We also know that primary school, although we are officially talking about free, requires a lot of funding from parents and is similar in secondary schools. I'm gonna point out one problem I've been seeing lately. We have arranged meals in kindergartens, meals are arranged in primary school, we have a student diet arranged and the worst meals are currently regulated in secondary schools. Maybe I'm taking things back from my local environment, where the big center of high school is completely out of order, even though there are mostly those students who do a parallel music school, so to speak, every day from morning to evening, and they don't have an orderly diet. And such matters from the youth population are certainly many more that need to be done. So, I do not support this proposal, but I am immediately in favour of changing and raising those rates of payment for kindergartens, so that those with low personal incomes will be able to better integrate children into protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u83	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I would have a procedural proposal, which relates mainly to the Ministry's representative. I ask, given that the questions have been raised, and given that the President of the National Assembly has also pointed out that at any time during the debate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could be involved in the debate, so that the State Secretary would answer my three questions, as this would undoubtedly make the whole debate more qualitative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are aware of how and when the government representative can speak. He'll probably tell him when he wants to. Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all present, respected colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would say that I consider this proposal to be a good enough and meaningful provocation for the government and for the ministry, to take a thorough look at the amendment of the kindergarten law and adapt it to the current situation and situation, of course in Slovenia. I would therefore suggest that, as a majority in this National Assembly, we go through this first reading and prepare ourselves together with the Government for a second reading. I will discuss my own position because I have some concrete experience in working, not in the field of child protection, but in communication with this institution. I have 15 years of experience in a previous system called mindlessness, and I have ten years of experience in this system called polygamy or in times of madness. That is to say, for 25 years, I have met with an institution every day and, of course, with people who worked and work in this institution today. I must say that my experience is positive and that from year to year the standard and level of the subsystem, the educational system has always been at a higher level. And I am saying this because after I comment on some of the answers given by the Government, why it does not support this proposal, I would like to place on my heart the representatives of the Government and the Ministry not to lower them with some of the cynical positions that are written in this response, this standard or this level of this kindergarten. Let's do it in a row. First of all, the argument that the proposal is unrealistic and unreal. This is a classic standard of knowledge, a high ethical standard of this government in cases where, of course, someone else comes with their proposal. When the government comes forward with its proposal, this standard is very simple and always the same for two years. The proposal needs to be adopted urgently because it is a matter of alignment with European directives, standards and so on, despite whether the proposal is realistic in terms of the reality and the situation. I don't think there are many things that are unrealistic and unreal. The question is, above all, how you are in society, we are setting priorities for the country. And it is obvious that if the government or the ministry writes down this position, then of course the issue, I will not say the problem, but young people in this society are not at the top of this priority scale and I simply disagree with such priorities. Secondly, I must say that a person smiles nicely when he reads the argument that the proposal means a shift from decentralisation and that the applicants are obviously introducing a larger model of centralisation and that preschool education is only of local importance. In doing so, the argument on government paper applies the new Law on Community Financing. Please. We had a month ago when we were just talking about this, that the new Law on Community Financing is a re-centralisation and that this is a basic observation and obviously the Ministry of Local Self-Government, there is no other source in the government that has been alerted that this law is primarily directed towards greater centralisation. Finally, the most cynical and unacceptable argument by the Government, which is written down at this second stop, is more below, because public funds are limited, the only option would be to introduce the changed conditions of operation of kindergartens, such as an increase in the number of children in wards, a reduction in the educational conditions of educators and assistants of educators, the abolition of professional workers who are now in charge of supporting basic activities, the abolition of kitchens in kindergartens, etc. I'm asking if you really meant it here when you wrote this paragraph. For if you are serious, then I am serious too, and I suggest that the Government, given that public funds are limited, cancels all the privileges it enjoys as soon as possible. The whole government, ministers, secretary of state and all to return to expensive political-tourism travel abroad, to return to unnecessary diaries, to comply with unnecessary external orders from outside and to use public funds to do so, until then, you're getting planes to get floors, etc., because I still think that the young generation is before that, and I'm not listing everyone else. And in the end, it's about statistics and financial resources and this money. Take today's Finance and you'll read it. Slovenia is in the lower part of the share of gross social product allocated to the social sector, which is purely on the tail of the European Union countries. And what's even more worrisome, but the last is when it comes to the standard of purchasing power, but for Spain it's the last. And to tell you the percentages, 24.6 in Slovenia, the average in the European Union is 28% and the average in the countries of Europe, including those outside the Union, is 25.9. Please don't put me here to create demagogies about the social state with regard to the enlargement of the social state, etc. Finally, because I listened to the previous point on spatial construction today, and I thought of one such parable for young people, and perhaps the government and the ministry as to how to help young people in the three stages of society. The first phase is fundamental and we agree that this is a very important phase, because on these foundations lies the future building of houses, this preschool education, what we are talking about today. The second phase is the upgrade to the attic. It's about building walls covered in roofs. Here is a very important static, stability and, of course, that the rain does not stop and that the snow does not go into the building. And the third phase is interior equipment and at this second stage is the educational process until the end of college and the third stage is the internal equipment. Here, each of us can freely find his own way of creating a family, looking for his first job, etc. Here we leave freedom and we do not need to help these young people so much, but the first two stages are very important if we want this third phase to be effective and we will all be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms State Secretary Dr Alenka Svertz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say briefly that there is no debate here today on the government proposal and on the government's starting points that we are preparing to amend the law. However, I would only add to Mrs Barbara Tavš's debate, so much so that the questions she has opened are certainly of the utmost importance, what decisions are then to be taken and new solutions to the law. On the other hand, I would like to point out that any changes that are also being made in the area of preschool education must also be coordinated in public debate or in a transitional manner with the community and the association of the congregations, since the founding municipalities and our law oblige us to coordinate with them. I believe that they will also go to a broader public debate, and you will be familiar with them when they are ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I would continue where Mr Kontić, with, probably, a mocking tone, mentioned that we have good economic growth, that the situation in Slovenia is good. I also attach to this, and in fact, in Slovenia the current situation is one we have not had since independence and all the macro-economic indicators show that the economic situation is good. However, this does not mean that it is necessary to seek solutions, or to adopt solutions based on such indicators that would not contribute to those expected effects, and this is the law proposed by the SMS, which we can certainly include in this. Here I would also comment on my colleague Kumra's statements on those tables that are in the Finance magazine. Whether this is the right data or not, it is also possible to debate, but not least, let's say that the right data is certainly not the result of the work of this government, but the result of all the work of this period, and it is important that these results improve and this is certainly present in Slovenia. The level of social security is higher from year to year. And now pointing to some absolute indicators is certainly not correct. Now, on the very subject of the Free Kindergarten Act. It would be difficult for me here to convince anyone that it was not the key purpose of the applicants, in particular the use of a pre-election period. We know that local elections have been an excellent opportunity for such a topic to be made public, that there has been an attempt to expand this topic in public a little while longer, and as a result this law, which we now have in our consideration. I also share the view that such an idea is not even bad, about free kindergartens, but not literally. A free daycare course is certainly not a way to promote both fertility and some social justice. For families with incomes and incomes large enough would certainly give free kindergartens an opportunity to those who have these incomes barely to survive. Here it is necessary to seek solutions primarily in a way that allows such families social transfers, so that that part of the participation for payment of kindergartens can also contribute. Why are kindergartens expensive? This is a matter that could be discussed in depth and if we look at 15, 20 years ago what the situation in kindergartens was and today we see that a lot has changed, but it would be difficult to establish that the recovery of these changes is much better. I come out alone or I come out of my own case, I have three children. The first one was attended by kindergarten at a time when it was actually necessary to be lucky that he could come to kindergarten, meaning that all the capacities were extremely perfect, meaning that the groups were large. The level of those teachers or professional associates has certainly been lower than today, and I would have found it difficult to argue here, but then, after school, some level or knowledge or socialization of the child was somewhat lower than those who come later or come today. I'd hardly say that. And now about those who are not required or that it would actually be extremely harmful to reduce the level of professionalism of those in kindergarten who work with children on a daily basis. Here we must be aware that a small child is certainly intellectual at some level of development and also the ability to absorb the knowledge that he is given and that it is difficult to say now that he is an expert who is significantly more educated, as far as the level of expertise is concerned, that he will actually be able to absorb great levels of knowledge compared to the knowledge that he can give him, let alone the fifth or sixth degree of education. That would be hard for me to believe. And as a result of the fact that we have such educated structures in our kindergartens, it is likely to look elsewhere, perhaps it was purposefully built into this, that the school system was expanded in this way for the education of such educators, that there might also be a possibility of education for teachers and when they were trained they had to pay more, even though they were doing exactly the same work as they did before. So here, as far as this is concerned, it would be valid to actually think carefully about whether things would not be worth optimising to some extent. I also encounter the problem of kindergartens from the local environment and we know that in kindergartens there are also solutions, due to delays, because of diseases and others not optimal or there is always 20% incompleteness, and here it would be possible to look for solutions, but in this way this descriptive quota is slightly increased at the expense of then, due to these absences, which are daily, then also some things lead to that 100% standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you. I would say that I believe this information, but I would add my information. Over the past 2 years, after statistics that we have been making, the laws that we have adopted in this National Assembly, which the Government is implementing, will reduce the social security expenditure by 1.6% if this plus would be 26.2% and we would have an average of 26.2%.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. Different payment classes allow all parents who have an equivalent position in kindergarten, these are facts, we know that. With the proposal proposed by the Party of Young Slovenia, however, despite the fact that you wanted to deny at the presentation that in fact those who pay the smallest sums would be deprived of it. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] acquired by those who pay the maximum or those who are classified in the high pay grade. [[..]] See that this law will improve the demographic situation in Slovenia, I have great concerns or doubts about this. If we do not know how to set or distribute certain values that have graced us in the past, surely no law will help us to increase our fertility or improve our demographic condition. I'm going to point out something, I'm going to say, more harsh facts that we're dealing with. You know, we're already, we all know that 20 and 30 years ago, or more years ago, in Slovenia, twice as many children were born as today. We were proud to admire old fathers, old mothers, walking with their grandchildren. Today old fathers, old mothers walk with their pets. I have to say, a lot of families give more to maintenance than kindergarten. Look, I think a few months ago, I got a call from a young mom in Rogatco, thanks to the mayor, for the 20,000 tolars you gave me at the birth of the third child. Somehow, I barely told her it wasn't the mayor's money, but we took a decision on the municipal council to give this child 20,000 dollars at the birth of a child. Finally, she found out for herself and told him that she was most happy that she was a third child and that I would not be alone in my old age. But I have to say what I later experienced when I arrived at the congregation headquarters, and I went to look at it, because a business report had just been prepared, by the current month, and what we give for newborns, and I found a certain figure, a certain amount of funds. You know what else I found out, but we give more to the newborns for which it is prescribed, dog shelter. Again, I wonder, or I'd say so, but there's just something wrong with us. And I remember very well my colleague Drobnič, who, as Minister, talked many times about the joy of life here. Some of you mocked or ironically accompanied his sentence. To conclude, I certainly do not believe that this is a solution, what you are proposing by this law, that the demographic situation in Slovenia will improve, so I will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u96	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear fellows and fellows! I think the law in this treatment needs to be supported. The reason for this is more, about many of you, in fact all of you, including those who said that you would not support the law or further treatment, you have however strung so many positive elements, these constituents, that I can put them on this scale without shame and, of course, I will support that the law or the possibility of kindergartens paid by the State should not be free to discuss further. I think that there is little debate in this National Assembly and that this leads to tension in recent readings and, of course, more complex matters. See, it usually begins as it does today, knowing that the government has somewhere in its hidden drawers, hidden proposals that we don't know anything about, except that they will be better. Then, on the basis of this, anyone else's proposal is rejected because it is not properly signed because the Government has not had the first word, and when this is voted out and asked the ministers different questions, then we are not discussing the incomplete answers of ministers again, so that in the end only the interpretation remains, and then we are talking about everything that should have been discussed earlier. That's why I think it's good that the law goes forward in the procedure, whenever anyone thinks he's complacent, that he's useless, that he's just delusional, etc. After all, this proposal is followed by many signatures of citizens and mostly of those citizens who see the problem of paying for preschool education. True, the government says it's payable all over the world, but there's a difference in how much it pays. Look at Sweden, and you'll see, three, two, one, I think it's a principle. But if you go to the hallway there to ask, in the hallway, you don't have to go far, you don't have to go all over Ljubljana, and ask one of the guards how much she pays, you'll be 150 000 per house has wages, 50,000 gives for kindergarten. [[...]] This is our relationship. And these things need to be reduced. The second thing that is just as important, of course, is the promised lowering of standards, lowering of education. Here we have heard that little children do not need their educators to know much. This is, of course, great nonsense, because it is not just about learning and it is not about selling teaching and methodical skills, but it is about using them, and it is clear that people who have more children in front of them must control something other than knowing what parents know. Preschool education is certainly very important because it provides the basis, however, in those basic years. At that time, children in some way decide, not what they will be in life, but what they will be in life. That's where the basic decisions are. You can ask those who are dealing with this professionally who measure this, who recognize it, and who then check these matters to see if they are real. You don't have to believe me. At this point our kindergartens are certainly comparable to Europeans, comparable in that they are also better, but this is not the result of the work of these two years of the government or of previous governments, but it is a process that has been going on since the mid-50s. At this point, the state must probably make sure that it doesn't destroy everything. And since the state is currently carrying out this government, it is clear that this task is on this government. Of course, a change in payment would certainly stimulate young people to make early decisions about their children. After all, they also learned from their parents that many times what family costs they represented and, of course, now count on old parents to not lead their pets around anymore, but to take care of their grandchildren is naive, all the old parents have to work now and work even longer, not just this law, it is all legislation that changes, all the obligations that are added to people. Old parents will work long hours, perhaps they will be able to look after their grandchildren, and they will certainly not be able to care for their grandchildren. With all the legislation, parents will be working and all the stories about flexibility, and I don't know what else to go to work for half a day, and the other half will be looking for a backup job if they lose it if it gets dry. Most people have been working all day, and it is clear that this is why they are late or not deciding for their children at all. We can't just watch one marriage, we can't watch everything we do. However, this proposal, which has been tabled by the Parliament of the Party of Young Slovenia, is worthy of consideration and needs to be given a good look at and discussed. And today it's still going on. I think it would be reckless and rude to say no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! Representatives of the candidates, I'm going to take a little more time because of my colleagues. Somehow there was a similar system in one mind, not all of them were given the opportunity to go to kindergarten, and they had to be paid at the time. Now, in madness, the cost of protecting children under a similar system, says they cannot all go back to kindergarten and still have to be paid, the cost of these children is significantly higher. They didn't have union problems and they didn't have such bad standards, they didn't know what a hasap was, we all know that today, and that's the facts. For almost 10 years, I have been monitoring the movement of costs that municipalities have with that part of the prices of kindergarten programmes that they have to replace, and these costs have somehow increased by three times in eight years, representing almost one-fifth to one-quarter of the total costs that the municipalities allocate from their budgets, huge amounts. So the congregations are quite excited about the thinking that we have so that preschool education is really similar to compulsory primary education, which is necessary to continue education and also to get a job, so that it can be transferred to the country and the municipalities are willing to give up the work of income, let's say 10% or even more. This would also in some way equate the differences between those parts in Slovenia that are richer and pay more taxes, but these taxes would also be applied to those parts that are poorer and do not have these options. The problem of providing kindergarten education for all children is severe and great. And I think it's almost impossible or we could just somehow introduce equality in a way that, even this proposal circulates [[?]] that every child under the age of 6 would receive a monthly amount, each child, not only the one who is in kindergarten, including the one who is at home with the parents, the grandmother, the grandfather and so on. This part of the education in contact with its parents, the old scarecrows is also an important part of preschool education, and it is important that children socialize and meet their peers not only in the yard, in the playground, but also in kindergarten in the sense of preschool education. So it would be necessary to think that way. I am certainly warming up to bring preschool education in a similar way as compulsory primary education to the level of the country, and free kindergarten means for all parents then a system-coordinated approach, if this is how they choose from tax policy to other elements, measures that are necessary if they want to achieve such an ideal objective. It is always necessary to take or save money somewhere and in this way allow such an approach. Certainly in the current state, it would be a great step forward for the state to assume these commitments and gradually make it easier for parents and all parents to bear the financial burden they have with pre-school education, not to speak with the other elements. So that would somehow be my recommendation in this debate. I believe, however, that the Government here is the one who can make a coherent, comprehensive, integrated proposal for a law that is likely to follow a strategy that we are discussing here and is now in the Government to select and identify and propose then in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished representative of the Party of Young Slovenia, colleague and colleagues! The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergarten encouraged many discussions in the Slovenian space, of course also positive, and in this regard it goes on to welcome the initiative of the Party of Young Slovenia. Although the proposed solution is unique in the EU, it is attractive and people would support it. However, if we stand on the side of the realtor, then we stop when we ask "Let the government provide 80 billion for 2008 and let the government provide 90 billion for 2009." If I am reading an analysis of the system of financing pre-school education in some EU countries of our Institute for Economic Research, I quote: "If we compare the actual payment of parents for pre-school education of two children in OECD countries and in Slovenia for selected family types, we can find that this payment in Slovenia represents a lower share of the gross wage of the average producer than on average in the OECD countries. Similarly, we can find out by comparing the actual payments paid by parents for the preschool education of two children, as a proportion of the net family income." On the basis of these calculations, it could be concluded that pre-school education in Slovenia is cheap, which is contrary to the conclusion that according to the highest payment of parents for pre-school education Slovenia is one of the countries where pre-school education is the most expensive. In this I would like to say that the situation in Slovenia is not only so dramatic, of course, but I also argue that with money or only money in Slovenia, demographic trends or demographics will not be turned to positive. Another thing I have here is that if you get something for free, you just can't appreciate it. I want to remind you of the certificates. Some have been lucky to have filed these certificates, some have been less fortunate, but today we have not actually had a headache, even if our investments were wrong. That 300 or 400 grand doesn't really mean anything to us today. Furthermore, if parents did not pay absolutely nothing for the services of kindergartens, then it would not be logical for parents to have their representatives in the authorities of kindergartens, in fact it would not be moral or not, which means that parents, if they were not their representatives in the authorities, would not be able to carry out checks on the provision of childcare services. In a way, I was also disappointed by the proposaler’s failure to touch one of the cases, or there are many such cases, where so far many families have decided on their own discretion to say that one of the parents, usually a mother, stays at home. And the family gives up one paycheck. It goes there for five, six or more family members, where mother is home, only father at work, says only one. Yes, but in a way there are families that are so worried about children, and I say that it is the best, in a way that such families have been neglected, of course to this day. And here's my disappointment because the proposer didn't deal with these cases. The law in this form, as proposed, cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Gremić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the Youth Party, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to make an assessment, based on my knowledge of kindergarten work, that the quality of kindergarten education is at an enviable quality level. And that, of course, the result of this quality is certainly a type of activity in recent years, but certainly it is possible to do more with improvements. As we speak of this law, he himself would expect a much greater preference from the Government for such a proposal. Why do I think the government's expectations were like that with me? In particular, due to initiatives already put forward in the previous mandate, by laws to exempt or provide free transport, to provide free food and, given that the largest coalition party is now decisively influential in this government, the power and expectation of a significantly greater regulation of this area than we can monitor today in these two years of governance. We were only trying to increase the share of funds to finance both transports and school meals with individual amendments. Unfortunately, most or all of the amendments were rejected. And if we look at the proposal that we have today on the table and the negative attitude that the Government has here, it shows the functioning of non-regulation of this area, or the lack of awareness of this area, given that the Government thus shows that this area is not its priority. Why am I saying this area isn't her priority? From two perspectives. The first aspect is that the Government, with a number of measures related to the amendment of the laws in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, shows essential interventions to the so-called social justice in the provision of social transfers. On the other hand, we have adopted a series of laws where, in fact, the Government is directing employment to poor quality jobs, which certainly do not have an impact on family creation, because we do not want or want to get as low-paid as possible. Of course, the arguments and here I am joining my colleague Kumru, who has given quite a few arguments in the position of the Government, are actually very superficial and have only one goal to show that this law should not be further upgraded. For how to understand it is certainly very much, I would say, an incorrect remark that it is a significant shift from the processes of decentralisation, saying that it is the competence of local communities and even talking about the original competence of the local community and then saying how the provinces will play an important role when it comes to the provinces and at the second stage to talk about the provision of financial resources through the Community Financing Act, where it has already been said here that it is actually a very strong form of centralisation of financial resources. Here I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are certainly all aware of what form or intensity to be defined for social justice. When we talk about this law, the question arises whether someone who has five times, ten times or more, or even significantly more, than someone who is in a socially weaker group should have the same possibility of not paying the kindergarten. Surely this is a very important issue in terms of payments and, of course, here I think it would be important for the Government to hear what the Government's attitude to such a question is. Because the answer to this question will also be very important when we look for solutions below, because we have more options within what we are talking about today, either the complete exemption from the payment of the price in kindergarten or somehow a selective approach in terms of property and the income of individual families. We have already mentioned the proposal here today. And given that colleague Tavševa has already talked about individual jumps being able to bring, in fact, an unstimulated form of decision to pursue a career, because on the other hand they have more negative effects than positive. So, of course, one of the models that we might be thinking about is making a kind of federal division out of step jumps of classes. Of course, it is important where we move this curve and where the country or local community should help to co-finance. Today we have heard that somehow 80% of the highest share is relative to the price and 20% is the share that is covered in the price. We can talk about the fact that, of course, the shift of this curve is significantly lower, so that we are only talking about 50% of the payment as the maximum amount for the payment of the kindergarten. And there are, of course, dilemmas within which today, in the opening explanation, you would expect significantly more from the Government. For when we read the conclusion of the evaluation of the government's law, we can conclude that the government already has measures to change this area, but today it does not want to say a word. For today we are 15 December, immediately at the beginning of the new year or at the beginning of the next year, but we can already expect how the Government will submit its amendment and supplement to the parliamentary procedure and, of course, today, Members and Members can make a substantial number of arguments on how and how to deal with this text, but not just count as representatives of the government on the parliamentary majority, so that the proposal, which is here, will, of course, be voted on without really hearing the arguments here today, which say that this proposal is a bad one. Of course, I view the initiative of the Youth Party as an important initiative to address and open up the pressing problems of this issue, as there is also a very large difference in the proportion of municipal budgets of the individual local community, which must be co-financed by weakness, i.e. income weakness, wealth weakness of the individual inhabitants of certain local communities. And here in Slovenia there are many differences, great differences exist between individual local communities, according to the income and property situation of individual families. Even here today, we have not heard any doubt as to whether, through the funding system of the municipalities, such municipalities will be helped differently than this centralisation is envisaged under the law itself. In view of the fact that the Party of Young People, at a time when the parliamentary party was somehow with the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, has somehow arranged a single set, it seems to me that it is normal to act with its initiative to continue with this. Perhaps we could have done this in its entirety when it was closer to this decision, but it seems important to me that when you talk about individual segments of Slovenian society, it would be good to see the entire vertical. Because there are a number of different options within social aid subsidies, opportunities, some are exploited, some are not exploited. And certainly today's debate on free kindergartens or for parents, i.e. the transfer of obligations from parents and local communities to the country, was an opportunity, unfortunately by the Government we have not heard the possibilities and views the Government has in this area. And, of course, I hope that, with the support of the law that would allow us in the second reading, to open up these issues, to continue to seek solutions together, could be the way to get to those solutions as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the proposer, representatives of the government, first of all, I would like to say, of course, that what we are talking about today is one percent of public money. One-hundred-and-a-half of public money would allow people in Slovenia to guarantee what we provide in the life cycle. With the social health care system, births are funded in solidarity and do not directly burden individual families. This is the case with primary school, as is the case with secondary school, and this is the case with higher education. If an individual is in a company that has lost his position on the market, with an active employment policy or with the help of unemployment, we will allow him to maintain a decent life and similar after his retirement, at the end of the last reputation, the state will take care to cover the costs of funerals. Only the period when mothers from maternity or maternity parents go back to work, and until children go to primary school, there is a situation in which this responsibility is primarily to organise and finance kindergartens a matter of municipalities where we have potential problems related to people thinking about whether to have a higher salary and thus to come to a higher income class and therefore to pay more money when paying for kindergartens or simply being paid, in saying, to keep a lower level. And the fundamental question from my point of view is this. Whether we will succeed in the National Assembly on these 20s, 25 billion, of which 150 public money will be discussed and ensured in the same way as we in a bad hour have allocated 100 billion dollars of money for some construction of railway infrastructure or 250 billion money for this or that guarantee. This is a fundamental question. The government says that the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, municipalities, etc. cannot provide adequate funds. Of course, there is much to say about how to upgrade the existing system, but the basic proposal of the applicants is, however, basically in order to help implement the so-called so-called system, as presented, the first objective of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, is to increase fertility. And the government's opinion, which rejects this, even the impossibility of allowing the debate to continue today with an appropriate decision, whether it is necessary to give one 150th in order to have a demographic picture in Slovenia that will ensure the sustainability of other systems, not only pension systems, but also any other health care if you want to, do not want to open a discussion about this. As a result of this proposal, I will support the young party's proposals. In order to open the debate to allow for a second reading at the home labour body to consider how to place the issue of financing kindergartens in the whole issue of financing the country's functions. If you don't allow it, you're at least double. A bad month ago in one hour 100 billion money for railways, four months ago 250 billion money for motorways, and today you do not want to support the start of a debate on whether this one-hundredths should compete with the other expenditure of Slovenian public finances. And I think that the young party is right and I think that this debate should be opened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to focus on some of the other issues raised by this amendment and the amendment of the law from a very financial point of view. The issue of pre-school education is important to me in order to ensure equal opportunities from two perspectives: from the point of view of children who can have an excellent basis in quality pre-school education, at least in terms of language competence and language competence, is the most important basis for all further forms of education. And here are those groups of the population that are socially less encouraging, but are given some opportunities that would not have been given without being included in child care. Another aspect of equal opportunities is the compatibility of parenthood and professional life. If the colleagues in the coalition thought carefully about how many legal supplements we have adopted on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which stimulates the abandonment of the labour market for young parents in order to stay with the family, we would see that we have not done the same thing to promote the integration of young parents into the labour market. And that's just one part of the same possibility. It is interesting in all this that the issue of education and standards is raised in particular in those who are in their respective areas of the county or the mayors and who are looking at child care only from a financial and cost perspective. That is why I think that the programme should be financed at national level in order for the local environment to take care of additional programmes, for what would be superstandard in child protection. I have in my hands the working material of the strategy for the development of preschool education in the Municipality of Ljubljana. I don't know how many more congregations have such a strategy, but the fact is that it is in such documents that it is possible to see where preschool education should go and how it should be organised. I have not heard anything from the distinguished Madam Secretary of State about what changes are being predicted. And at the beginning of the new year it was supposed to be already in the National Assembly, Madam Secretary, you have announced a long coordination procedure with local communities, whether it will be here already on January 1st, I don't know, but if I listen to coalition Members and Members, it seems to me that their idea of preschool education is turning not into the future, but into the past. And then I wonder why in the driving park that this government has, we don't turn to the past, but we want to have an ever better driving park that costs something. The position we are in puts those who claim by the government that knowledge is the value and strategic direction of this government puts you on a lie. With everything that is going on with regard to education and also with regard to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There are a few things, I think, clear after this debate, and it was certainly useful. First of all, it does not seem too easy to discuss how the cost would have been passed over to the country’s shoulders and about 20 billion tolars had already been found. Such a debate, if anyone knows anything about public finances, is not particularly productive, even when we know that it is being spent elsewhere. Even if there is somewhere else, there is no need to do so in this area. What is very important at the same time, and it is a bad sign, is the fact that we are being increased by the share that parents pay when we are being paid, and it has increased right in the last period, while we are already very high among European countries by the share that we parents pay for having a child in kindergartens. Therefore, it makes sense to consider gradually how to reduce this share, to reduce, as I have already said, for all categories of the population, except for those who are truly so rich that it is already bad for them. And it would be very good for them to pay their own child support. And when we think about the status of kindergartens in our country, there is one very important information that is available that we belong, if we divide European countries into two parts, into that part that cannot be commended that very much comes from public finances for kindergartens. As a rule, this is not paid by the State across Europe, and this is regulated at the level of local communities. Austria, for example, spends 0.55% of GDP on kindergartens, about 0.56% on Ireland, 0.44% on Italy, 0.44% on the Netherlands, 0.38% on the Netherlands, while, this is one part of the countries, the second part on child care, and the first league on child care are countries such as Denmark, which gives about 2% of GDP for this, Finland, which gives slightly more than 1.1%, Sweden, which gives 1.9%. We should be looking here in the middle, of course we can't jump against Scandinavia or against Nordic countries more precisely, but we can move towards 0.6%, 0.7%, and in this way we can make sure those who really need this child care cheaper to really get it. Protection, education and partly education take place in kindergartens in Slovenia, let's not play or reduce this, let's not just do it for protection. If there will be only protection there, then the compensatory role of our preschool education will be to help those who enter life with the least opportunity, to succeed in life enter into kindergartens, small, very small. Rather than aim and spread money across all categories of children, let us try to get this targeted additional assistance. These two directions make sense to me, and let someone look at it, who believes that we have overeducated educators, what it looks like in other countries. The Slovenian education system for this staff is currently comparable to the European systems that count. In Europe, it even appears that the proportion of those who are educating teachers at the university level is increasing. And it is necessary to face it, in this way, it is probably wise to look for system upgrades in this direction. Personally, I would be happy if we could do so under this law, and we will therefore support him to go to another treatment. Again, let me say, such as, even with this basic content, all free of charge, we will not support this in the second reading. We're counting on the law to be built up for second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Once again, a nice hello. Once in the beginning, France was mentioned, and perhaps there is only one other information, which has not been mentioned that there are free kindergartens in France, and I will not talk about it, but that there are 28 children or even more in France, and we have a standard 22. That's how you have to tell all the data. Some of you have expressed the view that kindergartens may even have to be compulsory or that all children should be involved. I can’t agree with this, or it’s probably a decision that we should leave to our parents. They can’t make much of their own decisions at primary school, but they can enroll their children in the nearest school, some private schools, but they can’t always reach them because of distance or anything like that. Some have also expressed that children are not making progress at home, that they cannot learn, that they cannot develop. I can't agree to that either. I think that sometimes a child with one or both parents, with older parents, can also develop certain things, and it is not just a kindergarten one who would somehow teach them or socialize them. Parents or parents also know the child better and can develop where it is good, sometimes with some educators or educators, despite all the education. I also know quite a few young mothers who would love to stay at least another year after the maternity home because they feel that this is good for the child and they also want to spend more time with him. And a lot of parents actually say to have the baby by the third, fourth year at home, and then he'll go to kindergarten then. Even in boys they say that they all get sick, they find different diseases, they don't now, they're just in kindergarten and they wouldn't get them, but some also decide that in this sensitive period it's better to be at home. It may be a problem for some children who are alone who do not have siblings and are likely to become part of a wider group and learn to share things so that they learn that they are not the only ones, but apparently parents are already aware of it. I told you before in percentages, 81% of children are included in the second age group. And it's still a lot, obviously parents say, "We'll put him in kindergarten before school so he can meet friends and stuff." I agree that kindergartens in Slovenia are expensive. We should do something about that. We have to ask ourselves what we can rationalize. In some municipalities, the accounting services of kindergarten, schools, perhaps even the municipality, were also expressed by some mayors. Let us see again whether the optimal number of hours they have to be in a group of educators and assistants or whether it is possible to combine a school janitor, a kindergarten janitor, when they drive food to branch schools on the same side or a dislocated kindergarten unit. As I said at the outset, the problem is not simple, and so let's just say, having free kindergartens is not as easy a solution as it sounds. We need to think about actually maintaining quality, rationalizing [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] maybe change the ratio of 20:80 or something. [[...]] According to the assurances, the ministry is also working in this direction and we support them and expect solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u112	Perhaps just once again, what I have already pointed out at the outset is that the Government also sees that this debate is positive, that there was a lot of constructive arguments here and also proposals on how preschool education, which we are all aware of in Slovenia, could not only be responsible at the Ministry, that it is extremely important for entry, for further education. Therefore, after the Multiannual Adoption of the Kindergarten Act, it is necessary to re-establish these things from all perspectives, both in terms of social, economic and those we all want to pursue in the end, including in terms of the quality of preschool education. I would like to reply only to Mrs Potter that we did not say that we would be preparing a new law on 1 January, but we said that next year we were preparing a starting point so that we could then introduce a law that would bring new solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. He wants the word "proposer." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we proposed a law to the procedure or when we even discussed how to deal with the problem, we had two goals ahead of us. The primary objective is to complete and defend those children's rights, which means equal opportunities for access to preschool education. But there was another intermediate goal that we are achieving right now in these benches, and this is that we actually wanted to draw attention to the incontinence of the current system. It is clear from your discussions that few are just satisfied with this system that we have, so much more so that today we would like this amendment of the bill to be supported, in just a way to further encourage the ministry to prepare an upgrade of our proposal as soon as possible, so that it will also be acceptable to most Members and Members of Parliament. If we are talking about the incontinence of the current system, I would point out only a few essential things. One is the substantial burden on families by co-financing kindergartens, the other, the law that encourages fraud today with just effective laws and more, the third is the control over the use of funds and, of course, the differences in economic prices, which may vary by 40% from kindergarten to kindergarten, and there is no logical explanation. Then there are different controls on the creation and use of money, and what is crucial today is what we have also proposed for the state to take on the burden of what it proposes. In the case of pre-school education, the state proposes spatial, human resources conditions, prescribes a corriculum, which is a unique case in Europe, and this is paid by someone else. That's it. They're local communities and parents. The other thing we'd like to point out is that the system is expensive, but it's expensive for parents and not for the country. One hundred and twenty is not the share that we should be talking about today, or that is why we will be reducing the rights of children who are in fact severely disadvantaged, as their older colleagues, children in primary, secondary schools have significantly greater rights, i.e. greater access to this than preschool children today. It is with this law that we lay some solid foundations on which to build a new, organized preschool education. And we believe we can do this with your support. The new proposal for amendments to the law first sets out the objective of ensuring that children are as much involved as possible and that the socialisation of children in the education systems of the country as possible. The other thing is that this creates conditions right through this proposed law. Thirdly, when controversy arises, what happens to those kids who don't get involved in preschool education. Today, we are talking about whether parents have the right to include the child or not. However, if conditions are better, it is also understandable that we will have more children involved in preschool education alone, and it is also understandable that there will be no 100% inclusion. Essentially, what the law proposes is that it significantly burdens Slovenian families, makes it easier to decide on parenthood, increases the socialisation of children and facilitates the return of costs to professional life after the care of a young child. And a word about kuriculum. When we're talking about sharing a new curriculum on the part where the grades are in the back and on the part where there's no ratings in the back, I just want to say something. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I have three children and all three children are clearly evaluated by kindergarten teachers. Every month I go to a speaking class at least once, and then they tell me, your kid's progressing like that, and he knows that, and that's why it's the best thing for me to do when I get home. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. With this, the list of all those who applied for the debate is exhausted. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. The time for debate is five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to comment on the financial implications that are in the prospectus of the Young People's Party for Slovenia: 24 billion, their second estimate in the material is 54 billion, or I said 54 billion earlier, then 54 billion, and the government's estimate is almost 90 billion. I don't know. He's probably holding the government's information. The kind of sustainability of public finances, with such an increased burden on the country, which, of course, may remain some taxes that would not have been passed on to the municipalities, remains a major problem. I personally get warmed up for the same approach to preschool education and education protection, of course, which is important, not only in kindergarten, but also at home, in the family, as it is arranged for primary education in Slovenia. I repeat, however, that this objective must be pursued in a comprehensive manner and not only through one measure, but not as proposed by the Party of Young Slovenia, which is, however, well-meaning, well-meaning and close to all, in order to achieve the goal, at least by sharing more fairly and by establishing some kind of solidarity between the richer and less richer regions of Slovenia, or, of course, among families. Taxes as such are, of course, one of the mechanisms, the Young Slovenia Party proposes for all the same ratings, says free kindergartens, I do not know whether they have advocated a single tax rate or a tax rate, depending on the income and wealth of an individual or a legal entity. In any case, the objective of free kindergartens will have to be considered, I think it will be necessary to follow even in this direction, but the sustainability of public finances is certainly what is important in this society, so that it can survive in a successful way. I will not support your proposal myself, but I think that if you really had a good purpose, I welcome this effort and approach of yours, and if not, it contributed to this debate while giving us some good points and also giving us an opportunity to tell about the Government, the Ministry of Education, to draw up an appropriate proposal for legislation that will correct the bad experiences of the current regime and I am sure that I have taken into account some suggestions, both yours or guidance, as well as those of the debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues, honourable speakers! We are already used to the demagogic debates in this National Assembly. I've had quite a thick skin myself in these two years, and I don't usually get very upset by such discussions. This time, however, this demagogous debate encouraged me to come forward and apply for the floor. Usually in life, things that are free aren't worth much. If we look back a little bit, there were a lot of things in socialism that were free, but, as we all know, their value was not, I don't know, how great. And it was also one of the things that has caused socialism to fail for decades. Now in this proposal, when a kindergarten is proposed for free, it seems to me that the matter is similar and it seems to me that it is a matter of deciding whether to step in with a developed world where such things are not regulated in this way, or whether we are going back to a system that has already survived and we have called it socialism. It seems to me that this proposal is also one step in this direction, one step backwards, so I do not support such proposals and will not support them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't sign up for a debate earlier, but since I've been listening to it, I think it shows something. I hope that my contribution will be to this issue. First of all, I have to say that I looked at the title of this publication, which says "Free Kindergartens for All." It's the least misleading. Free kindergartens according to your proposal only for those who will be included in kindergarten now or later, but not for everyone and probably here unconsciously, if it is conscious, but it is so much worse, I will say, you discriminate against that group that decides otherwise to deal with the problem of child care or in the form of private kindergartens that do not have private concessions or within the family. That's a major flaw. Another major flaw in the proposal, which I can add to the centralist adjective, is that it assumes the competence of the municipalities to finance kindergartens and thus to create policies in this area. I think you have very little knowledge of the situation in the field of child care in the congregations, which is very different. Here I would say that the strategy has also helped nothing in Ljubljana, because it has fallen behind in building capacity for kindergartens, because only central Slovenia is facing a marked lack of capacity for children or kindergartens, while in other municipalities, unfortunately also due to known demographic movements, today we are faced with a shortage of children in kindergarten. Also, when we talk about free forget to say that unlike central Slovenia, in the area where I come from, parents pay only 10 to 15% of the economic price. That we also manage this congregation’s economic price with a view not to expel anyone who has to pay something to this economic price, even holding back. In any event, in accordance with the law on institutions, we are obliged to settle an account that comes at the end of the year in connection with the operation of the kindergarten, either through an increased economic price or through the coverage of the loss. And taking this responsibility to the municipalities, yes, even with the creation of good kindergartens, I say that kindergartens are quality, good, that they also create a component of development, it is very bad. You've completely disappointed me here. You only see the center, just central Slovenia, you don't see what's going on in the countryside, where we know that kindergarten is a living value, where we pay a lot of attention to kindergartens, where we have, in terms of meeting standards, as far as spatial conditions are concerned, an even higher standard because they are usually two, three or even four children in the department less than the state standard. It is not possible to bring everything together to Ljubljana, to some center on some state, because central Slovenia with a wider area of Ljubljana has no regulated area of child protection. It's not working and I'm not agreeing to it. With your proposal, you hit a social system that we stand up for and break, or you intend to disrupt, one social system. It is also necessary to distinguish between what we have already heard today, among those who are so rich that they can pay for this kindergarten. But as for one more discussion from my colleague Kumra, let me tell him that I drove a child to kindergarten 25 kilometers away in one mind, because there was no room elsewhere in today's days that he called impossible. [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the proposer. Here you go, please. I'm sorry. I'll wait till they finish the debate in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that opinions have also been drawn, but that there have been such interesting debates that we cannot even conclude, but before I make my final speech at this point, I would like to replicate perhaps the last three performers, but I am going from below. Taking responsibility for the municipalities' centralisation, I think just through funding, that's not true. A spindle is a bison value. Of course, the municipalities still have the opportunity to take care of the above standard, all other concerns, of infrastructure. We do not exclude those who choose otherwise. Capacity is well known how different they are in Slovenia. And if I am already answering the previous question about demagogism, Mr Kovacic, I am interested in who is spreading demagogism here, because we have all our arguments supported, the OECD study shows you how the situation is regulated and payable in the OECD countries, although Slovenia is not a member, it can also be an example of how this preschool education is regulated, not only priced, and many people here have said that we are only talking about free, which is far from true. We have made many arguments in this defense, but I agree that the possibility of this proposal being supplemented, amended and I hope that you will allow Members and Members of Parliament to do so. The question was also about the seriousness of the purpose of the Young Slovenia Party, if we seriously believe that this is certainly encouraging. We're getting the ball back. If the Government is serious about those first development priorities, then let the Government prove it and give us at least Members who are either separate branch of government, you have the possibility that it is possible to upgrade this in the second, third reading and perform a certainly better version if you think that this is not a good one. Mr. Stabet's question on finance. 24 billion are public expenditure increases, 54 billion are already included in the current public expenditure and in the government's proposal the current public expenditure, which is over 40 billion plus the share that parents would pay and the increased involvement of children. But now I'd like to get to the bottom of it. I also liked the fact that someone mentioned that we Slovenians are greedy, we learned to be content with what we have, that it will not be worse. And that's what I wanted to say. I would like to place the Members of Parliament on the heart and the Members to allow a second reading debate, and you still have the opportunity to refuse if you believe that we are not able to make a better proposal at that time with the city public debates and with all those who must be involved in this process. There's a lot of questions if the state can afford it. We know very well what a low share of the funding is when we are really talking about priority. And the priority should be one that pays for everyone, regardless of their position. Social justice, however, is primarily governed by tax policy, and there must be one where someone wants to mention a balance sheet. Whoever wants can still pay. I also liked it, and they may find themselves, who, when the kindergartens are free, will want to contribute to it. I don't see any contradictions. Again, I argue that our arguments prove that we have serious resources for them, unlike the government's side here today, which also believes that there is no room to confront arguments, opinions and to prove that their claims have some basis in, I don't know, probably in some kind of research or similar. I also know the case of one SDS member who, in his pre-election, not now years ago, promised free kindergartens in the pre-election programme, somewhere around Škofja Loka. I'm not going to say exactly in Bishop Loka. Since we've done all the talking with you, you all admit that the situation is not good, that kindergartens are expensive. I believe you're thinking in this direction that we need change. From the beginning, I highlighted intergenerational solidarity. Here again, I would like to warn you that it is not enough for young people and children. One more thing to conclude. I would also like to point out once again that you have certain parties written exactly how you will defend social justice in your programmes. Also in online forums, I have searched many of the ideas of people, citizens, and I must say that most of them support this, even though some of them are sceptical, like you, do not believe exactly in this version that we have given by the Youth Party. So I hope that you will also allow Christmas to children and confirm the proposal for a second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour. That's at 6.05. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u124	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a Spatial Planning Act, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There were 57 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 13. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Kindergarten Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on kindergartens, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There were 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour, 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister of Defence, to the question of Mr Friend of Parliament's Meeting on military housing in Postojna. I'll open the list. First of all, you have the floor on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Joseph Scholch. I'll wait. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Lucky Friend, on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Because I believe that many of you were not in the hall when I asked the minister a question, I would say once again what this is about. Both the military ministry and the Ministry of the Interior and the National Assembly have hugely free dwellings. These apartments, especially the defence ministry, are failing, are inadequately maintained and young people know that they need 200,000 apartments today. That is why I addressed the Minister's initiative and also received an inadequate response. These apartments should be leased to young families at non-commercial prices. That is why I have also proposed a debate and I would ask that you also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Pursuant to Majda Širca's proposal, the Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, to Majd Širc's question on the allocation of funds from the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the Assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Squeaks in relation to the possible rebalancies of state budgets for 2007 and 2008. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jureta Zupan, to the question of the Member State, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on the implementation of the so-called Bologna study. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Janez Podobnik to the question of the issue of environmental pollution sent by companies. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Dusan Kumra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovra Šturma, to the question of Dusan Kumra on the premises used by the Ministry. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Boštjan Zagorec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport of Mags. Janez Bozič's question on the question of Bosnia and Herzegovina's intended resting place in the project of the construction of the highway on the Lendava-Maribor route. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in accordance with Article 90, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the Members present is necessary for the adoption of amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 17. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for whom 4 votes against 51. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the amendment to Article 17 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 32. We're voting. There are 61 present, 54 members and Members voted against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 4. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Monday 18 December 2006 in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. 3rd point. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Industrial Property Rights of the Working Relationship will be held on Monday, 18 December, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - the draft law on amendments and additions to the copyright and related rights law - the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 6. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 7 becomes irrelevant. Check-in is on. On behalf of the Group of Members. Can I ask you in this crowd of applicants if the one who intends to explain his voice on behalf of the delegation raises his hand? Mr. School is the only one. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This and the following amendments are amendments which are deleted from the draft law by the Copyright Council. According to the Ministry's proposal, the Copyright Council should be the authority to act when users and owners of copyright and related rights could not agree on the tariff. As set out, this Council automatically gives the silence to avoid an agreement and initiates a mechanism for this tariff setting where the Ministry of Economy has the decisive word. Such a Council is opposed by the authors and their collective organisations. If this Council is opposed by collective organisations representing copyrights, then you need to know that this mechanism interferes with their fundamental rights, it is said that the rights allowing them certain earnings and many others to survive. The way the Ministry advocates and is supported by the coalition means that, with the power of arbitration provided by the Minister, the authors can be called denationalized in some part of their rights, so in the Liberal Democracy we consider that such an authority is unnecessary and also harmful. We will support this and, at the same time, predict that if this kind of supplement is not adopted, in the previous debate we had on this law, the National Assembly acted relatively reasonablely that in this case we will not also support the law and we can promise almost certainly disputes before the relevant courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We're voting. We're voting. There were 60 Members and Members present, 18 votes in favour, 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting. I said that this made the amendment to Article 7 irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since amendments were not adopted in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled for third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Check-in is on. On behalf of the parliamentary group on explanation of vote. You have the floor, Mr. Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that it is possible for a lot of boring to say that the National Assembly, with this mechanism, is allowing Slovenian authors and performers in their rights, at least one part. Disappointment is something that is in fact also controversial from the point of view of constitutional regulation. In this case, it is not that everyone has the same rights and that someone has to arbitrate between them. It is a simple question that copyright and related rights are derived from those who are authors, not those who are beneficiaries. The National Assembly clearly sanctions favourably those lobbying the Ministry of the Economy, so that the Ministry of Economy decides instead of others on tariffs and prices. What is particularly sad is that neither the Minister of Culture nor others, where creativity is supposed to be at home, but they can account with creativity, I will say, craftsmen and their associations, the Ministry of Economy and the National Assembly serve them. So know that when you ask people to perform at your events, you are actually taking part in your decision to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We're voting on the law. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 19. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Monday 18 December 2006 at 10 a.m.
