ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorské - EPA 1170-IV. We have an hour and 25 minutes to discuss. Since there is no representative of the Government, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u2	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order to establish a new faculty, the proposed decree should be supplemented by the inclusion of the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology as members of the University. The application for an opinion on the establishment of a new faculty shows that the university will carry out educational activities in the first phase at premises owned or leased by the University of Primorske in Koper. The University is ordered to coordinate the statutes within three months of the application of this Decision and to form the bodies of the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology within three months of the entry into force of the Statute. After the expiry of this period, the new faculty will take over the study programmes in the field of mathematics and statistics and computer science, which are accredited to the Faculty of Education of Koper. The conclusions of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education show that the new Member fulfils the conditions for taking over the curricula of the Faculty of Education and for transferring students to a new university. The establishment of a new member of the University has no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, higher education institutions are financed in accordance with the Regulation on Public Financing of Higher Education and Other Institutions of University Members from 2004 to 2008, which provides, inter alia, that funding for study activities should be determined taking into account the implementation of the previous year, increased by an appropriate percentage of growth. Therefore, the financing of the new Member has no financial implications for the budget. In the general debate, Mrs Breda Pecan asked the representative why the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology in Cyprus and not in Izola was expected to be established because the land for the implementation of this activity was already donated to the University of Primorska. If she had been headquartered in Izola, she felt that certain funds would have been saved for the implementation of the study programme, since in Cyprus rents should be paid for the premises of this university. Her question was explained by the motioner of the decree that the proposal for the head office of the Faculty in Cyprus had been submitted by the competent University of Primorska; the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology agreed with such a proposal. The Committee adopted its amendment that the university should, instead of one month after the harmonisation of this Statute, form the bodies of the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology within three months. With the adoption of this decree, the third public university in Slovenia, the University of Primorsk, will also receive a mathematical and natural block, meaning that this university is becoming a full-blown university in its programme. Members and members of the Committee have adopted the above-mentioned decree, supplemented by it. The amended motion for a decree was also adopted without a vote against, i.e. by majority, and we also propose to the National Assembly that this decree be adopted unanimously and that it allow for a third university, the University of Primorsk, if I express myself somewhat poetically, in full-blooded action. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups to present my views on the motion for a ruling. I invite Mrs Pecanovo, on behalf of the Social Democrats, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u4	Good afternoon. A warm welcome to everyone who seems important enough for you to come to the debate and listen to how another college is being established in the Southern Seas, the first college to have scientific content from the science and technology field, which we believe is extremely important. In fact, the University, which does not have a university of science and technology within its framework or members involved in this area, is certainly incomplete, lacks the essential part that gives each University the true value and the right also the attractiveness, in particular for students. That is why I can say that we are pleased in the Group of Social Democrats that it has come up with a proposal for the Ministry to propose amendments and amendments to the decision establishing the University of Primorska, as this also legally introduces itself among the members of the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology of Koper. We regret, however, that the Ministry and the Management Board of the University, which constantly opposes the construction of the buildings of the Faculty of Science and Technology in general, in order to choose a better, more rational and, above all, more cost-effective variant of the seat, because there is already an existing facility in Izola that the Minister does not want to finance for the conversion to the premises of the language centre, language study centres; and could, because he owns the University of Primorsk, function as head of the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology. This would save the University of Primorsk 700,000 tolars a month. Unfortunately, the decision of both the university body and the ministry itself is that 700,000 tolars per month or 8 million tolars per year are not money that would be important enough to open up or set up a university seat where it is supposed to be at the end of all, i.e. in Izola. The Group of Social Democrats will, of course, support the decision despite all the unusual decisions, because it is more important that the decision be supplemented by a new member of the University of Primorska than that due to prestige, what is actually happening in this regard, to fight against something that is good for even Southern Primorska, and I think even for Primorska. And I just wish that this college's traveller would be as favoured as possible and that there would be top-notch experts at this university who would actually be able to raise Slovenia to the top of the world in the next decade, as we have heard last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat will speak on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members, honourable Members. Today, in fact, it is for Slovenia, especially at this point in time for the Primorska holiday. Historical things are happening, as far as university studies are concerned, this is good for Primorsko and is good for the whole of Slovenia. The national programme sets out the basic objective of the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia, allowing the largest possible proportion of the population to obtain quality undergraduate and postgraduate education. Education is an essential factor in economic, social and cultural development and the development of national identity and the Slovenian language as an integral part of it. Such education can only be obtained through the scientific, artistic and professional activities of universities and independent higher education institutions opened up to the region and the world. With the establishment of the University of Primorske, this part of Slovenia has also begun to turn into an intellectual centre that is becoming increasingly attractive for both domestic and foreign students, academics and researchers. Amendments to the decree are the result of the establishment of the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology. In the New Slovenia Group, the establishment of the so-called Faculty of Natural Sciences is particularly welcomed and supported, as comparisons with the European Union countries show that there is a relatively low proportion of us enrolled in natural sciences and in mathematics and computer sciences. Fortunately, in this year's study year, it is said in the early years that we note and perceive the efforts of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, where it is evident that the entry into the so-called nature-oriented first years has increased significantly. In the New Slovenia Group, we wish that universities are not only institutions whose basic mission is education and research, but mainly the transfer of new knowledge into practice, that is to say the environment in which this knowledge was created. Thus, in the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for amendments to the decree, in particular in the light of further promotion, cooperation between universities and higher education institutions and between the economy and the immediate environment in which these institutions operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u8	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed amendment to the decision establishing Universities in Primorska. The establishment or extension of any educational establishment is welcome and certainly has long-term positive effects on the development of the country or areas. With the proposed amendment, we are supplementing section 3 of the decree to establish a new faculty at the University of the Sea, namely the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology in Cyprus. The new university is important for the University of Primorska, for the development of science in the coastal region and also for Slovenia as a whole. Also at the University of Maribor this spring a new member was established for this area, namely the Faculty of Science and Mathematics. Each new college is also important in terms of competitiveness in higher education. If our students have a choice between multiple and specific studies in several higher education institutions, they must compete with each other, which forces them to raise the quality of studies in individual colleges or areas. Of course, the further development of the faculty also depends on the spatial and other conditions which must be met. At the same time, we expect sufficient resources to be provided to ensure these two conditions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Friend has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I was happy when we voted in this Chamber a guarantee law for the rental of credits, which in a way ensured equal conditions for the work of universities, university centres in Slovenia. However, I am not satisfied with the fact that we have a certain element in the implementation and implementation of the actual programming bases. In particular, what we are supplementing today, the Slovenian National Party will support the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the decree, but I would like to say the following to the Minister. Minister, this complication that has arisen, you will have to solve it yourself and it is incomprehensible why the head office of the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology is envisaged in Cyprus and not in Isola, as envisaged by the land. Why are we not counting today on the savings that this activity might have, for in Cyprus we have to pay the rent? It's an open fact. I'm going to say that because it was, I'm going to say, exposed to some kind of so-called non-transparent investment by a hospital that was supposed to be made as an investment in the road, which was paid from a higher education programme. Now it is not reasonable to be conceited about the delay in making decisions and decisions of such importance. Finally, I would also like to say that if we want to capture an equal situation in Slovenia, we must, of course, ensure equal financial conditions, and this is certainly this proposal for a decree, I welcome it in principle, but the time delay is great. The needs in the space expressed by economists are great - after education - and these needs need to be followed. I think that with greater understanding, ministries would also be easier, faster to implement and open up these necessary educational centres, which also dictate the development of the economy. I therefore appeal to the Minister to actually listen to the University of the Sea with greater obedience and less rigour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen has the following word on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a regulation on amendments and additions to the decision establishing the University of Primorska, as we believe that, given the data that in Slovenia, a large shortage of natural and technically educated people will help to create a new Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology. The fact is that Slovenia is lagging behind the average of the European Union, especially in the field of highly quoted publications and patents granted, following scientific and technological productivity, and is particularly concerned about the use of knowledge. In view of this, in our Group of Members, it is essential to adopt measures that follow the quality and effectiveness of research activities, measures that promote the integration of education, research and entrepreneurship, and measures that increase the mobility of knowledge, ideas and people in society. One of these measures is also the consideration of the decrees allowing the establishment of a new member of the University of Primorsk, namely the Faculty of Science and Technology, and we will therefore welcome the support of DeSUS Members of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The last one has the floor, Mrs Irgle, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, honourable Members and honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the University of Primorska. First of all, I must say that we are very pleased that we have already confirmed the Law on Guarantee of the University of Primorsk, because even with the adoption of this law, today we will be more able to support the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology under the auspices of the University of Primorsk. By supporting this decree today, we will also support Slovenia's development, support or increase its potential, and, above all, enable the University of Primorsk, its students and professors to study and work in the field of natural science, especially today, when we are involved in the process of creating a common European higher education space, which will, inter alia, allow exchange of views and unifying certain aspects of the creation of higher education. In fact, the decree is a small change in terms of technical nature, and on the substantive side it represents high expectations in the field of natural science at the University of Primorska. So far, the University of Primorsk has been considered primarily the university that covers the field of sociology and humanities, but today we are also upgrading it with natural sciences, which is certainly welcome, as the current proportion of graduates in the field of science and technology in Slovenia is much lower than the European average. As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Primorska.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. I give my first word to Mr. Friend. [[He's quitting.]] I give my word to Mrs. Irgle if she wants. [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I would like to thank all the Members present and Members of Parliament for the support that this decree has received. We are all aware that the establishment of a new university is a fine act, allowing for studies in different directions. In this place, I would also apologize for missing a trifle because I had another meeting, and they told me that the beginning was at half, and I was here a little before half, but you seemed so hasty that I was a little late and I didn't have an introduction. So much for an apology. However, I would like to briefly explain some disagreement when it was said why we did not determine the seat of this university in Isola. It is particularly important to say that three conditions are required for accreditation of the new faculty, namely the programme, the staff and the location. It's all being checked out. Check the software design, check the personnel composition of who teaches, and no matter how to write, say, some people, then teach third parties, or write one program, and then another program would be implemented. It is also important to check the location where the university can be implemented. We need to check this out, and the University has to say this on its own. When the University tells the location where it will carry out its activities, this location is set at the moment and the Higher Education Council, and neither does the Ministry have any legal possibility of modifying the location voluntarily. Only so, to avoid all this, that if we are a legal state, we must work in accordance with these rules. I also note this because some colleges want to change and move their headquarters to other locations. The location is an extremely important component of the curriculum and must also be verified as well as everything else, i.e. as professors and as a programme. So much for explaining these misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. As you can see, we still have some time. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] Good. Then I have to initiate an official application. Please sign up. Mr. Friend, your word. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I'll only spend two minutes, not five. I would, of course, reply to the Minister-designate that we have been informed that the proposal for the head office of the Faculty in Cyprus has been submitted by the competent authorities of the University. That's not an issue. However, those who know that there is a very small difference between Koper and Isola and that rent is being paid in Koper, and in Isola this would not be necessary, we know that this is reckless, uneconomic behaviour. And that was part of my question to you. Of course, this also stems from this delta T, the difference in time that we all regret today, because it goes too slowly, especially in Primorska, also because of finances. And these decisions continue to foster further backlogs in the establishment of such important institutions as today’s parallel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a decree, the assembly will hold its decision-making session today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of agenda 14 or no later than 16 and 35 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE REFERENCE OF THE UNIVERSE IN MARIBOR, EPA 1188-IV. We have 1 hour and 25 minutes to discuss. This motion for a decree has also been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to Minister Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u20	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! This decree or motion for a decree goes in the same direction as the previous one. The point is that at the University of Maribor we turn the School of Health into the Faculty of Health Sciences. The fact is that the need for higher and higher health personnel in addition to medical professions in Slovenia is extremely critical, which means that we need to do everything possible to improve the education of adequate personnel and also to increase quantitatively. That is why I am grateful that you have confirmed and accepted this so quickly and so unanimously. The fact is that the new Faculty of Health will also be given a second-degree opportunity for education, which is important for a second-degree health education to be introduced into this higher education facility. However, as far as everything else is concerned, I think they are just technical corrections, which have also been adopted and we agree with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development also considered this decree to be a parent labour force. I give my word to Mr. Mohet, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u22	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor is to rename a member of the University of Maribor from the University of Health to the Faculty of Health Sciences. As the decree changes, the following amendments are also included in this decree. The fourth paragraph of Article 6 shall be supplemented by the writing of the study areas of the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy, and the name of the Faculty of Police and Safety Sciences shall be changed to the Faculty of Safety Sciences and High Schools of Health at the Faculty of Health Sciences. With this in mind, we will have only two areas at the Faculty of Education for the transfer of study areas, the remaining areas will be transferred to the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and to the Faculty of Philosophy. The transitional provision lays down the time limit for the alignment of the Statute of the University with the decree, and the University shall, no later than three months after the adoption of this Decision, bring the statute into line with it and within three months of the entry into force of the Statute, the bodies of the Faculty of Health should be established. These amendments to the decree have no financial implications. In his explanation, the representative of the motion for a decree stressed that this was a qualitative change, as the High School of Health, by introducing new and additional programmes, was to become the Faculty of Health Sciences. The Rector of the University of Maribor, Dr. Ivan Rozman, said that the High School of Health deserves university status, as new curricula are already being developed mainly in the field of medical information, which will be carried out by professors of the entire University, domicil, and should have in this university. These new curricula already exceed the level of higher education. With the status of the university, we will also be able to introduce second-degree studies and thus implement a master's degree program. After a brief discussion, the Committee adopted its three amendments and thus contributed to improving the content of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the decision on the recasting of the University of Maribor. To the Members and Members of the National Assembly, I propose that the amended proposal for a decree be adopted and thereby raise health science education to a higher level, "vivat crescat floreat, alma mother Maribor ensis".
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The first one has the word "magic." Spending. Please, on behalf of SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Member of Parliament. I can't hide some kind of emotional charge whenever we talk about the adoption of a decree on the University of Maribor. With the decision to be supported by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, as it has supported all the decisions related to the University of Maribor so far, we will obtain the University of 15 members, with 25 universities fully developing university programmes, in line with the Bologna processes. And it is precisely that, in the healthcare sector, to ensure the implementation of study programmes at master level, it is related to the renaming of the University of Health School in the Faculty of Health Sciences. Of course, in addition to these programmes, which are directly related to medical sciences, there will also be a study programme on medical information in this Faculty. In this case, of course, it is not about creating a new college, but only about reshaping, so it is not about enlargement, but it is about developing study programmes, which is extremely important in order to develop the competitiveness of Slovenian higher education. And it is no coincidence that health science can develop even more efficiently in an environment that has already paid much attention to this particular segment of the health professions in the past. By means of a medical college, with a redesigned former Faculty of Education, which has grown from one university to three colleges, the Faculty of Police Sciences and the Faculty of Medical Sciences, the offer of study programmes at the University of Maribor is being expanded. I forgot to mention the Faculty of Logistics, which has a centre in Celje, so in addition to the core programmes located in Maribor, the University of Maribor also receives colleges in Kranj and Ljubljana, meaning that the Faculty of Maribor or the University of Maribor is becoming legal in the sense of the All-Slovenian University. May the stars please her not only in 2007 but throughout the third millennium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat has the following word on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. If I started at the previous point with the holiday of Primorska and Primorska University, this time I want to start with the holiday of the University of Maribor and of the whole of Slovenia, not only the northeast part of Slovenia. Over the coming years, it is possible to expect a gradual reassurance of a large enrollment interest in tertiary education and, at the same time, further institutional strengthening in particular in improving the quality of studies and international cooperation. The current structure of the working population with a higher, higher or postgraduate level of education does not meet the development objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. Throughout the decade, between 1984 and 1994, the number of graduates was almost unchanged, with a marked increase only from the second half of the 1990s. Taking into account the orientations in other European countries, while further increasing enrolment in tertiary education, reduction of rash and quality improvement, studies should be set to target more than 20% of the population in employment after 2005 in higher, higher or post-graduate levels of education. And towards the end of the decade, about 25%. Without intensive promotion of higher education and a larger number of graduates, our backlog with European countries can become critical. In tertiary education for at least the next 10 years, it is not possible to expect or allow the number of students to decrease, on the contrary - the number of students must continue to increase. Their participation in education, both secondary and tertiary, is increasing as a result of the reduction of generations. In order to allow the right to education in the Republic of Slovenia and to achieve the level of entry into tertiary education that is typical of developed countries and is strategically important for countries with fewer populations, we must plan to have about 35 students per 1,000 population in this decade. Aware of the importance of the decisions listed in the New Slovenia Group of Members, we support the two proposals for rulings that are being discussed today in the National Assembly. Although we are today addressing programme changes within the University, we believe it is important to follow them through the prism of influence on areas that are lagging behind. By also approaching educational institutions in these areas, we are introducing the possibility of significantly reducing their developmental backlogs. For this reason, young generations need to be given the opportunity to develop their abilities as intensively as possible. Therefore, the proportions of each generation opting for tertiary education must be increased. As it is said, this decree will also be supported by the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u28	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleague and colleague! We support the proposed amendments to the decree on the reshaping of the University of Maribor in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group for the same reasons as mentioned at the time of the consideration of the previous item on the agenda, this is under the Decree establishing the University of Primorska. The proposed amendment concerns the renaming of one of the members of the University of Maribor. Up until now, High School of Health has become or become the Department of Health Sciences. The transformation of college to college is certainly welcome, especially since it is the first university in the field of health education in our young country. The development of health science in the scientific field is certainly necessary and necessary for our health care. We hope that the university will attract an even greater number of students in the future, because in health care we are particularly short of highly educated nurses. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed decree will be adopted or supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Jelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thanks again for saying that. Your Honors are here! DeSUS Members undermine the proposal for amendments to the basic decree, as we estimate that it is a more qualitative change to the High School of Health, which will be transformed and renamed the Faculty of Health Sciences. We estimate that medical knowledge deserves to be given university status, which is also in line with the introduction of the Bologna system, as this will enable a second-degree study programme, i.e. a master's degree programme. It is also appropriate to propose a three-month deadline for the harmonisation of the Statute of the University and for the establishment of college bodies, as all necessary procedures for the formation of a Senate of a Member and procedures for the appointment of a new Dean will be carried out. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal because it is one of the measures that will help to make a necessary increase in the number of natural and technical experts in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Resolution on the Conversion of the University of Maribor, which provides for the renaming of a member of the University of Maribor, namely the University of Health School in the Faculty of Health Sciences. This decree also complements the study areas of the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy and changes the name of the Faculty of Police Safety Sciences to the Faculty of Safety Sciences and High Schools of Health at the Faculty of Health Sciences. It should be stressed that new additional programmes are already in place at the future Faculty of Health, which raise the level of higher education to university level. Let me say that everyone who comes from Styria is extremely proud of us as we follow the development of the University of Maribor. The Maribor "alma mother" is becoming complete. And even with these changes resulting from this change of decree, the University will be even more global, Maribor, All-Slovenian and when medical studies for medical professions were introduced two years ago and now the Faculty of Health Sciences, Maribor is becoming a more complete university city. We firmly believe that the University of Maribor will continue to play its role in Slovenian society and that with such a complete University in Maribor it will also become the area of Styria more developmental, perspective that Styria will become that important part of Slovenia or the movement of the development of Slovenia as it once was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. In the LDS Club, we will support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Maribor, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the Faculty of Health Sciences deserves this name, and we look forward to the new opportunities opened up by this university, especially in terms of tertiary education at the highest level for the highest academic titles. At the same time, we see this as an important step towards, on the one hand, the complete University of Maribor, on the other hand, the expansion of tertiary education in northeastern Slovenia. Even more so, because the Faculty of Education also received or transformed into the Faculty of Education, along with the Faculty of Philosophy, which is very important in the field of science and technology, namely the Faculty of Science and Mathematics. This is certainly a very important supplement and a very important addition and, as I said, the path to the perfect University of Maribor. At the same time, in the parliamentary club, we are faced with information that, unfortunately, funding is not yet provided at the same level throughout Slovenia. It is sad, most stabs this fact that similar programmes of the Faculty of Physics and Mathematics are, say, more funded in Ljubljana than science and mathematics in Maribor. We believe that this will change in the future, and so it is also true that the conditions for education throughout Slovenia must be the same, equivalent and all students, of course, deserve a comparable level of education, much more so if we remember that only in the case of the University of Maribor medical school did the local community provide twice the euro of its own resources for the establishment of a university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you, too. We are done with the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word of a colleague, Josef Jerovšek. Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Milan Petk. He's not here. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor. He doesn't pay attention. A fellow Slavinec! You're giving up. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. If there is something else to be added to what I have said in the Group's opinion, then it is certainly of paramount importance that the programmes we have discussed open up educational opportunities for those professions that are targeted at people, for those professions that are generally more open to the women's population, which, given the level of education, gives me even more optimism in this part of the population. I only hope that the economic reasons will not ever return as boomerang to these findings and will once again find that there is no need for such a high school education in order to carry out certain professions, as we see it for a variety of teaching professions. It seems to me that by increasing the spectrum of study programmes, which are inexpressible neither humanistic nor natural, but by looking at the direction and the areas that represent the subject of the study, they are really more connected to the nature of where they are directed, but they are more human-oriented, but we are hunting the balance between the individual privileged or the society's more desirable directions. When we are talking about the University of Maribor and what the country is actually planning for higher education, then let me take this opportunity only to conclude that it would be very good to have a national programme that would open the way for the study to move, especially because it would be good for us to follow developed countries, nations with a long-standing university tradition, which sees that humanist studies as the basis of the education and culture of a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you, too. We are done with the debate between Members and Members. We will use option 71 of the Rules of Procedure and allocate the time available to potential debaters. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you. We have also concluded this debate. In the absence of any proposed amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution, the assembly will hold its decision-making session today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour or at 2.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue the meeting, as we say, at 2.45 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u38	Dear Members. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for decisions. Before we move to a decision, allow me to remind you again to check your voting devices. In accordance with established practice, the so-called orange lamp must burn on the right side of the card. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Commission's report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2005. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals of the two decisions, which we are moving on to a decision on the first decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the first decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the second decision. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And that concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 13th item of the agenda - this is through the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk. We're moving on to decision-making. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the decision on the work body of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Maribor. We're moving on to decision-making. At the same time, I would also like to inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the decision on the work body of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the International Organization for Migration. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who submitted a written report to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on one side and the Republic of Albania on the other side of the final list. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also submitted a written report to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION TEXTS. I propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposal to vote together on all official purified texts. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I shall then put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: formal consolidated texts - Law on Fire Protection, Law on Social Protection, Law on Intangible Securities, Law on the Support Environment for Entrepreneurship, Law on Notariat, Law on Offences, Law on Enforcement and Insurance, Law on Registration of Election Rights, Law on National Professional Qualifications, Law on Maturity, Law on Guidance of Children with Special Needs, Law on Gymnasiums, Law on Trade, Law on Tax Service and Law on Excise. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially consolidated the texts of those laws. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Allow me, however, to welcome guests to the National Assembly before we move on to Mandate-Voluntary matters, a visit from the municipality of Sevnica. Welcome. And as a matter of fact, we're moving on to mental-voluntary matters. Under this item, the Assembly considered for the first time the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the Ombudsman. Secondly, 16 proposals by the Judicial Council for election to judicial office. Thirdly, the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services and for the fourth time, the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the incompatibility of the exercise of a public function with a gainful activity. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. As it is said, for the first time, we are moving on to the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect the Ombudsman. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed by letter dated 20 November this year to the National Assembly that Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik be elected the Ombudsman. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Magdalena lorry, to give the opening statement. Please step for the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u39	Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for the opportunity and opportunity that I want to take to refresh my memory very briefly of the three important steps that have been taken since the Ombudsman's invitation to tender in the Republic of Slovenia. The first important step was taken by a prominent man, Dr Felc's primarium, who, on the basis of his long-standing monitoring and knowledge of the personal and professional skills of Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, felt that he could take on a responsible mission, such as the protection of human rights in the country, and he wrote a proposal for her candidacy. The second step was taken by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who decided to propose to the National Assembly of Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik, a wide-ranging and educated candidate who has always put the person at the forefront of her work so far, especially when she was in distress. A person who understands a person will likely understand human rights well, or in other words, he will be able to protect them better and use all available mechanisms to prevent their violations. The third most important step, honourable Members and Members, belongs to you. To a large extent, you have already set it up by allowing in the beginning a largely unknown candidate to present herself in your parliamentary groups. She presented herself in all the parliamentary groups, including those who gave her their support in advance. The Institute of the Ombudsman is too important to reduce itself only to the summation of your votes. At the time of the presentation, you asked many questions and the candidate provided answers with which all the parliamentary groups were not fully satisfied. But that seems like a good sign to us rather than a good sign. This means that the candidate did not change her views or her values or their sequence before each meeting with different political parties, as evidenced by her political neutrality or, more importantly, her openness to cooperate with all of them. To solve problems, that's the most important thing. The last step, honourable Members and Members, is again in your hands.Today's vote I understand in particular as your answer to the following question: Does Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik seem serious enough and responsible enough that you can trust her with the protection of human rights in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Truck. The proposal for a law or proposal was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body and drafted a proposal for a decision. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Franz Sušnik, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen! The Human Rights Ombudsman Act in Article 2 provides for the election of the Ombudsman on a proposal from the President of the Republic to the National Assembly. On 20 November 2006, the President of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Zdenko Cebašek Travnik, Dr. She's a specialist in psychiatry. She was born on 13.2.1955. She is a doctor and specialist in psychiatry.She is employed at the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana, where she is an assistant professional director of educational activity, and at the Faculty of Medicine, where she is an assistant at the Department of Psychiatry. The explanation of the proposal states that, on the basis of a notice from the Ombudsman of 20.7.2006, he will be granted a 6-year term on 21 February 2007, on the basis of the Law on the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court Act, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, an invitation to collect proposals for possible candidates for the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman. Thirty potential candidates responded to the call, one candidate and one candidate later resigned. The President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly that Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik be elected Ombudsman. The explanation of the proposal states that the candidate for the Ombudsman fulfils certain conditions by law and agrees with the application. At the discretion of the President of the Republic, the candidate shall also have adequate knowledge and experience and all other qualities necessary to carry out the duties of the Ombudsman. A more detailed justification or presentation of its activities has also been given for the proposed candidate. Thus, on the basis of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly sent a proposal to the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of Ms. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik for the Ombudsman of Human Rights, which was presented by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The mandate-holder committee discussed the proposal at its 25th meeting, on 13 December 2006, and did not have any substantive comments on the proposal. The mandate-holder committee, in accordance with its powers by a majority of the votes defined, has drawn up a proposal for a decision on the election of the Ombudsman to propose to the National Assembly to confirm the Ombudsman. The mandate-holder considers that the proposal by the President of the Republic for the election of the Ombudsman is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman and harmonised and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the election of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Jožef Horvat, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Magdalena Truck, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests at the gallery! In the New Slovenia Group, we find one new communication between the President of the State and the National Assembly, but this is our conclusion. With the distinguished candidate Dr. Zdenko Cebašek Travnik, we conducted a thorough interview in the parliamentary group. It was a great pleasure to have her visit us. As far as her profession is concerned, she has demonstrated her competence. He's been dealing with a man his whole life, and that's good. Members and Members of the New Slovenia Group asked her many very different questions. We have received satisfactory answers to some questions, we have expected more effective answers to some questions and the New Slovenia Group will vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representative of the President of the Republic, distinguished colleague and colleague, distinguished visitors at the gallery! In opening, let me stress that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the Ombudsman, Dr Zdenko Cebašek Travnik, in today's vote. We have decided on this in the parliamentary group soon after the President of the Republic proposed it for this important function, and we have not changed the decision since the candidate presented to the parliamentary group. Two main reasons led us to such a decision, for the first time, its references or its work so far, and for the second time, the personal and professional reputation and confidence in the first candidate of her candidacy, Dr Felc. We are aware that the Ombudsman's work in the area of human rights improvement requires a very broad knowledge of the issue, and in particular willingness to make an objective assessment and sound proposals. In the case of objective warning alone, the response of all bodies committed to positive treatment in this area and to the preparation of individual measures will also be directed in the right direction. Dr Zdenka Čebašek Travnik has demonstrated with her work so far that she can listen to the most endangered groups of our citizens and citizens. I cannot ignore the fact that in these days we receive various letters and e-mails, messages where writers express both positive and negative opinions on the suitability of the proposed candidate. A personal view of those who are coping with the pressures of individuals is, of course, different and reflects satisfaction or dissatisfaction with solving a particular problem. However, it is important for us to believe that the candidate is able and willing to draw attention to the problems, to also draw attention to legislative shortcomings and thus to contribute to the improvement of the human rights situation. As I have already announced, we will support the candidate in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present and to those who accompany us! Perhaps I will be a little different from the speakers before me, but allow me to connect only with a word or two or maybe a sentence or two to the work of that office, i.e. the Office of the Ombudsman, in the past with which we were not satisfied in the Slovenian National Party. In our view, many of the burning areas remained intact, while they constantly opened up and emphasized only questions about the status and regulation of the area of two or three target groups of the population. Is an impatient, hateful speech really a legitimate way of fighting social or group intolerance? I'm the judge, no. There is no excuse, and if anyone, then the Ombudsman is the first to be called in society not to potentiate or spread impatience, but to warn against it and also to fight it in an acceptable and respectful manner. In this respect, we have a positive experience in the Slovenian National Party in view of the first interview we have had with the Ombudsman's candidate, Mrs Cebašek Travnik. In the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we were essentially opposed to the arbitrary decision of the President of the State, who fully subordinated himself to the power to propose a candidate or candidate, despite calls for the President to hold an interview before the final election with the parliamentary parties. Last but not least, it is Parliament that decides on the proposed candidate or candidate. Failure to cooperate with the President - in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have not received an answer to the request - in fact, it points to its ignorance of the legislative branch of power, which is a bad thing in democratic society. So much worse because we are deciding on an important institute which should also be properly characterized in Slovenian society or should also enjoy a better reputation in Slovenian society and, above all, have more power to act, not just in style by the lawyer of the written letter, that the law speaks about this and this and that the Ombudsman is therefore not competent to solve a particular problem. It is the wish of the Slovenian National Party in the future to bring the Institute closer to people, users, in terms of greater accessibility. The fact is, in the law itself, the procedure for taking initiatives to the Office of the Ombudsman is very complicated, even for an adult. As a result, this also means limiting people’s accessibility and, in practice, access to this aspect is limited or impossible for children with neither knowledge nor ability to meet formalities. And since I have already mentioned children, children in our society are still a disadvantaged category of people, because they are smaller, less vocal, they are usually subordinate to the rights of adults. Unfortunately, children still have only so-called mini rights. That the problem is really hot and that children are the most common victims of adults, many experts at home and abroad warn. However, the consequences of inappropriate treatment of children are reflected in various areas, but, in particular, usually in secret, they have an impact on mental health and consequently integrated human health. In light of the above, the Council of Europe has joined the project to build Europe with and for children. Since the Convention on the Rights of the Child remains largely a single letter on paper, several measures have been taken following the adoption of the said documents, which are aimed at preventing and improving the effectiveness of child protection. In this respect, it is a sad finding, not only for me, the Slovenian national parties or local experts in this area, but also for the international public, respected, professional and political. Slovenia is still among those countries within the framework of the European Union that do not have legislation prepared and adopted to prohibit any violence. Even more; corporal punishment even among the high representatives of our society is tolerated as a welcome educational measure, which is sad and unacceptable. Domestic violence against children is also a system of judicial action in cases of sexual violence against children and adolescents in particular. This part of the story and many violations of the candidate are well known, since as an expert it was quite often directly present in the proceedings where it also considered that there were unacceptable irregularities at the expense of the victims in the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, these are a number of areas that have remained hidden in the past, almost untouchable, but are part of the reality and part of the unacceptable violations of children's rights and thus of human rights. Why did I focus on children's rights? In her presentation to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the candidate stressed that, in her work, she would focus on the issue of children and all forms of domestic violence, i.e. those areas of work that were neglected by the Slovenian National Party in the work of the Ombudsman. The reorganisation of the work of the office itself will promote a more accessible and more friendly attitude especially towards children and more vulnerable groups of people or individuals. I'll finish with the fact. We live in a democratic country where human rights should be of fundamental value. It is important which person we have at the top of an institution which, globally not only locally in the field of Slovenia, has a great importance and an indispensable place in society. From this place, I hope and wish that Mrs Cebašek Travnik is a person who will act in accordance with the objectives set out, priorities set and, of course, the basic mission of the Office of the Ombudsman to the benefit of all citizens and citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you. I would ask the honourable Members, on behalf of respect for the candidate as well as for the speaker, to give appropriate attention. As you all probably know, the word in the National Assembly has only one person who conducts his private conversations, of course it can go out. My colleague, Jože Tanko, will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone. The President of the Republic, Dr Janez Drnovšek, presented to the National Assembly a proposal for a decision on the new Ombudsman. Dr Zdenko Čebašek Travnik has chosen from a wide range of 28 candidates. We are aware of the irrefutable right of the President of the Republic to decide for himself which of the candidates he considers appropriate will propose for this responsible, independent, theoretical and morally challenging function. It is also his decision to draw up a proposal for a candidate most likely to receive sufficient support in the National Assembly for the appointment, in which case the votes of the 60 Members. In doing so, we cannot ignore the fact that the President of the Republic has bypassed the public expression of the initiative and expectations of most of the parliamentary groups that will decide on his proposal to meet with him and communicate their expectations and views to him. When the President of the Republic did not respond to the clear initiatives of the parliamentary groups, which have more than 90% of the votes in the current vote and which form the basis of the democratically elected authorities in the Republic of Slovenia, he put the legislative authority in a very unpleasant position. I believe that the President of the Republic, with such moves, indicates or communicates his political tendencies that he is much closer to the Presidential democracy than to parliamentary democracy. It is true that his advisor made a visit to our parliamentary group and cited the names of some of the candidates. However, such a procedure did not allow for a serious debate in the Group of Members until the President of the Republic decided and forwarded the proposal to the National Assembly. Only then did we get to know the name of the candidate, her biography, her professional work and other materials. On the basis of the facts, we decided in the Group of Members that each Member would vote in the manner it considers appropriate. Otherwise, the Ombudsman’s work and findings are largely based on a comparison of the legal standard with the actual situation. So, on how well, how quality and effective the legal rights of citizens are met. At the same time, it must be said that we have done a great deal in some areas over the past two years. I'll list some: the health field is one of those. According to data from the interpretation of the Liberal Democracy against the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan, within one year of the minister's term of office, the waiting period of patients was reduced by an average of 25%. The number of waiting was reduced by an average of 20%. It must be acknowledged that a huge step has been taken towards improving the situation, although this has been one of the main points of view to the Minister. As an improvement in this area, the reasons for citizens' complaints are significantly reduced by significantly increased accessibility. I hope that the quality of services and the satisfaction of patients will also improve as the equipment and speed of intervention improves. Another sensitive area is legal certainty and trial within a reasonable time. Good legislative corrections have also been adopted here, which undoubtedly reduces the deadlines for the initiation and completion of judicial proceedings. I hope that the independent branch, once we have properly provided the tree, will bear fruit and that there will also be cases that will require the intervention of the Ombudsman and the European Court of Human Rights as little as possible. Reducing the types of those waiting for work also reduces the types of those waiting for some forms of transfers. Here too, as in the above cases, because of different situations and different understandings of the rights and duties of border situations, there can be a great deal. However, if the numbers go down, we can expect a reduction in the number of situations at stake. We have done a lot in these and a number of other areas in the coalition in this mandate. At the same time, we would like to tell you what we expect from the new guardian. We certainly want him to seriously commit himself to his work, to act with patience, with soundness of mind, and to pursue solutions to problems with thoughtfulness. We know from experience that in everyday life there are many problems, many contentious situations and decisions affecting citizens in their rights. The solution is not limited to specific situations and complications between officials and citizens, but also to incomplete and inconsistent rules. However, the guardian’s task is not to act as soon as he detects the problem of turning to a foreign environment. We expect him to turn first to local authorities and institutions and that we are first trying to find solutions at home. We also expect that the guardian will be respectful of all citizens, that he will no longer compare them with the worst criminals, if they accidentally take a different position from his own. We expect him to maintain the same distance, the same attitude towards all citizens, to all authorities and to all forms of belonging. So we expect that the Ombudsman will no longer use the xenophobic approach and offensive qualifications of any of the groups and that he will completely ignore the indecent or even illegal conduct of others. For example, the current Ombudsman has completely overlooked the conduct of one of our fellow Members, who is also the mayor and who, as a professional politician, has allowed himself to invite people to barricades, civil disobedience, the destruction of the rule of law, racial intolerance and so on. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you. Please, Comrade Squeakle, allow me, my colleague Tanka has the floor and only him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u51	I must be honest with you that we do not really need such a guardian, who so selectively approaches the protection of human rights. It is also twofold that no one has responded to such calls to the barricades; neither his parliamentary group, nor the party, nor the party president. And it is impossible to expect a higher level of human rights if in real life we face such an unconstant approach not only of individuals but of groups or even of parties. This case is a typical example of the link between policy and public non-response of the competent institutions, or an example of a selective approach. If this is ours, there is nothing, there is no breach, there is no need to warn anyone, but if such an action is committed by someone else, they will activate all the institutions there to Brussels. For example, if one of the politicians is killed for a embarrassing statement or a misdemeanor, the other is completely overlooked by a similar matter. A while ago, in the Tarča broadcast, one of the Members admitted that the so-called Kosovo Commission had not reported all the assets. Taista also said that it did so to more of her colleagues. And the result? All quiet. The silent research media, the party and the parliamentary group were silent, more or less the Kosovo commission was also bypassed, and the Ombudsman did not respond. There was no response to this apparent inequality, when the rights of one person were certainly violated and with the silent consent of the recognised excesses and substituencies of the other. And there are many other cases like this. Dear colleagues! The work of the Ombudsman's Institute, which has the task of alerting to violations of citizens' rights, is very responsible and sensitive. In all European democracies, it is withdrawn from daily political stories [[End warning sign]] and is not abused in the citizens' and policy-making accounts, and the Ombudsman's actions and findings are an important guide to improving power. In the parliamentary group we expect and want the new guardian to find a balance between expertise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u52	Comrade Tank, your time!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u53	his office - a minute more - and a media flash [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u54	I can't give you this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u55	I'm sorry. I was interrupted before, wasn't I? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u56	Comrade Tank, your time is up. You know the rules of the game. Thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u58	Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u59	Your Honors are here! Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik came to the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, where most met her for the first time. As a result, we have all the more carefully listened to her presentation and asked questions from various areas, as well as related to the various areas of her future action, i.e. the activities of the Ombudsman for whose function she is proposed. After the conversation, she made a good impression on the audience. It has shown a positive attitude towards the protection of human rights, and this to various rights, to all rights, as well as to all people, to different people, regardless of their social status, religion, race and, last but not least, to the political definition, since it has never been politically defined and acted, but it has, above all, acted professionally in an area that is very difficult. We all know that hard work is with people, and even more so with people seeking the help of professionals, doctors like her; and she did her work properly and fairly. All right, because of this professional stance and due to the good attitude and obedience to the rights of everyone else, and in particular because she has taken up her work as a mission and not just as a profession, we are confident that she will be able to do so also as a function for which it is proposed that the Ombudsman should take up this function not only as a profession but as a mission that will do well. This is why, of course, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the proposal to elect Dr Zdenko Čebašek Travnik as the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you. Magistress Majda Potrat will give the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Dear Mrs Magdalena Truck, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Ombudsman in 1993 and today, after so many years, we are given the opportunity to elect the first Ombudsman. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we knew about the candidate for the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik, only from her replies in public opinion and from a letter from the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who proposed this function, so we have also received answers to a number of other questions, which relate mainly to how she, as the Ombudsman, will take up not only individual human rights, but also when human rights will be violated to groups of citizens and citizens. We are of the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, which is why the function of the Ombudsman is of paramount importance. In the past, in the minds of people, this institution has been well established and allow me to supplement this claim with some real information. The 2006 Social Perspective publication, published by Umar, provides an answer to the question of how people's trust in institutions and how much trust other people have in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me start with the last one. If we measure trust in others by what is expected of others, it is surprising that patterns of trust are generally similar to those of institutions. Slovenia is ranked 3.98 on the 10th scale as a group of European countries with least positive expectations for human behaviour. The data is from the European Social Survey 2002. According to the same survey, the people of 20 European countries on average have the least confidence in politicians. Even after this study, Slovenia belongs to a group of countries with a strong lack of confidence in policies and institutions. The Slovenian public opinion also shows a similar picture of distrust in institutions. The family, educational institutions, Banka Slovenije, tolar and among them have been at the top of their trust, since their trust has been measured, including the Ombudsman. The sum of those who trust him in full and trust him very much is moving over half. 50.8% in 2005 to the highest confidence in 2003, when this was 55.3%. And if we add to this the choice of the Ombudsman, Matjaž Hanžka, for his personality in 2006, then the image of trust in this institution is concluded. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group of Members, we believe that the new Ombudsman will also be able to carry out certain tasks by law: the Ombudsman is an independent and independent person elected by the National Council for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in relation to state authorities, local self-government authorities and holders of public powers. The Ombudsman may investigate cases of illegal or irregular work by the State authorities and, in his work, shall comply with the provisions of the Constitution and international human rights and fundamental freedoms legal acts. It can also refer to the principles of fairness and good governance in its intervention. And Article 20 of this Law states that the Ombudsman cannot be called to account for the opinion or proposal he has made in the course of his duties. We have all these Members and Members of the Social Democrats in front of us when we tell you, honourable Members and Members, that we see in the candidate for the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, a suitable candidate, so that we can say our 'yes' for her candidacy in accordance with our conscience and our conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Member Ivan Grill has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. So, respectable fellows, respectable fellows! I have already told the competent working body myself that I will support this proposal and that I think it is a candidate in all respects on the ground and that the position of the candidate is such that we can expect that there will continue to be some kind of concern for respect for human rights in this institution. I also took the floor because I think we are witnessing some new practice, at least the work of the ruling coalition. We have heard today that everyone will be able to vote as they think it is right. If these things were taken literally, then it is only necessary to look forward to this and I do not wonder whether perhaps not everyone has voted as they thought it was right, but as it was absolutely necessary. Mr. Pojbič, if you want to say something, this place is the desire of your wise thoughts and yourself. [[...]] [[Laugh]] Even so, only. [[...]] I fear, however, that this formulation is that everyone can vote in the way he thinks it is right that this formulation is a framework in which we will get the victim of this proposal very quickly. I hope I'm wrong and I won't speculate further. But if you don't, I'm going to come forward for the first time, and I'm going to go back to the word, and I'm going to tell you how the conscience is used in this room. However, this formulation certainly allows for something that is not inherent to this coalition. This formulation allows you to move forward, I will say, the ruling party and its passengers wash their hands for possible non-voting of the candidate. In this, I will say, the core of the message is to the leader of the Group of Members. We will finally vote in our conscience and no one will take responsibility for this. Ladies and gentlemen! The Institute of the Ombudsman is one of the constitutional and important institutes. And if there were no major comments to the lady's candidacy, except for the correct opposition to the SNS, then one would expect greater or full support. We will see, ladies and gentlemen, what it means to vote on your conscience if it is not again one of those manoeuvres with which the Slovenian public is drawn. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Thank you very much. I take care of myself, that's why I'm talking. And you, if you're going to argue with me, gentlemen, raise your hand and give your arguments to the public. This hinting down the halls, from the bench and so on, it seems to me that once should be enough. You've got enough votes and responsibilities to raise your hand, and if you're allowed to say what you're thinking, say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your contribution. Allow me to fix it. In the presentation of the views, the Slovenian National Party's delegation said it would support the candidate. That is why I am obliged from this city to correct or correct your misstatement. We continue the debate. The text within the available time [[I think it's just for a few seconds.]] There's a Member of the Maja Shirtz. My mistake, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u65	Well, in a short time, I'm just going to point out that I'm happy with these nominations. And I would call upon those who left their conscience open to perhaps reconsider, even in the light of the negative image that was reported today between the lines at least by a representative of the largest coalition party, which was not supposed to be the guardian, to be different from the previous. In short, if thought remains open, of course, so a guardian who will be quiet when something goes wrong that will understand the media in isolation, and so that she will notice only those good works of the government as understood by the Government, of course. For today we have witnessed good works, and not at all in the field of human rights, in short, all that Mr Hanžek has told us in recent years about the Government's lack of work. In short, I would just like to point out that for the last time, consider what the real conscience is when voting on this very good proposal from the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think we are Members in one of the most difficult decisions, purely in person. Because I believe in the well-intention of all Members of Parliament, and I believe that everyone wants to have a happy hand in the selection of the Ombudsman, so that for the next six years it would mean actually protecting human rights, actually acting in the interests of human rights, and therefore I do not understand two of my predecessors, who, in stressing the right of Members to vote on their own decisions, see something bad, see a directive and see everything wrong. I do not know what the values or the basis of such opinions are, and I personally have to reject them, because I think that prejudgmenting the votes of Members by neighbouring benches is something unheard of. Whatever individual Member decides, this will be a legitimate decision. I think that the message, which from the beginning is the same as for Members to make their own decisions, is one that is worthy of all respect. I'll support the candidate myself. While at the time of her candidacy, I have followed with attention the decision of the President of the State, who, in turn, made his decision in a more specific manner than we expected, and even after all public reactions, when the decision of the President of the country was known. I think that positive thoughts or positive features of the candidate have been expressed by some people who are generally known and on whom credibility can be relied upon. It seems to me that if such a person expresses himself positively, it is as if I share the opinion of a friend, whom I can say I am putting my hand in the fire for him, for his values and his attitude. For this reason, once again, I am concerned that the only problem that is present in observing our decision is that our colleagues are upset that we are not attacking the candidate, because in this case they would have supported her so much more because they want to be in opposition to our position. I think that what was said to be the first victim of such an attitude will be more relevant to these benches, because if they are not as busy as they are now, then a predetermined victim from your seats is predetermined. I would therefore ask that you do not act that way in this important decision. The fact is, I want the Ombudsman to be as independent as possible in her mandate. I believe she's raised for some values, that she has some relationship, that she has some views, and that it's hard to jump out of those views. I don't know them. However, I think, I hope that it will be able to raise itself above personal opinions and that it will actually work within the framework of the statutory rules and actions of the Ombudsman. Once again, well, with such hope, I will support the candidate and hope that he will have a happy hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you, too. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Something has already been said by my colleagues. I just want to say this. In my opinion, the actual situation that we are witnessing this time is being exaggerated in a way that is not favourable to the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms in our country. Despite the fact that the President of the Government claimed that the rule of law is currently not in danger to us, I am convinced that it is and that there is some kind of erosion of the rule of law in Slovenia. In this respect, I am also of course convinced that the role of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman is of paramount importance, essential for the further development of our democracy and for the further strengthening and strengthening of the protection and guarantee of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, of course, I will support today's candidate proposed by the President of the State in the National Assembly, because I would also like to stress that I trust in his choice and that he probably can't care whether his proposal in the National Assembly will run into support or not. In a personal way, I would prefer someone to be the guardian of this moment in Slovenia, who also has more legal knowledge, especially because the National Assembly has rejected the appointment of two deputies of the Ombudsman, who are both legal graduates, and I believe that the essence of this function is actually knowledge of the law. But of course, the fact that the candidate lady is not a lawyer does not mean that she would be considered inappropriate. On the contrary, with the new two deputies, I can certainly replace this deficit in my office, and in this regard I hope that next time, colleagues and colleagues, you will be more benevolent when the Ombudsman is elected or appointed here today, and that you will also be in favour of her proposal. I think it is important, however, that the candidate of this candidate has assessed that this is a person who has an extremely great feeling for people in distress, and this is also a moment that should be very important in this regard when we decide whether we will support the candidacy or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you, too. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u71	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! But I would like to return to the candidate we're talking about today, Dr. Zdenki Chebašek Travnik. I'm not going to rely, of course, on who proposed it. It is known that the President of the State must propose this. I'd rather lean on the one he suggested to him. It is, however, an icon of Slovenian humanism at the moment and a man who certainly is careful not to stain his name. It's kind of enough for me, but it wouldn't be enough for me not to doubt. However, Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik, I know her work, but especially the wide spectrum of this work, and it is not only about dealing with alcoholism and its consequences, but also about everything she carries with her this form of addiction. I certainly have nothing to worry about that she will not be able to assess the areas of human rights, which are certainly always at risk. I'm sure it's one of those important things in every society that's never been completed. Thus, there can be no authority, no government, no system to ensure that they can say so, and now there is no need to worry about human rights. Of course, one may be more at risk than the other, but it is a matter that needs to be taken care of every day. Just like freedom and stuff. These are things that we never reach such perfection that we can believe that they will remain forever. In addition to Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik having a lot of knowledge, I think it is important, at least for this work, that he also has a lot of energy. This will certainly not be easy, and when I give all of these qualities and let's say some of my disagreements with her work on the scale, it will actually be quite easy for me to decide "yes", without calculation, without distraction, without thinking about how to vote if someone else votes differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you, too. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. You're giving up. Member Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At the presentation of the candidate in our parliamentary group, I had a very good feeling, and later I had doubts about her work so far. In view of these clues, however, she wrote a rather controversial explanation as a court expert to one of the expert opinions. Today I spoke with Mrs Chebaškov and with the person who informed us of this matter, but we were unable to resolve this matter. In short, I couldn't get to where the truth was, either on one side or the other. Of course, the truth is always only one, the truth is gone. It is that this expert opinion was written in some way to the detriment of the patient, in favour of the capital of a large Slovenian company, and this opinion in some way put this person in danger. That is why, of course, I cannot vote "yes", not "against" and I will abstain. However, I am confident that the candidate will receive sufficient support. In some ways, this would be good to avoid any new complications or any new surprise by the President of the country. At the same time, I am convinced that if it turns out that she has ever acted unethically, unprofessionally in her work in the future, that she will be able to do so much power and that she will also resign from this function. I would like to say something else about the current Ombudsman, Mr Hanžk, about whom there is a lot of talk between the lines today or quite directly. I personally have a very good experience with Mr. Hanzko. Two months after attempting my liquidation, Mr Hanžek came to me - interestingly, neither the investigating judge nor the prosecutor on duty came to the scene. Mr. Hanzek came to me, rang the bell, and we talked for hours. My personal experience with him is very good, and I think it was a guardian who wasn't floating around in academic circles, but he was a man who came home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you, too. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I will support the proposal by the President of the State for the appointment of Dr Zdenka Cebašek Travnik for the Ombudsman. Dr. Chebashkov, I don't think I've ever met in my life, even though she was born Prekmurka. Nor do I find it difficult to admit that I am always a few patriots, and I am prepared to support the candidate who comes from my environment a little easier. More importantly, however, Dr. Chebaška has references that are more important than all of this. Also, the fact that the doctor was in general medical practice and later a psychiatrist - fortunately, I did not meet with her - and is already an important reason why of 28 or 30 candidates, she was chosen or proposed or that they might have stepped down two names. What was the way, the procedure of the President of the State, I have no problem with that. But it's interesting, and it makes it easier for me to make this decision, because all the members of the group, at least that's how I feel, have had a positive feeling about her presentation. And also when she introduced herself to us - at the time I met her for the first time - our feelings were positive, because she was a candidate who presented herself as a patient, judgmental, professional, human, and as one of her colleagues said she was a widely viewed psychiatrist who would be able to protect or warn about human rights, especially their violators. I think that this is a basic guide and a reason enough to support the candidate in today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you. Is there another candidate, Mrs. Tovornikov? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u77	Dear Mr. President! I would like to take this last opportunity in particular to thank the individual Members and Members, as well as the representatives of the Group of Members, for the in-depth analysis of this important proposal. We can see that expectations are very high, consistent, fully consistent with the importance that Members and Members of Parliament, the proposer and also the candidate are attributed to the Ombudsman's Institute. No one is complete, and you have found that the proposed candidate has significant experience mainly in relation to the treatment of people and if there are shortcomings in the handling of papers, then I thank all those who understand that she will be able to organise herself in her work and take advantage of all the knowledge she does not have. It seems important to me that you have been pleased with the presentations and perhaps this is an opportunity to recall that these types of presentations have not been carried out by previous candidates. It is true that I have remembered your resentment, which is valid for the President, because he has not consulted with the representatives of the parliamentary groups, but if the presentation of the candidate herself can take away this important process, then the damage is minor. Of course, there is no telling in the presentations all about the very broad area of human rights, to which the area of children's rights also belongs. None of us live long enough to forget that we were kids once. And, thank God, this European society is very attentive to this and I think that the candidate has also made this very serious mention and is planning if you trust her with your group voice or voice in her own conscience that she will do so. I also think it is very important that Mr Tank, President of the SDS Group, drew attention to the relationship between the domestic public and the expectations and between Europe. Of course, the candidate and future Ombudsman will be a member of this great European family, and I think she has also said at the presentations that she will do as she does in these cases. This means that you take advantage of your presence in the European family with your colleagues to consult with them, to use models of good practice that they know elsewhere, and only when you find out that you've taken full advantage of your options at home and that we don't know, we can't or we don't, only then will you call for the help of the first man of human rights. Otherwise, the same rules apply here as in the European Court of Human Rights. Finally, allow me once again to express my sincere thanks for all these in-depth analyses, and on behalf of the applicant and on behalf of the candidate, I want to thank you once again for giving her your vote. I'm sure you won't be mistaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of Dr Zdenka Čebašek Travnik for the Ombudsman for a period of six years. It shall enter into force on 22 February 2007. Before voting, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on the Ombudsman, a candidate for the Ombudsman will be elected if two-thirds of all members of the National Assembly vote for her, 60 or more. We're voting. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 for them, against no one. [[...]] [[in favour of 64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and the National Assembly for the Ombudsman has elected Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnik. I ask Dr. Zdenko Chebašek Travnik to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u79	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good conduct. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Thank you very much. Dear National Assembly, Mr President, all Members and Members of Parliament. I am proud that the President of the State, Dr Drnovšek, appointed me as a candidate for the Ombudsman and thus became a guardian. I thank all the Members who have given me the opportunity to present my view of the Ombudsman's work, to be able to clear up some vague things and to express your confidence in me at the final stage. I believe that we will work together in the future and that we will find the right solutions, especially for those groups of people who are in distress and who do not find their own way out of it. Again, thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u80	I wish Mrs Cebašek Travnik, on behalf of the National Assembly, the successful protection of human rights in the next term. At the same time, I should like to thank the Ombudsman, Mr Hanzk, for his work. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for electoral decisions. The Council of Justice submitted 16 proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of the four District Courts at the District Court in Ljubljana and New Town and the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, eight District Judges and four District Judges at the District Court in Ljubljana, Montenegro, Velenj, New City, Domžalah, Kranju, Ptuj, Brežica, Trbovija and Krškem. Does the representative of the Council of Justice want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alja Cerovšek Magajna to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There was a mistake, there was no reprogrammed vote, I apologize, we have to vote again. Is this thing settled? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sabine Valek Derganc to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 56 Members and a Member of Parliament present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Juret Likar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] It notes that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Bojana Maravic, to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Jožet Petrovčič as judge of the District Court in Montenegro. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Ferd Cwickl as the judge of the District Court in Velenj. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Irena Matekovic to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Anica Grilj to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Valentine Radonjič to the District Court of Justice in Domžal. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ksenija Kristl to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Maja Zorman Krč to the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Milena Hebar Škamlec to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. In my vote, I propose a decision on the election of Mrs Goranka Franz Ravbar to the District Court in the District Court in Brežice. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Samantha Kravanje to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Slavko Vran as a judge of the District Court in the District Court in Trbovje. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Milena Ahacič Pirc to the District Court in the District Court in Krška. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We're done voting on the judges. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the New Slovenia parliamentary group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Magi. Franca Capudra with the function of member and the election of mags. Janez Drobnič as a member of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10, paragraph 2, of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, a decision will be taken if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the New Slovenia parliamentary group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Magi. Franca Capudra with the function of Vice-President and the appointment of mags. Mr Janez Drobnič as Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 23rd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I invite everyone to the lobby of the great hall to join us in congratulating Parliament, Dixon Banda, on the coming new year.
