ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and honourable Members, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, co-worker of the Minister! Good morning! We begin the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The second day before us is when we talk about man’s most precious values, so I sincerely hope that we will find him together honestly, for health. I am starting only on the subject, and before that, let me just inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: it says mag. Janez Drobnič, but I see him and I also welcome him back in our midst, then Mr Anton Kokalj from 11 a.m. on, Mrs Maria Possonec, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. We continue with the list of applicants and give my word to Mr Jerič. Mr. Jerič, the word is yours. [[He's quitting.]] Then we have Mr. Viceroy's list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must honestly admit that I have applied so much more for the reserve. However, when I listened very carefully yesterday to the charges first or to the comments of respected colleagues who submitted the interpretation and then to the Minister's replies, I concluded that there was a lot of advertising or no need, because it was very reasoned and very precise, exactly, sometimes very extensive, because it was not possible otherwise, because the charges were also very extensive, in some ways he well rejected all the allegations. However, I would take advantage of this opportunity that I have, and I would also point out certain things that are not good in health and which Minister Bručan, I say, has done quite well. One of the biggest sights you've ever served him was overprivatisation in health care. On this subject, we had an interesting conversation yesterday with one of the initiators of interpretation. And I agree that it is unacceptable, if that is the case, and here, Minister, of course, I ask for your further activities that a doctor, a respected expert employed in the public sector, also act as a private. When a person was recently sent out for a specialist examination, she was told that she would have to wait, I think it would be sometime before late spring for her turn. However, since this specialist also worked as a private agent, he could have come to him against payment, then, after this public service, as my colleague Gaber said yesterday, he was fired as a bullet. That is, after paying someone in private, you can quickly get on the public road to earlier and faster action. The Minister called on us all yesterday, which can only be done on the basis of concrete cases. I welcome such debates in the National Assembly if they help to ensure that the anomalies in the future occur at least to a lesser extent if we cannot eliminate them completely. But it's impossible to get rid of them, but I'm afraid it's true. For the system, which, of course, was not built by the minister, is some mastodon to whom it is, I believe that sometimes it is difficult to resist. And in the course of this debate, we said something else yesterday. What would happen if today, I don't know, this is a serious hypothesis, but if from now on all people in Slovenia could be healthy, 100% healthy. I wonder how much less money this system we would have, whether it was, doesn't matter, let's say we were building it, I don't know, 50 years or more. We've never had so much medical knowledge and even medical knowledge. We have never had more knowledge of how the disease heals. I'm probably never saying that to myself, but I think it's true, we've never put so much money into being healthy. And society is getting sicker and sicker. My colleague Majda is whispering because she's getting old. I also know people who are old and very old and very good at reading and living. Let's take a look at our Olympics, how the sensor walked on the platform, when we were all proud of him, even when he did, I think the then President Clinton showed a very encouraging gesture. So it's not just the age that makes society sick. But despite all the knowledge, despite all the enormous means that we use to do so, people are getting sicker and sicker. Since there is a very current so-called second opinion, "second opinion", I must tell my colleague Flower Zalokar Orazem, because one of the indications was that the Minister had not yet introduced mandatory vaccination. I think you mentioned cancer on the cervix. You know, there's another opinion here, which also speaks very eloquently about various vaccines, which I do not claim to be such, because I can't judge this, but talking about different vaccines, how harmful they are and how we get these vaccines, and how it is in the background of most of the lobbies of the pharmaceutical industry that wants to make a lot of money on this account. If you'd like, Mrs. Zalokar, I'll be happy to give you this article. As I said at the outset, too many concessions were made. In some cases, there are good practices as to how this has somehow benefited people that things are going better. And if they're in Slovenska Bistrica, I think you mentioned this case, the doctors are irresponsible not to be on duty. Yeah, well, then it's only right that they're private and that people will find out that they're not doing the right thing and they won't go to these doctors. I also very much like the thought that the Minister has repeatedly stressed. We will have to be aware that we are either alone or primarily responsible for our health. You know, I can't live completely unhealthyly, eat unhealthyly, make a stressful life, then get sick and come to someone to greet me miraculously. He probably couldn't do it yet, even though he was a miracle healer, but he said your faith greeted you, it wasn't me. And also the doctor thinks he can't heal, but especially the man himself. And when we're well aware of that, I think we'll be on our way. Look, there's one last thing I'd say. I have great respect for people in white and thank you people in white, but also in blue perhaps, but there are also some "experts", experts under the nickname, who, with the help of the whole society or the media in particular, because they can help to create an opinion, do a lot of bad things for the general state of health in society. In doing so, I would like to read an article or a letter that was sent to me by a person who had survived or defeated me many years ago. And he says like this; I'm not going to read the whole thing, but especially what's most important. I think it's best if I just read it because it's all written like that. He says, "I have to take this. My pressure was raised by the low-pitched attacks on Mr Drnovsk and Mr Peterlet's statements, disguised as "great concern", under the nickname which is drawn from some media. What if patients follow the example of two such important public men? The final decision to respond has matured in me when I read articles referring to my health. This term is used in medicine because cancer cannot be fully cured, it can be stopped for a decade or 15 years. Someone wondered how such a statement could be made by a cancer patient who was already very vulnerable and terrified without it, believe me, I have experienced it on my own, and is looking for a life-saving plant that could have resisted. How it affects a person who may have been healthy for 9, 10 years now, sorry, cured, and now is horribly expected to be 10, 11. Do we really care about patients with such statements? Who do we really care about? I also read that high-level statesmen like these two, experts say, should be particularly careful in their statements, as patients trust them. Well said. I'd like to add this. Experts should be particularly careful in their statements, since most patients are blindly trusted. We should be aware of the impact of the statement of an expert who "prescribs" on a cancer patient, under the term again, in the best case scenario, only 10 to 15 years of recovery. They're aware of the convictions they're putting in his subconscious. Unfortunately, such and similar programming takes place day after day. These programmers are aware of their enormous responsibilities. These are powerful things, too powerful to play with. If the statements of these distinguished experts hold, then what's wrong with me, who after 18 years I'm still passionately alive and healthy, I'm sorry, nothing I feel cured. And what happened to many other former patients who are still living, even though their term of "healing" again is long overdue. Life remains an eternal, wonderful secret." You know, I also welcome the Ministry's efforts to regulate this area of medicine, which is now being relied on by the President of the State, and by Mr Peterle. And in your work, Mr Minister, I also wish you a lot of success in the future and try to steer wisely between the various experts and the lobby who are trying to do nothing but profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. On behalf of the candidates, Mrs Zalokar Orazem. Replica, excuse me, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I am pleased that the MPs of the coalition have returned to the Chamber largely, because last afternoon I had the feeling that the Minister had actually remained, and even more so to the evening, that he was completely alone, and that, apart from the fact that you had arranged and arranged certain things in the background, you did not feel or had not had the right arguments to help him. But what I want to say is that yesterday's response was great and I'm sure and I got enough evidence for what we most clearly advocated or read and asked the Minister for his responsibility on behalf of the patients. Here are the e-mails that came to my address tonight. I can tell you a thousand and one story what people wrote to me today after we spoke yesterday. The confirmation that we were right about deceiving and manipulating waiting periods is here a lot. Confirmation of how concessionaires who do not have control work is not all of them, but those who do not have control are enough here. The confirmation is also so much in relation to the other findings that, of course, today I would like to call on the Minister immediately at the outset again for certain answers. Yesterday evening, I think you made it clear twice that vaccination with HPV is already possible in Slovenia. We went to check in, we called on the phone, and we wanted to get vaccinated. Vaccination is not possible, Minister, until you give your signature to an agreement that awaits you in the Ministry, the vaccine is placed on the list and it will be published in the Official Journal. This is evidence, our phone call, last night done, although doctors say exactly what you are, the vaccine is, the price is fixed, they are trained, it is a self-paying service, but unfortunately vaccination is not possible, the doctor does not want to vaccinate if not, but deal with it. The first thing you said was, it's no problem, they can get vaccinated. He talked to his colleague about what and how this payment was related to. Here's the name, last name, Mrs. Angelca from Maribor, describing exactly her story. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u5	Mrs. Zalokar, three minutes, please, if that's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u6	She described the story and made it clear that she wanted to apply to a physiotherapist in September [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u7	Mrs. Zalokar, please. Three minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u8	I'll be right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u9	Thank you, you. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u10	Thank you. We have often heard in our replies that things are older and that the current Government cannot take responsibility for everything that has been left behind in the past, so I promise that in my debate, Mr Bručan, I will only talk about things that concern your term of office. With a few questions, written and oral, I have addressed you and I must say that I have asked you most often for a strategy or a national programme. And I didn't get any answers. When it came to questions related to blood supply, about what will happen to future bleeding in Slovenia, we have not received an answer, but we have adopted a law that I believe is in place to reverse the established good practice of bleeding in Slovenia. When I asked you about the Law on Medicine and Integral Medicine, it was long since answered that the law would be adopted, but it was still not. When I asked you about the arrangement of a free food substitute for breast milk by the age of 6 months of the child's age, it took more than 6 months and a lot of convincing that in the third time you answered me, you would answer the same answer I received at the beginning, namely that we give priority to breast-feeding in Slovenia and that everything is answered in the diet strategy. However, I have specifically pointed out that all mothers cannot breast-feed, that they cannot breast-feed especially the adoptive mother, not the biological mother, and that some things should nevertheless be regulated in legislation on a system of levels, so that this would not be left to the good will of the individual community. I also asked you about the privatisation strategy, but then in the paper you called me a politician who asked about it with some bad intentions. And when you answered my questions to my colleague Kontic, you wrote down some things that I would really like to warn you about now, and before that, I would like to mention just one more thing. I believe that you are not open to dialogue, I think it is underestimating if, on behalf of the Group of Members, we hear that we should not be members of the movement to preserve public health elsewhere if this movement wants to maintain the sign of civil movement. Then why is a society that has the most hierarchical representatives in its kind offered to various non-governmental organisations as totally unrecognizable and globally undeclared people being declared a civil movement or civil society. I thank you, Mr Jazbec, for making an advertisement for the Women's Forum, but then you need to know Article 16 of the Statute of the Social Democrats, which says that in the interest associations, what the Women's Forum is, there is equal participation between sympathizers and party sympathizers. Therefore, the movement should not have the effect of a civil association if one of the sympathizers in a women's forum or in a working relationship, which is also such an association, participates. But now get back to the point. Even such 47,000 signatures cannot convince that privatisation and concessions are not all right. The Social Democrats do not object to the award of concessions as a priori, but if you write in reply that the award of the concession must ensure the operation of the public health service network throughout the area for which the concession is given at least the same quality level, not at a better level, but at least the same quality level, and if the concession is mainly for the transfer of the part of the public service programme to private work with the concession, then we would expect, and we have asked colleagues Kontić several times that the Ministry of Health has at least the control mechanisms well designed to realize that the Minister, together with the local community, also writes, assumes responsibility because he gives consent at the basic level. It is also the responsibility to carry out this activity. I've got two letters in my hand from a number of other people who are talking about the opposite. For more than a year, attempts have been made to ensure the same scope of activities or activities belonging to a public institution under the applicable standards and to provide medical services to a doctor with a concession in this public institution. And I'm sorry, this is where the surveillance went dark because this concessionaire only carries out half the obligation to pay in full. And there are many other ways in which his conduct would prove controversial. And now allow me to point you to just one more problem. And this is the problem of detecting or developing a register of occupational diseases. For petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the Commission adopted, as a specific item on the agenda, a specific treatment of these problems, given that the President of the National Assembly adopted union representatives on Human Rights Day 2004 and that, at that time, it was promised that everything would be done to align Slovenia with other Member States of the European Union and to obtain a register of occupational diseases. At that time, the Secretary of State said that the 2003 regulation, which existed, was a good basis for this, but there were different views on this. Regrettably, at the time of the intervention of the Secretary of State, it was not possible to adopt that decision which would require the Government to supplement the existing regulation even in this direction so that things could or should not be regulated in such a way as to have a register of occupational diseases in Slovenia, if a professional disease is defined as the disease that the patient receives with a job. Only if we are talking about costs should we ask how much savings would be made if we also noticed at the same time in the register of occupational diseases are jobs that create occupational diseases in order to prevent at least those who come to such jobs from becoming sick. Mr Minister, I will support the interpretation against you because I believe that in many points you have not met the expectations, but I have not deliberately, due to a short period of time, touched the spectrum that you should actually see most clearly that there is no strategy, there is no real action to indicate how you will achieve women's reproductive health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mrs Zalokar Orazm because there has been a gap between your expressed desire for replica and the measurement of time. Time has been measured as a candidate, so I allow you to complete your thought as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd like to continue where I ended up. This is a letter from which I think we will best illustrate what is happening at the moment in the field of concessions and what we believe is, we claim and we are convinced that savage privatisation is taking place. Here's Mrs. Angelce's letter, and it says, "When I called the physiotherapist at the end of September, she ordered me on a date of 16.4.2007. She explained that the health insurance company no longer approves any physical therapy at the end of the year. She offered to pay herself and, of course, I accepted and paid 58,000 tolars for 10 physiotherapy because my pains were too long to wait. Ironically, though, the higher physiotherapist had unused appliances, so that in those days we were very few to benefit from these services. In short, the spaces were empty, there was enough time and, in fact, we pull more and more money out of people's pockets every day. That's what people feel about their skin. And if you're saying it's not true, then you're out of your mind. And of course these are the traps of concessionary, besides poor control, which is not or is in such small quantities. And that's what my colleague Znidaršič was talking about last night, who certainly as a doctor laid enough facts, unfortunately, on a deaf night, that everyone sitting in here should imagine. And since it came from the mouth of a doctor with more than 30 years of experience, I think we were obliged to listen to him. And I congratulate him on his up-and-coming performance, even though it seems to me he's been under a lot of pressure to tell the truth here in this room, but of course some of these truths can't be seen because you're being paid for not seeing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Hello! Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Messengers and Members! Today, we are continuing yesterday's debate on health issues, in fact, if I am clear. I must say first that I was a little surprised yesterday at the debate by resident colleague Žnidaršič, perhaps even a little more surprised because we have known each other for so long and we know how things are going in this area. Then this little rallying end of the talk was even more surprising. But that's possible, too. There are various ways in which we agree or disagree with a matter. Now in this speech of colleague Žnidaršič there was a lot of emotion, a lot of emotional charge, but most of his claims here somehow, in fact, I need to pre-examine with them or comment on them. He also spoke first of all about, I think he's not here right now, he was talking about non-execution of the coalition contract. I should say here first that the coalition contract does not apply for two years, but the coalition contract is valid for four years. I went to take a look at the previous period as to how the coalition agreement had been fulfilled. I have to say, in the field of health, maybe 5% or 10%. We have already met it in at least 30%, 40%, so I have no problems on this side, but we could meet it faster if some people understood some of the possible changes that exist around the world and in us. The payment to the socially weak, which is written in the coalition contract and also realised by the adopted health and health insurance law, will be settled. Now, if some are obstructing the way to get there, which is also provided for in the law, their problem is. But you can't print money, you have to get it somewhere. The desire for the budget is one option; in any case, it must be taken here somewhere, and the other option is saved through the implementation of this future law, which is also possible. There is no violation of the rights, however, since the adoption of this law will allow for certain savings in the health treasury. The discussion is also particularly about individual cases such as now Mrs Zalokar, when she presented a case here as an example of a general situation. I have more of these cases in reverse than you have shown here, which praise the way you work in terms of privacy in basic health care. And once again, I think I'm not any advocate or advocate, I'd rather say, privacy in health, but I'll just leave things in this area to develop in terms of better accessibility for patients and in terms of better services for patients. This is the only purpose, no agitator, I don't know any other adjectives you've given me lately, which also proves the number of concessions granted. Here, of course, the numbers are perfectly clear and it is not possible to debate in any other direction. The numbers just tell us how much we awarded concessions, in our time, as much as before, but there was some period of moratorium in the meantime, which was marked as extremely bad. The talk was also about the problems caused by concessionaires who should not be on duty, there was a lot here, I will say, sharp discussions and emotions. But I must say, the wrong case was used. Slovenian Bistrica was not on this case. However, in this case, if this is really happening, as it is supposed to be, and this is not even verified, the Slovenian Bistrica said that all privates went on vacation, which was, of course, denied by the management of the healthcare home, then it is necessary to arrange at the level of the municipality so that such a thing does not happen. However, if the congregation cannot arrange for itself, at least let me know if it is not otherwise. Otherwise, it is difficult to know about each congregation, which is more than 200 congregations, where a health home or a private infirmary is closed. At least let me know and we'll intervene very quickly. Of course, he also talked about the possibility that I agree with. In public institutions there is still a lot of pay for employees, I will say, within some of the equations. And this is actually one of the essential reasons why it is not actually possible for some things to be organised in public institutions as is necessary. He also mentioned that this regulation allows for additional payment only to some. That's not true. It allows all those who will work further and who will prove such work within the framework of an extended programme to reduce waiting periods. Therefore, such interpretations of this Regulation are completely incorrect. Even in a health care home, this is possible, as in a hospital, it will be possible, but of course after prior agreement that such shortening of waiting periods is actually carried out. Then a few more words at all about the role of health homes, as has been reported by many Members, that the role of health homes in the future is unclear. I think that again here I must stress that the evidence of the breakdown of health homes or my underestimation of health homes is not real, that it is not real and has no basis. I have spoken and repeated several times yesterday, and I repeat again today that the departure of concessionaires does not in any way mean a breakdown of the healthcare home, but it certainly requires a reorganisation in the business and organisational field, which will bring a wide range of professional and financial advantages. Some of the functions listed in the Health Act have been changed and phased out and some have been repetitive. He'll have new functions at the health center. And these new functions are certainly a combination of the work of so-called group practice, private - concessionaires as health care providers. And that's what we're looking at right now. In many health homes, such things have already happened. Here I mean Vrhnika and of course Domžale. There are quite a number of private people and things are running relatively well and, of course, such a system could also be used elsewhere. One is Slovenska Bistrica, one of which is already Škofja Loka, where certain problems arise in the origin of this system, which, in the case of the case, need to be resolved. And we solved the case of Škofja Loka on our part, the problem is that, of course, based on this solution, it is not possible to hire doctors now because they do not apply. This, however, is not the result of today's time, but it is the result of catastrophic decisions regarding health education or the number of educational staff in the previous period. It is 1996 and a little later, when it was found that there was enough or even too much in the field of human health care and it was in the direction of not increasing admission to medical school. This has resulted in the situation that we are in today’s medical staff, not to mention, of course, the training of nurses. Here, however, some elements of that targeted education were drawn up up up to two years ago. That is when, thank God, the European Union prevented this system and led to the situation in which we are today in this area of education. I have only said this because I can explain to you why some things cannot be realized despite all the good work and our decisions. For example, Škofja Lok, with his impractical invitation to tender, is one such example. Health care homes can also later serve to improve the assigned and financially defined coordinating role in the professional and organizational field, the curative activities in the healthcare area itself, then, of course, there is a whole range of activities in terms of prevention, adult education in personal health care, then very important activities, emergency medical care and on-call services. These are also provided for in the new law by the Commissions for the Protection of Patients' Rights for the purposes of this municipality. Implementation of a group mortuary-view service and all support services, including X-rays, etc. I think there are a lot of these assignments. The healthcare home remains in the future, and there is no concern that, of course, today we can see that the role of the healthcare home will fail in the future. However, there are some changes that we will have to deal with in one way or another. It's hard sometimes, you have to change things in your head sometimes, and then things happen. As I went to the concession shop, I was shown at a union meeting that was also similar to a small rally, so that people would be unemployed when doctors or some other employees went to concessions. There, I made it clear that I would like to have before me or have the first case reported that someone became unemployed because he left the concessionaire, that someone had obtained a concession and went to concessions. I haven't got any names yet. But it's been about a year now. I don't know the cases myself. If they are, of course, they need to be resolved, arranged, and brought about by doing so, not leading to social problems. These options exist, of course, only because it is necessary to have goodwill, but not priori a negative attitude towards some urgent changes in the future. As far as the award of concessions is concerned, the question was not answered yesterday. On the basis of Article 64 of the Health and Insurance Act and also of the basis of the general agreement adopted, the Health Insurance Office has published a call for programmes. This is now the case for these last health service concessions, for contracts in 2006, to which health care providers must apply within the time limit foreseen for that night Monday. So, operators of those health activities that are included in the public health service network. This is called public institutions and private contractors with concessions. Among the applicants for concessions were specialists from public institutions and specialists who have so far not been included in the public health service network. The following criteria were taken into account in the examination of the applications for both groups. I'll answer anyway, even if you don't listen. Let me do it again. We are in the process of examining applications for concessions. For both groups, the following criteria were taken into account: provision of second-level specialist doctors, video of a network of doctors at secondary level for 2003, with annual supplements for both groups. Second criterion: waiting periods for specialist outpatient treatment. We received data from the Ministry of Health's E-Investment, where operators provided data on the recorded needs of the population and the free capacity of operators to implement one-off additional programmes during the September-December 2006 period. And for specialists from public institutions, there are additional criteria: this is the opinion of the management of the Public Institute for the consent of the specialist and the opinion of the management of the public administration for the possible transfer and the level of the programme from the public institution. Therefore, the criteria were very clear and the criteria were taken 100% into account when granting concessions. That's why I don't think there can be any big problems here. If there are any other questions about this, I am ready to answer that in the future. The next question raised yesterday was some of the findings concerning hospitals in Gorica, Sežana and Izola. Here I would briefly say that as far as the whole problem in Primorska is concerned. Under the healthcare system, treatment of all emergency and non-removal health services is ensured, but it should be said that there are limitations within the framework of public funding. Therefore, the resources provided for health care are planned according to the identified problem and the priorities set. The hospital Nova Gorica operated positively every year until 2005, with an excess of income over expenditure. The Ministry of Health considers that operating conditions were fully acceptable during that period from the point of view of the hospital. The hospital’s management signed a health service contract every year without any comment. By contract in 2006, the hospital’s management raised several questions at the conclusion of the contract, which were then resolved in the context of the arbitration procedure between the operator, the Health Insurance Office and the Ministry of Health. In the arbitration procedure, the Ministry of Health supported the contractor's proposal to plan the appropriate scope of the acute hospital treatment programme and the proposal to increase the accessibility of residents of the region to artificial resonance investigations and increased the number of investigations by 200. Following the completion of the arbitration procedure, the hospital’s management expressed its gratitude to the Ministry of Health for the support and consent given. From the point of view of the issues raised for 2006 by the hospital management and the agreed solutions under arbitration, we estimate that there are no more open questions at the hospital for 2006. As far as the hospital is concerned, Sežana operated a hospital in 2004 with a loss of $95.5 million, i.e. 13.7% of the total income. In 2005, the Ministry of Health, with a major increase in the programme and the correction of the hospital care price for the extended hospital treatment programme, enabled an increase in the hospital budget from 347 million in 2004 to 510 million dollars, which means an increase of 47%. Sežana Hospital thus operated without loss in 2005. Sanitation would certainly not succeed with the successful internalisation of costs and the introduction of new programmes that provided additional funds to the hospital and, above all, better accessibility for dialysis patients. In 2006, at the conclusion of the contract with the institution, the hospital re-emphasized the issue of an appropriate evaluation of the programme and after discussion in the arbitration procedure, the hospital management decided to fully adopt the original proposed contract by the institution and to resubmit any proposed amendments after the completion of the proposal to the health partners. From this point of view, we cannot talk about some of the essential or major unresolved problems of the Sežana hospital. Isola Hospital. In conclusion, on 6.6. this year, I appointed a Commission to identify the causes of the losses at Izola Hospital and to prepare a proposal for a programme to address the causes of the losses and stabilise operations. The Commission's task is also to monitor the stabilisation programme, which, as a proposal, has been developed by the hospital's management and draws attention to the delays in the implementation of the rehabilitation. The working group has drawn up a report on how the rehabilitation will be carried out. In today's concluded arbitration procedure initiated by the General Hospital Izola in connection with the 2006 contract year, or this conclusion had already been carried out earlier, initiated by the General Hospital Izola in connection with the 2006 contract, the Ministry of Health supported the proposal of the General Hospital Izola and the restructuring of programmes and additional programmes at the level of specialist outpatient programmes. The rehabilitation of Izola Hospital itself will be arranged with the hospital's management. I still owe an answer to the information on how things are going at the Clinical Center, which Dr. Leskovšek went to the privates and to apply for that surgery or surgery, if I understand correctly. I'll tell you the answer, you'll know how distorted information comes from here. All ordered patients who were assigned to Dr. Leskovšk, who received a concession for plastic surgery, received a telegram informing them that they would receive new dates in a short time. But the hospital in question didn't pick up a telegram, but she checked into the clinic herself. She was told she could get a date, but she said she was having trouble because of the pain. That was the reason she was sent directly to the clinic, where she didn't come. This is the end of this event. So no connection to the award of the concession to Dr. Leskovšku. I think it would be good if those of you who triggered that problem listened. Maybe some more replicas for today's performance. I was now responding to yesterday's findings. As far as Mr. Zammernik's comment is concerned. Of course, the reason people are getting sicker is because the population is getting older. There's no doubt about that. I have to say, I started working on an E.R. out there in 1972, and when I left the E.R. as a doctor, maybe last time I was on duty in 1995, the average age of patients in the E.R. increased by at least 30%. And that's why there are more and more patients. There is another problem in Ljubljana that was not solved in the period after 1991 when the hospital of war was abolished. We are now solving this problem at the Clinical Center by acquiring another additional unit for internistic patients at the current Clinical Center at the new neurological clinic. What's the reason for this, I'm just going to explain that this problem is even bigger. The increased number of patients and the same or even smaller number of internistic beds have led to the problems I am now talking about. This is because at the time a war hospital was abolished, which has received quite a few internalist problems from the civil area as well. These beds were not replaced later. This mistake, this "little thing" is now being solved by extending the internistic department to an internal clinic at the Clinical Center. And it is true, it is not just Slovenia, it is a problem of the whole of Europe, at least of the European Union, where I have participated in meetings with ministers over the past two years and where I have found that all of them have very similar problems mainly because the population is getting older and is getting sicker. And medicine is getting better every moment, and more and more of these patients are getting back into work and everyday life. And these are two main reasons why the number of patients is increasing. And for my own health, I think that this is one of the most important factors, and we are also devoting this to the Ministry in the last two years, and I must say, as well as in the previous mandate of the former Minister, a lot of attention. And that, I think, is also the right direction for the future. The next discussion today was about vaccination, the HPV virus. I must say that I still have the same information as yesterday, that it is possible to vaccinate, that this vaccine can be carried out, but if one of the doctors doesn't want to do it, then he doesn't have to do it because he may not be qualified to do it. But trained doctors can and is very good if, on request or at the request of an insured person, insured persons carry out the vaccination. However, the programme will be prepared under the entire vaccination programme. As far as it's concerned, there's no control. We've talked about this before. I don't know how many times in this day, but not just in this day, but in the last two months. This is essentially the topic I have already discussed and I would like to stress once again that next year we will significantly improve it with additional resources for this area. However, I would also like to see the appropriate cooperation of the health insurance company to carry out inspections in those in the hospital stock. As far as bloodletting is concerned, I must say that there will be no changes in blood supply, given the changes in the legislation. The amendments introduced to the law are intended primarily to ensure safety and quality assurance in this field. The main organiser is still the Red Cross of Slovenia, so that your fear of some decay, some weaknesses of some well-run system, is superfluous. However, changes in transfusion medicine reorganisation are also necessary to ensure adequate quality, as the requirements in this area are increasing, require extremely expensive medical equipment and technical equipment and it is reckless that all patient safety tests prescribed and necessary are carried out in each transfusion section of each hospital. This is also contrary to the European Union guidelines. That is why we have redesigned this system as we have, by this law. As far as medicine is concerned, I already talked to you yesterday. At first glance, a very simple matter is prescribed by the Law on Medicine and healers are no longer doing or doing everything, depending on what you write down in the law. These medical laws have been reviewed on our part in several countries. In comparison, we have adopted laws in Germany, Hungary, the Netherlands, and I think that in Sweden. I must say, things are very different. It's very important here, I'll say, some historical path that led to the provision of medicine or the editing of medicine. Of course, we have a particular specificity. However, I have to say that with the law that is really ready now, we are primarily making a relationship between medicine and medicine, and also some other very important matters, and in particular we are introducing the Medical Chamber, which will be responsible for the work of all physicians. We also prescribe through this Medical Chamber the conditions under which someone can deal with medicine and who does not. As far as my openness and indiscretion for dialogue are concerned, I already spoke yesterday. This openness to dialogue was then linked to members of the Movement for the Conservation of Public Health. I have nothing to do with this. I received an invitation, the first time I expressed this wish recently, I now received an invitation for one round table of this movement to maintain public health. I'll be happy to take part in this. If I had received such an invitation earlier, I would have attended it earlier, and I did not, because the interests of this movement were different. Now I have received this invitation, and I will gladly come and talk to people and say what is true, not what is half - truth or even false. However, that members of the Movement for the Conservation of Public Health may also be members of a party, one such or another, is not a problem. But the problem is, what is their activity and leadership, an organisational function in such a movement. This may be a problem. Of course, we could talk about this later. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! Much has been said about the granting of concessions. Let me touch this problem a little bit. You know, no doctor who goes to concessionaires does, if he doesn't have a small one in him, I'd say domestically, entrepreneurial "wire". If he does not have it in him, believe me, he will not be a good concessionary, but will only be an expert in his field, he will perform his function in public health, and that is all. However, those who opt for concessions first want to apply as a recognised expert and then as a good privateer. That's what he says, if he went to the privates, he has to take care of his accountant, his nurse, his premises. He has the conditions to hire favourable loans, secure his office and start working as an expert. Probably no one's been given a concession just like that, to the blind eye, as they say here. He probably had to be the first established specialist in public health, and then he probably applied for a concession, and on the basis of some criteria, he got the concession or didn't get it. I come from Kranj and I can say that in Kranj we would never have, for my concepts, the most beautiful healthcare home in Slovenia if private capital were not present here. Half were given by the congregation, half the concessionaires. What did these concessioneers do? They've taken over their assets. They hired loans so they could do better. And there's something obvious here, I'd say, just like that. And here we have some of that, I'd say weight and healthy competition between public and private. That doctor who decided to go to the concession, to this entrepreneurship cord, wanted to make a nicer waiting room, better conditions. Also, that director of that health home is kind of trying to pair him up and sort of arrange his better office. And here patients can only get. They're not the ones who lost. I'm sure you don't. If we just look at the case of Dr. Fabjan, the world-renowned plastic surgeon in Kranj. Where did he start? Home, in your house. Because it's got an extra wire, I'd say, an entrepreneurship wire. What's he got today? He has, according to his homework, a hospital. And that's why you're reading "fovsariya" now. I say, here, if the Fawcow didn't burn, we'd have plenty of pollen. And here are those doctors who go to work, work in a public office, are experts and get paid. Now they're "fows" to this doctor because he's doing well. Here's the key to my notions. But they're all experts. There's only one who wants to give that added value to the i. And why wouldn't that be possible? Professor Arnež's case is obvious. Yeah, why, if he's an expert, if he wants to be private, why not let him? He will be even better, for if he expands, he will employ five more of his helpers to be able to work. And here it can only be better, not worse, as you see here. Then it's obvious to the Minister of Waiting. The minister is the only minister who has managed to resolve the Gordy knot of the operating table. Today the tables are already set. They're already being tested. That's what they say, if they do, the waiting lines will also decrease. He's just saying that the waiting lines have already been reduced. He did something that couldn't have been done before. You're reading something here, and I don't know why. The Minister reduced the use of medicines, which is only commendable for patients. How many medications have doctors been writing? What about a box or two more? A little more surveillance here. No one will be less sick and no sooner healthy. Then he's the only minister who's even been willing to talk to the healers. The former minister, the healers say, wasn't ready to take it either. At least he was here to talk to them. Today's the Medication Act before us. The doctors have their own room. The first generation of healers have now arrived. The Chamber of Commerce was tested and we have the first generation of healers. What's wrong with this? People do, and the President of the Appellate State has been talking since rehab, and I don't know what he's talking about. Behind it is a whole range of movements, which is given for this medicine and for healthy nutrition for all. Why don't we let people do that? If people want something, let's give them something. Of course, as the minister says, everything must be done professionally and qualitatively. If that's not gonna happen, but I think that's what this is all about. That's why a chamber is being set up, so we're doing school, and that's it. And, fellows, I think you're wrong today with this interpellation, that you're wrong, that it's unjustifiable, and I want the minister to keep working well, and I won't support it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr. Squeakl? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u18	Very briefly, my fellow Member. Look, it's not about being someone's "fowch." This is about how the services will be bought and whether they will be properly supervised, which is that in the healthcare home, all services for which they are paid will also be provided. That's what this is about. This control is gone when you shut down health homes. And that's the problem here. Forming a monopolistic position as someone will be unable to control someone who, as you say, will be re-employing. And the problem with all health systems is the problem of control. And that private person who doesn't work in a nursing home who doesn't have control will respect another criterion. That's the score below the line.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u20	Mr President, in which Parliament rarely happens to accuse the interpellier of those who speak with emotion, as it says: 'too much with feelings for the rallyers' to compare the trade union meetings at which he participates with the rallies and the like. That's something that doesn't really belong in normal work. Usually, the Chairman or coalition reacts in such cases in other parliaments. With us, it is possible that the Minister may, on such an occasion as interpretation, consider his work as a waste and that those who discuss in this assembly may, on such an occasion, be in agreement with the rallyers. But that's just another thing. We're used to it. After all, you can see how democratic everything is in this coalition. The minister, who wanted to defend himself last week, was given 10 minutes. This minister can defend himself for four hours today. And the last time it was said, it's impossible for the Minister to get more than 10 minutes, because it's according to the Rules of Procedure. In this case, it is obvious that it can take four hours for this minister to say what he has to say because he's coming from the right party. But it doesn't matter either. Minister, I will only deal with that part of the readings that talk about rational use of taxpayers' funds. I will talk about what is actually incomprehensible on your part, by the end of the government, that you have ordered the management of certain tasks in the difference of 400 million or more million. I don't know, a sports company or an AMC or an AMC. That would have to be explained. I don't even know if the contract is already signed or not. We read in the papers that the contract hasn't even been signed yet. And even if it is signed, the big question is whether this AMC has concluded this treaty with the State. That's for sure. Is it even possible that you signed the contract or not? It's hard to figure out whether you really did it or not. And this contractor made a contract with the subcontractor. Which means nothing but someone else's making money. Did you not wish to extend your contracts with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior? In the spring, the Ministry of Defence proposed a price correction and was prepared to take part in transport. It's in the papers. This writes in the end of the warnings given to you by this director of the health insurance company, where it says in black on white that it will be emphasized that the Ministry is willing to continue doing so. But you still decided to, I don't know, share company or society. Because at the AMC, this is very clearly separate and it is also known what society is and what equity society is. Of course, I would like to extend this question to the extent to which you are working, I will say, in the interests of this country. For if, on the one hand, the army is forced to make so many and so many helicopter flights each month, and now it has been useful to say so, and we have often boasted and boasted about how our rescue teams are within the army, within civil protection, the entire segment. Now that we could practically benefit the country, citizens, etc. And make that money - cca. 400 million is estimated - that more money will be spent because even German subcontractors will do so with some old helicopter that is obviously not - the question is whether it is appropriate or not - because it is said to be in bad weather and cannot fly at night at all. And our helicopters are standing there, and the soldiers, the military pilots, they're going to work dry. It's gonna cost again. I ask very simply: how much is the difference between what we would pay if these services were provided by the military and the police, and how much will it cost when doing it in the future under a contract that I do not know is signed or not, a German company as a subcontractor of the AMC that is not qualified to do so? Do not say that the government regulation has allowed the AMC to do so. This is a clienteleistic contract where a person is given a name in a state regulation that can also manage the AMC as a shareholder. This is customerism or whatever you want to say, because if you've already gone beyond the military and the police doing it, then at least what it is, you would expect to have a call and invite all those bidders who can participate. But no, you went to write in a regulation in 2005, so that besides the military and the police can do the same and only the AMC. I don't understand it otherwise. That's 400 million more expensive, according to allegations. The middleman takes his own, the contractor has to make money. Of course, helicopters aren't in use here. Please, if you continue because you have a lot of time from those four hours, explain in detail how you imagined it and whose harm it will all be.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Školč applied on behalf of the applicants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, yesterday in answer to a question related to your decision just issued regarding the duty of the Pharmacy Chamber said that you did something good for the insured and nothing illegal. Next, you said that you would comment on the comment on these illegalities. Mr Minister, this is, I will say, a very powerful claim for the questions raised, and a very powerful claim for the statements made in the legal opinion drawn up by Minister Sturm. However, you say that they have a basis for collecting this information in the insurance undertaking already when the insurers enter into contracts. Mr. Secretary, of course that's not true. You know this very well and here you try to mislead parliament and the Slovenian public. No data can be collected only on the basis of a contract, but also on the basis of written consent. Look, contracts are made between insurance and insurance companies, not pharmacies. And even if the insurers conclude or are willing to give some information, they have to provide it to the insurance company themselves, but it is not possible to transfer it to the pharmacy. That's part of the problem. They don't make contracts with pharmacies, they make contracts with insurance companies. The second thing to say is that the Mutual needs some information. You're the ones who got their hands on it. However, the same information is not required under the available contracts for its activity and for the control of this activity by the Insurance Company Triglav. You may have wondered why. What's true, Mr. Secretary, is to read here, if you don't believe Minister Sturm, is what the Constitution says. The Constitution states that personal data protection is provided. It then states that the collection, processing, purpose of use, control and protection of the confidentiality of personal data is governed by law. This means that no contract which does not have a basis in the law cannot allow data to be collected. Mr. Secretary, you know that and you're still trying to fool around here. It also states in Article 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act that they may be processed only if the processing of personal data and personal data processed are governed by law or if the personal consent of an individual is given for the processing of certain personal data. It has always provided that the basis should be the law. You broke it in your decision. This is extremely illegal and is not only contrary to the laws, but also contrary to the Constitution. And this isn't about any blind bullets, it's about some very fundamental rights, where you're out with your hand, if you don't care about insurance. However, Minister Sturm writes that if such a law were to be passed, there should be in fact a special regime for the protection of such data. This certainly can't be your decision again. I'm not going to deal with this special regime here, but it assumes at least three guards. However, what your colleague needs to read from this opinion regarding the protection of personal data is this: if you would allow insurance companies to collect such information as you have decided, unfortunately and unlawfully, then I would quote: "for sensitive personal data within the meaning of Article 19(6) concerning Article 1 and Article 2(6) of the Personal Data Protection Act. Sensitive personal data are actually specifically protected under the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and in accordance with Directive 95/46 of the European Community." It goes on to say: "sensitive personal data, including health data, are specifically protected in terms of the provisions of the law and the provisions of the Directive and, given their sensitive nature in the name of the insured medicinal product, it is necessary to take into account that this may also result in indirect interference with classical medical confidentiality, confidentiality and therefore the issue should be dealt with in a fairly careful and balanced manner with the law. Minister, all these provisions were trampled by your decision, and yesterday you made fun of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We continue with the list of applicants. And I give my word to Mr. Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! As some of you have already found in yesterday's debate that the applicants in their statements often use a lot of demagogic claims. Demagogy is also an integral part of the opposition MEPs' performance, and this time I am not surprised. I think that this is actually a major distortion of the public, and I also agree with those who have said that you often abuse patients for political purposes. The Minister responded very eloquently and in concrete terms to the findings of the interpretation and rejected all the claims made. For this reason, it seems to me that the interpretation, as written, has been submitted with a considerable amount of delay. If this interpolation in this form and content were filed a few years ago, one would still understand and agree with a lot of what is written. But today, I think it's a pretty late case. In fact, if we look at the state of health at the time the Minister took over this ministry and today, then we see a significant difference from then to now. The situation has changed significantly and has improved significantly. So that most of what was written could be stopped and held back a few years ago. Today practically doesn't hold it anymore. It is amazing that you do not use all the interpellations against Minister Bručan as an argument for interpolation. Most recent words have been said about wild privatisation in the award of concessions for private health activities. What is a concession, what is the content of the concession, has been explained several times. Both by the Minister and some Members. So that I would not lose words again and define this concept. In any event, it is based on a health concession as well as on the provision of public service, as is the case with the public service in the context of health homes or in hospitals, only in other forms. And it is important that this activity is carried out in good quality and for the benefit of the patients. In both cases, control is needed to do so, both in one case and in the other. And I don't see any reason why this surveillance is not done to be used in both cases in the same way. You report to the Minister that he is awarding concessions without an invitation to tender and on this basis the Minister should grant concessions only by his own and subjective assessment, which should mean that the concession should be awarded only to the Minister under the authority of the doctors. More than once, when we discussed a topic in the National Assembly, some opposition Members drew very vehemently all black and the government attributed some of the things they were supposed to do if their proposals in the National Assembly were to be adopted. Nothing helped to explain that the government has no bad intentions and that it wants to improve things at systemic level, which will then be better for everyone. There's been a series of speculations that the government is going to usurp something and damage others. We are also witnessing this today and yesterday when we consider the interpretation of Minister Bručan. I don't know why you're always so negative about this, and to the government, you're assigning evil purposes to its ministers. Or are you judging yourself? Have you who have been in power for many years done so, and do you think that is what others do? And now give us the same evil intentions that you've been doing yourself for years. I don't know. That's not what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. I can't agree to that kind of logic on my own. You can't think of a man as a villain in advance if he's going to abuse the situation and not work for the welfare of people, but for the interests of himself or his fellowman. If this is what his predecessor may have done, you cannot now attribute to the current minister that he will do the same. As far as the award of concessions mentioned above is concerned, it is necessary to distinguish between the award of concessions in primary health care and the award of concessions in secondary health care. There was much to be said about this, as in primary health care, concessions are awarded to municipalities. The Minister only gives his consent. And we have also heard that some mayors, who are also sitting in this National Assembly, have been quite active in this distribution. As far as this is concerned, nothing can be seen from the Minister. If anything is wrong with the granting of concessions in primary health care, then contact the municipalities and not the minister, who at the end of this procedure merely formalises the award made by the municipality. As far as secondary health is concerned, the procedure is actually run by the Ministry in exactly the same way as it has been for years and years, based on a law not drafted by the current Government and not adopted by the current coalition. But the law was passed at a time when you had scissors and linen, which today you are proposing to replace the minister and who advocates the content of the interpretation you have prepared. And if anything was wrong with this procedure, it's your fault and not the current government or current minister. For you have prepared the law, and your coalition has also adopted this law. The Minister must respect the law in force. But the law in force was, as it were, accepted by you during your reign. Thus, the procedure for granting medical concessions is governed by a valid law, which has been in force for quite some time. The procedure is exactly the same as that of the previous Minister at the time of your Government. Nothing in this process has changed. And this concession award process is also in line with the European Directive in this area. Therefore, it does not violate any Slovenian legal norm and does not violate any European legal norm. These rules, both Slovenian and European, do not require an invitation to tender in the award of concessions. And if the procedures for awarding concessions were in accordance with the applicable legislation, how can such a procedure be regarded as controversial and even illegal and as an argument for interpretation against the Minister? That's strange. You do not offer any evidence that would indicate a violation or abuse of the rules in granting concessions. But you're justifying the Minister's guilt by the very fact that the concessions were awarded. Of course they did, because there was a law under which concessions were expected to be awarded. Therefore, on the basis of this legal basis, concessions were awarded both at the time of the current Government's mandate and at the time of the previous Government's mandate. And finally, that is also the purpose of the law. I just don't understand this kind of argument for replacing the minister. Just the opposite. So if I hadn't done it, I could have been an argument for an interpolation. Not if they're law enforcement. So if the Minister were to obstruct the award of concessions, then that could be the reason for the minister to be exposed to something that is not right. Not if he was using and implementing the law. Therefore, only if it had prevented the award of concessions as provided for by law from acting would it have violated its ministerial obligations and could have justified the reason for the interpretation. That's how he made it possible. It only allowed the implementation of legal provisions in this area. And since he allowed it, you want to interpret it. Wrong world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Kumar has the next word. I'm sorry. On behalf of the motioners. Please, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. All I want to answer is to respect the law. Of course, if we knew the laws, Mr Kovacich, we would know it wasn't. I explained it exactly yesterday. The Health Act makes clear in Article 9 the role of the healthcare home. We claim that by mass awarding concessions this role is changing. Secondly, Article 4 of the same Act states that the criteria for the establishment of a public health service network shall be laid down in a health care plan. That's not the plan. The government didn't prepare this. How can you still claim that everything is in line with the law, while you are disputing and referring to laws, while this law has been in force for a number of years, and deny that the entry of Slovenia into the European Union could also give rise to another element that this Government does not take into account? And if I quote only a collective agreement where you wrote that you would re-examine and supplement the conditions for how you would grant concessions, you would not do so. So, Mr Kovacič, if we knew exactly what the laws were, we could see for ourselves that the legal provisions are not being complied with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich has a replica. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I object to this performance by saying that it is no more massive award of concessions than it was during the previous term. That was said. Mr Minister has explained to you exactly how concessions were granted in this mandate and in the previous one. There is no more mass award of concessions. Therefore, the allocation process could not have been carried out differently than it had been carried out in the previous mandate. So I don't accept this statement, because it's not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u29	Thank you. Mag. Squeakle, on behalf of the proponents. But there's no replica to the replica, Mr. Germich. Mag. Squeakle, on behalf of the proponents.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u30	Mr Member, you are a Member from Ljubljana and the question is very simple. You therefore suggest that in Ljubljana we grant concessions to everyone in health care and abolish healthcare homes. Because that's what's gonna happen. If the Minister continues at the same pace as the number of doctors, all the doctors will be concessionaires. And the next step is very famous. It is also called the Public-Private Partnership Act and the abolition of health homes as physical locations. And the Ljubljana girls and the Ljubljanaians are going somewhere to see a doctor? In private offices without supervision. Is this what you want as an MP from Ljubljana? Do you want to eliminate the possibility that was established in the 1950s that provided high-quality health care? When people come to Ljubljana, when people come to Slovenia and when international institutions describe the situation in Slovenia, the existence of health homes is assessed as one of the basic levers for the high health status of the population. And that's what you want to stop. Ask Ljubljanans and Ljubljanaians whether they want to abolish health homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament has made it clear to me that I want to end something, that I want to abolish health homes. I can tell him that awarding concessions, you talk about primary health care, because health homes belong to the circle of primary health care. And we might know that the granting of concessions in this area is not carried out by the Ministry but is carried out by the municipality. And if you're referring to this question and this observation to me, I'd be redirecting it elsewhere. I would redirect it to the Ljubljana mayor and let him answer your question, because this area is not governed by the Minister, but by the municipality of Ljubljana, where the mayor of Zoran Jankovic was recently elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, on behalf of the motioners? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr. Kovacic, first you say that everything is in line with the law. When I tell you that's not true, you say, "Yeah, crowd is a second argument." This means that this minister does nothing more intensely than he did before. Neither does that argument. For in the four years of the previous term 158 concessions were granted, in the two years of this mandate 274. And I'm just counting on you to know the difference. And today, talk about the Minister not being responsible. Yes, how he is not responsible, but if we just quoted an article earlier, where, on the basis of the health plan proposed by the Government, the Government prepares it, not the congregation. The government prepares it, submits it to the National Assembly. The National Assembly confirms it. The network and the criteria for the network are determined and then the minister creates the policy. And now you're saying that the Minister has nothing to do with this health policy at the primary level. This is the wrong world and also in line with the Minister's reasoning in his reply, which says, "we will grant concessions. But if something goes wrong, it is the responsibility of the congregations that have their representatives in the saints. Of course, it is possible for them to order and act." Of course, this is a matter of total misdirection and of defending an essential other interest, which we are trying to present to the Slovenian public in interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u35	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u36	Only one short intermezzo of this implementation. In fact, what's interesting is your conclusion. As Minister, I am also fully aware of the responsibilities of healthcare homes. Only this responsibility must be the same in the event of some good action as in the case of bad. And the congregation as well. And in the case you are now quoting, the responsibility of the congregation is also present. You won't deny it. In any case, the primary responsibility is the congregation. And mine is to coordinate things where they don't seem normal. That's the only problem. But in any case, you can't blame every bad thing that happens if the founder of the congregation is a minister. But here responsibility can also be mutual. Above all, it is in the congregation, which is the founder. That's perfectly clear. I think there is no problem here, but I am also here for the award of concessions at the primary level at the final stage, I am aware of this, also responsible, because I am signing a decision at the final stage, which has already been made in three places, in the municipality, in the insurance office and in the chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Are you going to decide who's going to talk? Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. This debate has, of course, taken place yesterday, but unfortunately many have not been here to hear the arguments and we will repeat them again. It's not a problem in the congregations. But the problem is that at the beginning of his term, the minister himself admitted that clear rules of the game should be laid down. Sam found that a concession law was needed. This marriage is not ready. This law would lay down the rules of the game under what conditions concessions are granted, how to ensure on-call service, how to ensure that the conditions of the concessionaires are met. And, of course, in this sense, the minister did not withdraw the consent that he gave to the congregations at the final stage, not to any congregation. Even if he knew that contracts were harmful to the public interest. Here's his responsibility. There is no law, even though it was seen somewhere in some cultures in August. But he wants the law not to exist, so that it can happen in a wild way and that I can, I will say, exercise my interests. But it gives clear messages and there's pressure that this is happening. The municipalities directly encourage and directly encourages doctors to take such a course of action in basic health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u39	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u40	Yes, about this direct promotion, but of course I have to intervene. That's not true! I haven't directly encouraged anyone yet, and you have to give it, or either, and you have to issue the concession. Betray, I said, concessions where you can't otherwise solve a certain problem regarding the employment of doctors. That is to say, solve the problem of hiring a concessionaire if you can't work with a public official. That's all. Otherwise, there will be no such compulsions and there will be none.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. This reminds me of a pink punk, but it's okay. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u42	Look, it's not a pink punk. This is a fundamental question. Mr Minister is also Chairman of the City Council of the SDS in Ljubljana. And I very much imagine that if Mr Arhar had won the last mayoral elections, he would have, like in the Slovenian Bistrica and elsewhere, perhaps even in the cooperation of some lenders, Mr Minister would have liked to sign concessions for all doctors in Ljubljana's health homes. Since he was yesterday, Minister, you attacked people from the Public Health Movement yesterday who say exactly that about Ljubljana. Let's not break up health homes, let's not do what you do. And sadly, they have done too much in some congregations. And you, Mr. Secretary, have two hats. One hat, the SDS city council president's hat. I'm pretty sure where that would lead. It would also take public health homes in Ljubljana to decommission. Thank God Mr. Arhar didn't win.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u44	You have some hypothetical assumptions that have already passed, of course, and that have not come true. How about if it was, what would happen if it was, and so on? It's just that he can be a philosopher in his own way. Such a philosophical approach is interesting, but it has no real basis. How would it be if Mr. Arhar won? Of course, we don't know, not you, not me. But it is true that nothing is excluded from the current mayor's victory. Nothing's been ruled out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u45	Thank you. Master Squeakle, replica or on behalf of the proponents? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u46	Minister, I didn't see any public health care in the SDS City Board program.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Believe it or not, Mr. Kumer, whoever's waiting, this is waiting. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with co-workers! First of all, the fellow Vice President is not here. I would answer him because he said that if all people were healthy, all citizens are healthy, then what would they look like within this health system. If a person is healthy, he lacks nothing and needs nothing, including money. We wouldn't be discussing it today either. That's a very short answer to that. In spite of the fact that, during these more than 10 hours of interpretation, the Minister has said that it is mostly or all fictional, but it is not true, I will nevertheless allow myself to express some views and eventually three evidences where I will try to substantiate with short evidence that there are, of course, some dilemmas within the healthcare system and obvious differences from the previous period. But I will start where the interpreter himself started, so when he wrote it down, I quote: "The interpolation writers are obviously still under the weight of the 60-year ban on private work in health deliberately deceiving the granting of concessions is privatisation." This valuable assessment of those who hope to say something about concessions in health, written by the Minister, primarily speaks and defines him and the way in which the ministry works and works, which is indeed sometimes or often similar to the 1970s. On the other hand, it's also a floscule. This is also the expression of a minister spoken yesterday, repeated by all ministers in a row and apparently embedded in a chip that the current members of the Government received at the time of performing more than two years ago, which is the most appropriate excuse for poor or unsettled work or even intentional damage. That is why I can say, without any regret, that the Ministry or the Ministry of Concession in Health is abusing to satisfy client-clientistic interests that can also be added value in corruption and corruption. Therefore, it would be much better for the Minister to look at what he has written in the coalition contract, what he has promised in this area, in the field of concessions, rather than giving ideological valuations. Let me refresh his memory, quote: "We will redefine the conditions under which private work concessions can be issued in the future so that they do not lead to a deterioration in the efficiency of health activities in a given environment." I'll quote the minister twice more. In response to my fellow Member Majdi, he replied in May this year: "Although the Government's 2006 normative programme plans to amend the Health Act by fully regulating the award of healthcare concessions and the alignment with the European Union's legal order, due to the current nature of the problem we are preparing a special law which will allow for the regulation of this issue even before the adoption of the Health Activities Act." Of course, we do not yet have this proposal for a law, and the proposal for a law on health care does. On the other hand, when colleagues Kontić and Majda asked a question of responsibility, which was previously discussed, the Minister wrote: "In providing the public health service network they take over the municipalities and the ministry of care, etc. "It is said that he himself wrote that, together with the municipalities, he is responsible for the entire network of public health systems. So let me get this straight. There's a talk in the interview about what the ministry or the government should and could do, and they didn't. So, it's about ethics, it's about implementation and implementation of the Code of Ethics, both by the minister and by the government, in which they were able to say a lot two years ago. Or in other words. It's about the minister's unethical behavior when he promises something that he knows in advance he won't. Why the minister acted unethical in this case is a real question. What interests prevailed against the promise he made at the time of this government’s appearance? Here I would serve, or we would take from our memory, or we would help ourselves with the position of today's President, Dr. Tsukati, who said three years ago in a similar situation, "Well, there's a talk in interpretation about what the government promised, what it was obliged to do and could not do." Instead of explaining and similar situation, the government today, when we listen to the minister, why it has not done so, speaks long and wide about what it has done for this country. It's like they hit someone on the walkway, then run off, and the judge would ask you, "Why did you do that?" You'd say, "Look, I'm good for neighbors in the winter. No, sir, why did you run away and why did you run over a pedestrian?" "Look what I do for this nation, what I do for it or for it." These are the words of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjat, when he was still an opposition member at one of the interpretations. He was even sharper, and again I quote: "The citizens are still not protected. However, protected corruption, clientism and the place of state, tax assets remain very carefully. The government has a bitter rush to set up its personnel, including in health care, where Minister Keber is party-cleaning the management of Slovenian hospitals in principle, first the discreditation, then the liquidation." What a random similarity or replay today of these past events. You too, Minister Bručan, have in the past two years thoroughly ventilated, not only hospital management, but also membership in all the sacred institutions within health care, of course, in order to create the necessary amount, the mass to nod the policy that you are implementing and whose subject of criticism you are today in this National Assembly. That is why we who support this interpretation do not care what is well done, but what the ministry and the ministry should do did not do. That's the question of interpolation. Question: What did you do as a minister of good for your client's neighbour, for carefully chosen concessionaires, lobbyists, but why did you run over a small citizen, a beneficiary of health care services, and leave him unprotected in the health insurance market and leave him to the mercy or ingratitude of a health network based on customer clienteleism and corruption? This is the question that we are asking you to answer today. This is a key issue for the further development of health policy in the country. And since there's been a lot of talk in these more than 10 hours, maybe the three little pieces of evidence I've chosen will complement some things. There was a lot of talk about the grant of Dr. Bitenc's concession. I'll point out the damage to the state's property. Directly in the part where Mr Bitenc - I will not go into the proceedings - but where Medico got the rental contract at Izola Hospital and this entrepreneur Medico could rent the sublet. Here I think it is a violation of certain rules of the game within the Government, but if the contract is so written and so valid, then it is to the detriment of state property. Perhaps with this damage to the property of the state, I would remind you of the decree on the sale of state property. It was said a month ago also in this National Assembly, in Ptuj, a 600 - square - foot - long - size portrait of the land in the middle of Ptuj was sold for 600,000 tolars. The sale is listed in the section under the Ministry of Health. This is also a matter of damage to social property. And not least, alone or anyone else mentioned the first medical assistant in this concession for Dr. Bitenec. I think there's another issue here that I think is more worrisome and the Ministry or the Ministry should react. In fact, in this ad, which was also in the public media from this First Health Assistance, I am particularly concerned about this rapid access to specialist doctors. But inside this First Health Assistance is a thunderbolt, which is this d.o.o. Founded, but it's these doctors who are specialists. So that it can happen that some will have the opportunity to work in three areas: in the public network as concessionaries, in the public network and as private individuals, because this First Health Assistant, d.o.o., is definitely a private, legal person. As a second piece of evidence, or as a small piece of evidence, which has been handed out many times around the helicopter. I looked again because I was more interested in finance - the state or the government gets from rent for falcon 282 million tolars per year, for falcon, which is special, which was sometimes even said that the wounded could drive and so on. You're working with this helicopter for $400 million. I'm only talking about economy. We are talking about economic management of public finances. When the government rents things, it cashes half as much as when it rents things. It's very simple for laymen who don't get to know these things. It's about numbers. And now a concrete example of the award of concessions. This is a number of mentioned New City and I would like to go in a series of ways on how it can be abused and in the end I will conclude that the award of concessions or concession activity at this moment is essentially a transitional period or a transitional option for the transition to private health care. For a simple reason, the competition is also granted by the Law on Public-Private Partnership, where both real estate and fixed assets in these health homes can be privately owned next year. But let's get to the bottom of this. The Municipality of Novo mesto has adopted specific criteria for the award of concessions. I will focus on one thing and it has been written in one of the sections: 'The candidate shall sign a declaration before the award of the concession to accept and fulfil all contractual obligations arising from the contract in the concession. In particular, it undertakes to take over personnel from a public institution belonging to it in the light of the team and the continued cooperation with public institutions." Then an agreed contract was drawn up in Article 11 which reads: "At the time of the transition to privacy, the concessionaire must offer employment with a concession for an indefinite period of time to the staff with whom he worked in the Novo Mesto health centre, in the number and extent granted by the contract to him by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia or by the concessionaire and the Novi Mesto Institute of Health, conclude a contract to provide services to these workers in order to prevent the occurrence of surplus staff in the public institution. And now the actual contract that the concessionaires have received for signature is different in spite of the criteria, in spite of the decisions adopted by the municipality, despite the agreed agreement between the three partners on the content of the contract. The actual contract reads as follows for signature: "The concessioner must offer only to an assistant, ect, in the transition to privacy with a concession. Come on, no one else." Now I'm asking you, is this about abuse, about customerism, about corruption in the end? [[...]] Speak your own judgment on this matter. But I'm still telling you about naivety or, I'll say, pear attention to two more things that confirm to me that this is not the way the minister can function primarily for health care. It's a donation to the operating tables where you made a big marketing and pear story. Now, were you naive or did you do it on purpose? Last but not least, this is the last case from the month and half for 100 free surgeries at the heart of one of Slovenia's great specialists. Here, too, I think you've played, as I say, an unseemly role of the Minister of Health. That's why I'm going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is ma'am. Excuse me, Minister before, then Mrs. Polonca Dobrajc. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u50	I will briefly answer these final questions. Regarding 100 free concessions, Mr Klokočovnik's operations I must say that the article published in the newspaper was not a real reflection of my conversation with Klokočovnik. That's when we gave the demanta. It was about offering Klokočovnik, whether or not the mayor, the possibility of carrying out operations where his work would be free of charge for these 100 operations and where this part of the deal or this part of the payment would then be used for the debt, to solve the debt of the hospital. I didn't see anything wrong with that. At the same time, however, I also said that there is still a need to agree on this point that this is not an agreement, that it was only an option such as this, because it has no competence or competence to discuss it. But there was still a lot of work to be done in this regard, especially for someone else's surgery. But such an arrangement was possible and because it was possible and because the technique of his operations was cheaper than some other techniques, it was a good step to solve the hospital and there was no other reason for it. As far as the donation is concerned with that company's tables, I'd say, in any case, no one the first time they get such an offer can say that, and I'm not taking it, because they'd attack him again on the other side, why he didn't take it. I knew exactly in two hours, but I never said I'd take it, but I'd study it. When I saw what this was all about, I immediately made a public decision not to make such a donation. There were no problems here, and I wasn't naive, on the contrary. I reacted quite quickly and correctly. However, as regards the award of that concession concerning the New City, it is, of course, the award of the concession which was re-issued and signed by the municipality. The concessions themselves, as such, are unlikely to be dealt with here right now, because I do not know exactly. In this part, which you are talking about, if I understand correctly, of course it is possible, it should also be reviewed again, but in any way I am not responsible for signing this concession.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u51	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs. Polonci Dobrajc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u52	Dear President! Fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Minister! In my explanation of why I will not support the interpolation, I will not dispute with the seven indications underlying this interpolation. However, I must say that I will vote against interpolation, because I think the health situation is satisfactory and the ministry's leadership is satisfactory. Compared to previous years and the previous state of public health, I feel good, given my expectations and the expectations of patients and patients, as stated by the proponent, and for this purpose the interpretation has been made and is satisfactory. Each builds his own opinion on the comparisons and experiences he has and on expectations. If I want to justify my opinion, we need to get back into the public health system a year ago. Unfortunately, I don't know when you, colleagues and colleagues met with the health system. I'm afraid I met myself years ago. Twenty-eight, twenty-six years ago. 28 years ago, I met with the Oncology Institute as a child when my mother was dying. With the health system, it was probably satisfactory at the time, well, my father was involved. I only remember the decaying rooms and the buildings where the patients died, including my mother. And 26 years ago. And why I say, at the expense of this and on the account of the patients, that the current system of health care is good according to what happened. At the end of February, I came back from college and got my father half-conscious. [[Yes, Mrs. Beblereva, confession yourself.]] . President, may I please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u53	I was just about to do it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u54	Because I also told you why you're confessing yourself. Half unconscious, why? You're discussing transport today. There was no way to get the transport back then. There was no way to get an ambulance. That's what the neighbor did, doctor. Then the calvary continued. The doctor, unfortunately, I've been seeing him for years and years, because he sailed into politics and made a pretty good political career, 15 minutes before he examined his father, who was locally and temporarily unoriented by medical terminology, so they said I didn't use a different term, he was talking on the phone about toilet poetry, kamasutri, and about whether someone took him to bed as a neighbor. Well, after the examination, Dad was sent home, and the doctor said, "Give him aspirin, why am I explaining this?" It was a tough night when the system went off in the morning, because the father was in the previous system, like a senior official, he was a pensioner, but the senior judge in his retirement, the military war invalid, and when they found out what happened at work, the system went off and waited for the bed. I didn't say that myself last night. We were like regular patients, health care users, unfortunately he recognized and his father died. This is the first time I've spoken publicly about this case. 26 years ago, this case did not come to the public, nor to the media, nor did it require any consistency or control. That's what the system was like. The same doctor who did this sent a question to me in 1997 when he started building his political career somehow through his family colleagues, asking me why I didn't like him. It's not a question of caring or not liking, it's a question of whether I did the right thing at the time. I guess so. I'll never get an answer. The answer was sent through his family colleagues, but it is better that in politics, given the experience I have with him, I will not interfere with his political career. And he had a chance to improve his health. How's he doing? According to my assessment, he improved it, because according to what happened, the system was improved. According to what's expected and what's expected, he's satisfied. And the minister you're interpolating today is improving the system. In the context of this, I particularly welcome the Law on Patient Rights and the Law on Public-Private Partnership and also the award of concessions. Why? Because the healthcare system is opening up. We can talk about controls, but all controls are more or less carried out within the system and the system will be opened with privacy. And the doctors will be out of the system as well. And the surveillance system isn't just a medical room system, it's not just a ministry system. Surveillance is also the media, and surveillance is, not least, in the third branch of government, where they offer you a restorative settlement in the framework of damages, but it will not be today, but it will be in 15, 20 years. And that is why, Mrs Bebler, I had to give my case because I consider the situation to be satisfactory, good in terms of forward and satisfactory in terms of what I expect it to be. However, the Minister himself responded correctly to all the indications in the interpretation and I will therefore also vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioners, Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I can tell my colleague Dobrajchev that the story she presented is very tragic and I feel for her. But what I'm trying to say is, tonight I got two letters saying exactly the same tragic story that happened in 2005. Here is a letter from Ms Vanda of Izola, who died last year by her father, stating on three sides that she was guilty of death in the absence of specialists and inappropriate behaviour at the Clinical Centre. The specialist was in foreign training, his father was brought in on Friday and the story ended tragically by Tuesday. The second story - she described even longer, more writing is the story of Mr Stanet from Kranj, says she is even a veteran of the war for Slovenia and has also initiated a procedure and informed the minister of what happened when the ER did not react to his wife in time and the story ended tragically. In short, I want to say that in such cases, which happen tragically every day, yours was more than 10, 20 years ago, it's no different today. And these mistakes and these problems happen all the time. If you want to read these stories, maybe people sent them to you, they were reactions to yesterday. With such stories, you cannot say that they all ended when Mr Bručan came to the ministerial office, but before that everything was wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dobrojcheva has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u58	Once again, I would like to highlight what I wanted to stress in the story. My story is 26 years old, and it's mine, and it's first publicized, and there was no chance, not in the National Assembly, not in the media, not in court. Mrs Orzmova tells a story that is one year old. But as for the tragedy, Mrs Orzmova, I bear my tragedy alone, I do not need another, and it is probably the tragedy itself that must go through the tragedy. However, it is extremely unsavoury to use foreign tragedies for political purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. And we continue with the list reported. Okay, on behalf of the proposer, because there's no replica on the replica. That's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I hope I didn't do what you accused me of, but I can tell you the conclusions about these letters. Mrs Orzmova, we ask you and allow you to present our story publicly in terms of what we have been able to hear. On behalf of patients who wander in search of a doctor who is not, please present the radiation for which the proposal is expected and the reviews tomorrow in the National Assembly. I hope I presented it correctly enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. However, we now continue to do so with the list of applicants and have the word Mr Ljubeljšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Honourable Assembly, Honourable Minister. It's hard to say something that hasn't been heard before yesterday and today, but I'm saying it, and I'm saying that interpellation against mag. Bručana, Minister of Health, is not justified and is inappropriate, as she is not supported by any evidence, analysis or specific documents, nor proves that there is a suspicion of a violation of the legislation or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not a health expert myself, but I can read and compare data. I am simply a pragmatist who believes more or less in analysis, documents and concrete evidence. If there are none, I seriously doubt the reality of some very general statements, especially if these are unconvincing, easy, superficial. At the same time, I find, on the basis of the data and from the Minister's reply to the interpretation and also from the debate in the National Assembly, that the allegations are false, biased and misleading. Today and yesterday, it turns out that all of us, like all of us, know about football, we also know about health care, although, in truth, we can talk about certain health problems in a reasoned and self-practice way only three of our fellow Members, who are doctors. As I said before, I'm not an expert in health care, but I'm just a beneficiary of health care, and I have to say that I'm happy with these. I can only shape my position on the basis of data, analyses, trends, improvements, but above all I see the health system as a whole, its subsystems and finally individuals, the beneficiaries of health services and, above all, the majority satisfaction of individuals. I cannot build my position on individual negative cases and mistakes. These will probably always happen if there is such an ideal health system, as doctors are only human, even in the organization there are weak points and mistakes. We need to be careful, analyse and act on this. I cannot build on my views and views, for example, my colleague, Školč, who is not an expert in the health field in my opinion, but he knows other things. I can't even build my own position, for example, on a fellow Squill because I just don't believe he knows everything. Yesterday, he said he was also acquainted with the health of Minister Bajuk. I rely only on specific data and analyses and, above all, on the opinions of the right professions. But I listen and I see all kinds of interesting and civil movements, on the basis of which you can compare and test solutions to the existing system. Today, to report to the Minister too long a waiting line, the uneconomic treatment of public money, the chaotic savage privatisation, etc., not to mention what is stated in the interpretation, for which you have not submitted any concrete evidence, only indicates that you want to discriminate against the Minister, his associates, the Government and ultimately the coalition. To cite more or less isolated cases, bad cases of unhappy people, I could also refer to cases of people who would be very commendable, but it would be too little time to compare them. The claim that interpellation against Minister Bručano was filed because of patients not interested in politics but when they come in line for surgery, investigation and the like is simply not sustainable is a clear accumulation of political points. If I were a little more of a picker here, if your sense of patients were so acute years ago during the reign of the Liberal Democracy, today the Minister of Health would not be walking along a path that dictates a lack of equipment, personnel and money. I would not solve the challenge caused by the previous minister in purchasing the operating table, the linear accelerator and other public contracts. I submit that Minister Bručan is still well aware of his responsibilities and responsibilities and that in this function he gives everything and more for which he is obliged and for which he has been elected and appointed. That interpellation shows a conscious and even very deliberate denial of the health achievements achieved in Slovenia, a survey also shows the quality of the health systems of the 25 EU and Switzerland countries, a total of 96 countries where Slovenia holds a high - 12th place. The work of the previous governments is also involved. In our health care, therefore, it is not as bad as it wants to appear in interpolation, but I do not say that not all the power is needed to focus on the continuous, systemic and operational improvement of the health system and the waiting period being reduced as much as possible. I generally agree with the indications from the interpretation that waiting periods need to be reduced, but we can discuss this in the National Assembly for hours, and we cannot solve this problem; only the profession can solve it. That is why it takes peace and time to devote itself to it. I trust the Minister to invest all his knowledge and experience in this and to try to replace everything that has been delayed in the past years; thus, he has demonstrated by his analysis that the waiting period has been considerably reduced in the last two years, on average by almost four times. There are still long waiting periods in certain areas, and I trust the Minister that in those areas, too, matters will be resolved positively. Above all, as I have said in the introduction, I am building my views on the opinion of the profession. The professions by the opposition are often stressed - profession, profession. So I will also quote, say professional Dr. Markovicev, Director General of the Clinical Centre, quote: "What has been done in this time, in the last two years, has been good for the functioning of the system, waiting periods have been substantially reduced, additional money has been provided." For example, Dr. Kuštrin, president of the union: "Opts that Dr. Bručan is supposed to manipulate with waiting periods data are not justified. The waiting periods are shrinking, there is no doubt about it, the minister is trying to regulate the system within the system itself and not to attack it from the outside as it has done before." The claim that public health in Slovenia is threatened by the granting of concessions does not hold back. While the Minister states that the concession was not granted in this mandate more than on average in the last 14 years when there were over 900. Here I would like to quote a legal expert, Dr. Pirnat, quote: "In recent times there has been a public controversy about whether public health in Slovenia is threatened by the granting of concessions and there have also been movements and calls for the preservation of public health. Publicly available writings and statements on this are full of wrong concepts and simplified claims, as well as a completely wrong reference to European Community law. One of the most obvious errors is the equality of public health care with public-law providers, i.e. public institutions. It should be noted that public health services are carried out both by public institutions and by private operators with concessions and together they form a public health system. In doing so, it should be noted that each form of operators has its own advantages and disadvantages, which applies to all types of public services and also to health care. Indeed, the advantages of public institutions are in simpler financing and easier financial supervision, but they have a number of shortcomings, a completely non-stimulating system of payment of employees as public servants, stiffness in the use of human resources, instimulating and consequently ineffective management, outdated organisation, irrational use of material resources and lack of funds for investment. In doing so, their non-profit declarations fade as chronic losses cannot possibly be compared to non-profits. For health care is also subject to value law, which means that everything is paid in one way or another. Private operators are a mirror image of public law. Stimulated to take into account the law, value, rational use of material resources, flexible provision of human resources and optimisation of governance. However, much more detailed regulation and more effective supervision are required, and the rationalisations are not at the expense of the quality, services and rights of the patients. It is clear that the weaknesses of public and private operators are being compensated each other and that public-law operators are suitable for certain activities and are private-lawful for others. Thus, public-law providers are more suitable for preventive action: prevention of communicable diseases, emergency medical care, blood supply and organs, public health programmes and so on. However, for most other activities, the advantages of public-law operators do not outweigh their shortcomings. The public health system needs to be an adequate network of public and private operators, with public health providers in our system of public health due to the socialist past very much dominate. Public calls for the preservation of public health thus call for the maintenance of the current scope and position of public-law providers, which is totally pointless in the light of the liberalisation of health services." - end of quote. It could also be around a public invitation to tender, but I think that is what my colleague Kovačič has already said, so that he would not quote Dr Pirnat. Why did I read that quote? Because it was quoted yesterday by a colleague of Bevko's when he was quoting mag. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar, who advocates a completely different position, is a member of the Movement Committee for the Conservation of Public Health. This is said, on the one hand, to be an impartial profession, an expert who gives some of his views, on the other hand, to a civil movement that advocates some interest because they are members of this public health system. And here you have to decide what to take into account. Yes, listen also to these civilian movements, but mainly to rely on expertise. That is why I am convinced that we must follow the European development of healthcare by having quality and cheap healthcare services, so I certainly support the direction of the government and also the minister. The claim of billions of damages due to the high price of medicines, and there was a lot of talk yesterday, so I think it is clear from the data that this is not simply a lie. It is also about a vision of health policy which should not be in place in this mandate. The Minister states that the draft national programme is ready and that 46 recognised experts participated in the work. What is more important is that the programme also contains strategic objectives and measures, their implementation of a forward-looking and action plan. That the programme may not have been a priority at the beginning of the mandate, but I understand why it was necessary to deal with the problems that had accumulated for many years and had been inherited by Dr Bruč from the former Minister, Dr Kebra. The former Minister of Health, whom I believe to be one of the main actors and authors of today's interpretation, points out that he published his vision of health policy in the White Paper, which turns out to be just a collection of big wishes and slogans, not a path to achieving the goals; and that cost us taxpayers a lot of 750 million. But the White Paper rejected even the Liberal Democracy. I'm asking, did anyone answer to the taxpayers for spending that kind of money? Here you could have commented on a case by a colleague of mine, who was a minister in the previous government, and he probably knows this matter well. It is almost as if the Minister of Economy was called to account in the event of an irregular situation in Petrol or Telekom to report to the Minister of Unregulated Health in Slovenska Bistrica and New Town. I claim that health homes have well-known owners, managers and authorities responsible for their work; in the event of inadequate and non-business conduct, leading workers are obliged to resign or be dismissed, which I believe is neither the responsibility nor the responsibility of the minister. I ask about the obvious unaccepted laws: Why have you not already adopted them in the previous term, in previous years? I know we will accept them, this coalition in this mandate. To conclude, I would just like to say that, for the first time, when I really feel that in the debates on the interpretation of your proposals, initiatives and criticisms are well-intentioned and in the interests of all citizens, especially in the field of health care, when we face the right and true arguments on both sides, I will only believe in the well-intentioned interpretation criticisms, not on the basis of political, manipulative, unrealistic, misleading and false criticisms. Therefore, interpretations against the Minister of Health, Mag. Andre Bručan, who deserves all the credit and praise, I will not support anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. School on behalf of the candidates, and then a replica, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much. So Mr Ljublješek has some problem with always coming with texts written in advance and not relying on what we are saying here. It's so obvious to us that we're not experts. Of course, we are not experts, but what we represent here does not mean that some experts have not prepared. Mr Ljubeljšek, I have asked the Minister when we are talking about this decision, which he adopted on 11.12., why did the Mutual provide a significant asset benefit when he prescribed that certain data should be given to the Mutual, but this decision does not apply to Adriatic, nor to Triglav, which also has additional insurance. He didn't answer that. Nor did he respond to all those matters related to the legal basis for data collection. In the absence of this basis, I have quoted Minister Sturm, solely from his record, and so far, Mr Ljubeljšek, I have thought that Minister Šturm is an expert in law. Among other things, he was a constitutional judge. The Minister answered all sorts of things today, but not repeated questions, I take that as agreeing with these accusations, and that's a good thing. But I don't understand that you don't take this silent agreement as a proven mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Dr. Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, there are three things that bother me in the direction of your ministry: operationality, economy and laws that are completely inanimate. I am also not surprised that you initially expressed your surprise about the implementation of colleague Žnidaršič, because he is right out of life, from practice told how things are going. It's about operationality. When you took over the Ministry two years ago, when you visited the entire Government in Pomour, you ensured the rapid opening of the Pomura maternity ward. It'll start working in three months. So far, after more than two years the maternity ward is still not working, it is closed and the operating tables, which have been discussed so much, are still just set up, not in function. And in the next three months, if we want to start with a forecast from this point on, I'm afraid the maternity ward will still not work, it won't be open, but I want to be wrong. And the next thing is health care and health care, because even because of concessions, the situation is not improved, because in Pomura the situation is not better because of all these changes and additional money. And despite the lack of 2,600 doctors and the possibility of expecting at least 540 pensions, you have given a negative opinion on the role of a doctor who is already healthy but who does not have Slovenian citizenship. I don't know how we're going to make up for this failure, not just this one doctor, of course all the needy doctors who avoid environments that are more remote from the center. The economy has been exposed several times. You haven't answered Anderlich's question about helicopters yet, and so far there's been a speech about 400 million more, but 400 million can be large or small. And 400 million more than 80, as far as the military helicopter has cost, is 6 times more. 480 million is the total amount, you're now ready to pay so much more than 80. Why? Because you thought it was better because you were deceiving the military by refusing to sign recent contracts. No, you took advantage of this as a chance that the contract would not be renewed. In the Middle Ages, the military has a vital role and mission, such as its basic purpose in military time. Helping to save lives and to participate in charitable humanitarian activities is a particularly important task for the military. I don't speak empty. The military even has a directive on cooperation with civil organisations and associations with which it can cooperate in this area. Now, what happens is that the military is going to be doing nothing during the summers, and on the other hand, we're going to be paying so much more. It's not about 400 million, it's about 480 million, it's about 6 times more for someone, I stress, someone who's been chosen by the invitation to tender, and that's the problem. It's about inanimateness. Some time ago, we were able to see a prediction that those involved in so-called adrenaline sports would be deprived of financial burdens, or that their treatment of injuries that might occur or should be further protected against this cost later would not be fully covered. How lifeless this matter is, it also turned out to be when you turned adrenaline sports into so-called risky and extreme activities. Neither the first nor the second of course have you explained what you imagine under risky adrenaline or extreme activities, and of course these matters are completely undefined. Look what's at risk for you, maybe it's not risky for me or the other way around. It is probably not as risky for you to ride a bicycle as it is for me and vice versa; you will probably feel significantly more risky when diving than I do. Many such cases can, of course, be found everywhere and what is the objective, what is the result of this reckless proposal, that they will be punished, that they will be financially burdened athletes. Who? So those who are, on the one hand, the example of young people, the top athletes are many young people's examples and they distract them from the sidelines, but they point them to sport, which has proven positive effects, that young people are cited in order, they are deterred from ploys, and, of course, they are also cited in a positive attitude towards their life and health. Sports will be punished, top athletes - because the ultimate sport is already by definition extreme activity - which were far from the best promoters of Slovenia abroad. What's worse? Those athletes who carry out their activities for humanitarian purposes will be punished. In my mind, I have a mountain rescue service, a underwater rescue service, a cave rescue service, i.e. those who, in order to be trained for this activity, have to engage in and do extremely much of their primary sports activity, which is necessary for the safe conduct of humanitarian activities when their health, when their lives, is not only free time, but also their equipment offers a wider community for the benefit of those in difficulty. Instead of taking into account what is stated in the Sports Act, that athletes need to be provided with free medical examinations, no, we will further penalise athletes, additional financial burdens. And worst of all, the minister with this proposal wants athletes, top-notch, extreme athletes, the best ones to throw in the same basket with, say, alcoholic drivers who are supposed to be subject to similar restrictions. Of course that's not right. I've listed only a few cases, and I'm sorry we're running out of time, where it's pretty clear that our interpretation isn't a deception to the public, but it's a cruel truth, it's a cruel fact. And you, Mr. Secretary, deceive the public with different interpretations of the reduction, about how health care is better. Unfortunately, people are always more afraid of seeing doctors. And not because of what they're gonna tell them there, but because it doesn't work the way it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. These four points, however, are necessary according to their comments. With regard to the opening of the maternity ward in Murska Sobota and even the state of health in Murska Sobota, I have to say, this area, which I have studied most closely in the last year, and the problems that have been experienced in Pomurje with respect to doctors as well as with nurses or with the number of doctors, have not worsened at the time that I took over the ministry. On the contrary, we have managed to improve things in some areas, even in some parts. For a direct question to a non-Slovenian citizen regarding the acquisition of a licence and the ability to work, the Medical Chamber depends. It's not up to me. They are therefore perfectly clear rules and conditions concerning the Medical Chamber, which the doctor must have, a foreign citizen in order to work in Slovenia. That's why I can't take any responsibility here. It is true, however, that it is important to take care of the entry of foreigners into our health system, as our health depends on it. With regard to the maternity ward, I can say that the procedure for equipping the hospital is to purchase some of the equipment necessary for the normal functioning of this hospital at the final stage. I will not now talk about deadlines, because surprises are always possible regarding various calls and complaints, but still, things are in the final stage and I hope that we will actually realize your wishes within three months. As for adrenaline sports, you have the very wrong idea. Never, never, not in any draft, not in the one that came before a good year and a half or a good year in public without any need that has not yet been drafted, nor in that draft has there been any speech that will be affected by athletes. Absolutely not a single sentence. But if you find him, please tell me. We talked all the time only about it, then really about adrenaline sports, and later, as you correctly found out, about those who deal with [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the activity. Such a way of paying for the damage that occurs in such risky activities is characteristic of the presence of all over the world. There's no country that would pay for the damage caused by skiing with Triglav if someone went down there, paid from compulsory health insurance. She's not here. That's what you pay for, and me, so much nonsense, and only in such cases. This is not the case with the one who walks to Triglav and gets hurt. This is a completely wrong interpretation and repeat it some well for a year after the name adrenaline sport has been abolished long ago, when we have actually talked to the Olympic Committee about all matters and when things are completely different than you are today. Here I repeat, there was no possibility in any draft that recreational athletes, but top athletes, would be excluded from the same payment method as other citizens who are health-protected. If you find any such text, I'd like to see it in the bill itself. There's no such thing. But the talk was about adrenaline sports, which were initially poorly defined, that is true and are now quite clear with this example, which I have also told you now. When I hurt myself in Switzerland on a ski resort, in an unprotected area, they asked me first if I had 5,000 francs. Of course that's not right. That way, it's disgusting to me, and I don't support it. In any case, however, it is good to try to raise people in this direction in order to provide additional insurance for such risky activities, as I mentioned earlier, and thus have every opportunity to provide adequate care in the event of an accident that arises in the event of such an emergency or a truly dangerous event. In fact, I have answered these questions. I'd like to answer one more question, and I'll answer one more.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac has a replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much. As you yourself have found, the texts were initially undefined and, therefore, it is even more important that you have now explicitly ensured that sports activities, recreational activities, as a consequence of course also humanitarian activities will not be part of these, but I still argue - unthinkable and unanimous proposals of the law, but for what you have just stated here, of course we will hold you to your word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate and I give the word mags. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. To all, especially to the Minister, a very nice greeting. For two days now, I think the Slovenian public is thinking about what is actually going on. Because we are dealing with a matter which is substantive interpretation against Minister Kebra. But Minister Keber has been no longer a minister for two years. If Mr Kebra were then to be interpelled, exactly the following matters were in place. The issue of the competitiveness he has failed to deal with; the question of the waiting lines that have been extended and prolonged and indefinitely during Mr Kebra's time; the issue of the operating tables that he has caused and to the end was complicated by himself and the LDS government in which he has sat; the question of the Mutual, which was caused by bad legislation and which he has also failed to resolve in any way for the benefit and satisfaction of all, and the issue of clientism and nepotism. Interestingly, all of these things, which Dr. Keber has faced very unsuccessfully all the time during his term, I think have been sufficiently well known to the public since the beginning of his term, are now coming true to Dr. Bručan, who has been very well and adequately resolving all these things since the beginning of his term. Yeah, who's got somebody crazy around here now? Excuse me. Let's go in one order. I'll start at the end. As far as the mutual question is concerned. The mutual, as it was said, was not created as a problem in the time of Dr. Bručan, but in the time of the previous LDS government ministers. The legislation that was made at the time was obviously bad, and we all eventually solved it together. I would like to remind you that we have successfully completed this by obtaining a time interval due to the authentic interpretation of the law that I myself have proposed. You didn't propose it. I proposed it. And I also wrote the basic text, with the help of legal experts, we signed it in Brussels, we shared it with you, we didn't own it, and then we solved it. This gave us time to adopt a law properly prepared by Dr. Bručan. Let's move on. The reading of clientism and nepotism. But in the back, that sounds awful, so let's translate it into ordinary Slovenian first, so that people will know what we're talking about. It is an abuse of authority to satisfy certain financial interests, either by personal friends or by related ties, that is to say that you employ family members. But as for this in practice, you know, I've tried it recently on my own. And let me say what I'm saying as an example of how badly it's manipulated by people who are also today proposing this story that's exactly in this story. Let me give you my sister's example. Mr Lahovnik had launched in public some time ago that she was a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Krajina company Emeco in order to obtain, I don't know, what kind of meeting. That is what he was saying in this context, and then it was uncritical of everyone. I couldn't even give him a replica at the time because he chose such a moment, that was the explanation for the words that I couldn't replicate anymore because the president wouldn't let me. Now it has recently been used by another journalist in one of the most viewed shows in Slovenia, so I would like to say in public if this is evident, my fellow dear, first thing you need to know, she is not yet a member of the Iskraemec Supervisory Board. If anyone doubts whether he should go to the website now and look at the entry in the court book, since it has not yet been entered into the court book, the proceedings are still pending. Very interesting. He's been manipulating this for months. That's the first manipulation. Another one that's even worse. Because why is he manipulating her? He's manipulating himself because he wants to discredit me. And he's not just manipulating her, he's manipulating my brother, he's manipulating my parents, he's manipulating my old aunt, even my old aunt, who has one very unfortunate circumstance in her life, and now he wouldn't explain it. Because you can't. What are you gonna do about my work? I wrote the Law on the Majority System, I wrote the Law on RTV, I wrote the Law on the Electoral Districts, I proposed this in relation to the Mutual, these things were all positively evaluated in one way or another. At two referendums, I was with, in deleted and in RTV Slovenia. Okay, we can talk about this, this is really my job, but it's my family's business, guys. American textbooks teach that discreditation of relatives to discredit someone in politics is the most obscenity, primitive and contemptible form of a negative electoral campaign, so only in knowledge. Well, let me get back to that. If there really was a problem of customerism and nepotism, then I should be proposing or participating in his appointment, and I can say it publicly, with all the authority, and I'm willing to prove it in court if anyone ever claims otherwise. I didn't propose to my sister anywhere. More than that, when I heard that it was proposed, I had doubts about this proposal. Not because of her expertise, colleagues, because I know that in those areas she has mastered, she is much more professional than Mr Lahovnik, who does not reach even to the fifth, but had so much to say about her. But because I knew the world was full of hyenas in human form, who would try to use it to throw mud at my family. Thus, the issue of clientism and nepotism in this mandate is being manipulated by those who have also written such claims into this interpretation. More than that, if you want to know, I have even suggested to my sister that she withdraw from those functions after the appointment has already been made. And she rejected me with words that, interestingly, the President of the Government said on television: "Why should you not work professionally in any field in this Slovenia if you are related to someone who is in politics? Where did we come from in this country?" That's it, fellas, about that story. So much for customerism and nepotism. Let's move on. All those problems that you were talking about, and especially waiting types, he successfully solved exactly Dr. Bručan. And now one wonders, it has also been solved in a way of creating more competitiveness, because this is in practice a matter of awarding concessions. This is how it is established within the system, but it works as a whole, because of course you have all deliberately overlooked. And this works more effectively than before what has been done so far, creating some internal competitiveness. And that is very good, because then I hope that over time there will also be a reduction in what I believe is the biggest problem of current health care as a whole, regardless of the form in which it is doing it, namely, that false solidarity. If someone makes a mistake, then others try to sweep the error under the carpet because no one is sure that there is no skeleton in the closet. When there is full responsibility for every move, even the court, if you want, including the compensation, fully established - I hope that when we get there, you know the model from some democratic countries, from the US ahead - then I think it will benefit all of Slovenia, and in particular the users of health services. The first step is to achieve this kind of development and a more positive attitude towards patients, but there is more competitiveness. Exactly what the European Directive is and what you non-Europeanly oppose is, by the way, so to speak. Why is this actually being discussed so much? Allow me to quote one of the well-known LDS members at the previous meeting on Friday, when it was also a matter of one of the ministers, only then that his resolution was not proposed by the opposition, but by the President of the Government. At that time, one of the LDS Members, I quote, said, "It is not just about protecting those who are disadvantaged, it is also about protecting those who are facing any kind of revenge." And with that, he unwittingly said what is the essence of your interpretation. It is about revenge against Minister Bručan because he has successfully begun to solve all those problems that have accumulated during the period when you should be solving them, and you have unfortunately failed to do so. Look. Let me get this over with. I mentioned the case earlier, because sometimes we are a little personal when I was alone, and I am often the victim of this pathological vendetta as now Dr. Bručan, because of all the things he has successfully accomplished. In this light, I find some of the actions that are fully understandable, which are related to this Parliament, and they do not appear to be so closely linked to this interpretation. I am also sure that if anyone knows the situation in the LDS and the people, especially at the top of this party, this is certainly their former president, the current president of the country, Dr Janez Drnovšek. In the light of this treachery, this pathological vendetta and, of course, the constant controversy that we are also witnessing to the public, at the top of the LDS, I must say that it seems to me that the President of the State with this gesture, when he proposed a distinguished psychiatrist as the new Ombudsman, that he actually wanted to show what he thought those who had already predicted that they would "kill" for his inheritance. He may be right, but I certainly don't want to judge himself, but I would like to point out if this was his opinion in this direction that he wanted to offer his former colleagues what they needed most, and the Minister has already taken care of it, because in his initial discussion we were able to learn that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u73	Mr. Grimes, this is where it went a little too far. I've been trying to break up with you for a while now, but this has gone way too far, and that's an insult.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u74	Dude, I know you're also feeling personally hurt. It's okay if I do, but now I'm talking about what Mr. Minister said. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u75	Please. Given your experience, I expect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u76	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. Please respect the Rules of Procedure and give me back my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u77	I respect him, but you don't respect him.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u78	For if it was the fact that the President of the State had in mind exactly what I said I would not like to judge, I would point out that Dr Bručan had already taken care of this, because in the opening part of his debate he made it very clear how important it was and how much help he had invested and how much energy to improve the situation of Slovenian psychiatry. It is said that in this respect his conduct and his insight can be regarded as state-owned. So, everybody, thank you so much and good luck. Mr. Secretary, my vote will, of course, be in your favor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u79	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the vice president who led the show so far. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! Dear and respected colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I would only say this if you know more precisely the powers and powers of the Ombudsman, then you know that these powers and powers are primarily directed towards the current authorities, and if, in this sense, Mr President had any motive more behind him to propose the very lady we will vote on tomorrow, then I understand him. Now, I would like to say this: Of course, there has been a lot of this that I intend to say right now. In particular, however, I would like to point out some discrimination between what is said in our interpretation, i.e., between the findings contained in our interpretation and the answers that we also find in the written reply of the Minister of Health and then also in oral performances. But I would like to remind you of this, today we are on 13 December 2006 and we are discussing the interpretation of a minister who has been a member of this government for two years now, and so take note of this, please, because I have the feeling that some continue to take advantage of some trips to the past and are trying to find some reasons that are no longer available there, but to look for them in this current government and in the current ministry and the Minister of Health. If you, Mr Minister, have recognized from the arguments cited in the interpretation as their common denominator only the flat-rate use of demagogic charges - as you have written down - only nonchalantness can be recognized as the common denominator of your response, which really turns cities into exaltation or deceiving. When, for example, you justify a large number of concessions granted in the field of basic health care, you refer to the 2004 Supreme Court decision, which can only be used as a opposing argument, i.e. as an argument for when and in what cases these concessions cannot be granted. For the Supreme Court makes it clear that there is no need to grant a concession if the municipality’s territory complies with the standards and standards applicable to the establishment of a public service network sufficient for health activities. It is clear, however, that new concessionaires can be included in the public health service network on the basis of a call for tender only in cases where the number of carriers and other health workers or co-workers is reduced due to other causes such as termination of work due to retirement, death, illness and the like. However, we have had cases where a doctor canceled a working relationship in a healthcare home, resulting in a reduction in the number of health care providers in a healthcare home and thus created the possibility of applying for a concession. If such a concession had already been promised in advance, such a procedure could at all be a fine and smooth glass. Minister Bručan says, "I hope you do not wish to return to the time when private work was banned." No, not at all. We insist, however, that the award of concessions must be transparent and in accordance with legislation. We also object to the destruction of public health without serious analysis, without adequate "cost benefit" assessments and, of course, not with very likely corruption or customerism. Unplanned and wild awarding of concessions without previous analyses and plans is particularly harmful in relation to top experts at secondary and tertiary level. On the one hand, for example, it is the impoverishment of the University Clinical Centre, and on the other hand we fear that individual specialists will avoid patients who pose a high risk and a great deal of uncertainty for the success of the necessary intervention. It is also impossible to predict any possible complications that may arise in individual operations. For example, where will a narrow specialist come from? Then where are they going to send such a patient as soon as possible? Probably to a nearby hospital or a clinical center. Minister Bručan you take a great responsibility on your shoulders or you are so responsible that you are also actually able to bear it, I do not think we should risk that and allow the situation when we can check it out. More and more indictees are, Mr Minister, that you can prove to be a successful gravedigger of public health before you finally bury it, tell us how the health services will come to those who have the lowest income, and those who cannot afford to afford the self-payments that are already being paid for by certain emergency medicines are severely financially affected. Of course, they will probably not move out of the country anymore, as our colleague Dr. Žnidaršič suggested. I would also like to recall that the cytopathological affair and the two urgent meetings of the Committee of the National Health Council have revealed that a number of professional errors, financial irregularities and even illegality have occurred in the field of cytopathological investigations and analyses, and the situation is still not improving as a result of the Minister's failure to act. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, what you said at the Health Committee. I quote. "I think the first thing that needs to be accepted in this area is new legislation. The legislation currently in force is inappropriate. Marriage, but we will make sure that we accept it as soon as possible," the end of the quote. Dear Minister! The fact is that the laboratories have been and are still professionally out of order and operate under different professional parameters and without supervision. To this day, the Ministry has not yet arranged this, despite your long-standing predictions, the activity is still illegally carried out by a private laboratory, perhaps in accordance with your operation it will receive a full concession. There is neither professional nor financial supervision. Finally, let me say that, of course, it was very serious to warn my colleague, Jožef Školč, about the provision of information on the name of medicines by pharmacies, insurance companies and them, Mr Minister. Clearly, though, it is illegal to do so. Moreover, it interferes with the constitutional principle of the protection of personal data. And I ask you, are you really so easy to whistle at? Well, you are not the only minister of this government that you do not care about the rule of law, respect for the Constitution and the rule of law, respect for fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms. Have you, Mr Minister, considered that the availability of such violations may also increase the number of judicial proceedings at home and there to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg? The damage is obviously already done, and the question is whether they will be affected will be aware of all the legal pathways they have at their disposal to welcome you, if I say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday, when this debate began, I listened carefully and some of the types of candidates for this interpretation made it clear and loudly that this interpretation is well-intentioned, that it is about health care, the health system, that we will live healthier lives in Slovenia, and that we will have more, if we get sick, a better quality health service. I myself am aware that health is an invaluable asset and I would be delighted to accept any effort in this direction that we are actually doing something about health. Unfortunately, later discussions, at least they showed me, raised some doubts that I am no longer sure that there is some kind of well-intention. I'm going to give you a few examples on which I've come to this belief. First of all, I listened carefully to a fellow Member who mentioned the Medici case and made it clear that in this case the property was damaged. I know there's a lot of things going on behind these phone booths here, but I think it's good that what's said is true that it's not some kind of deception. In this case, which I do not know, is an extremely large and the biggest problem of our health care, but illustrates only the approach of those who advocate this interpretation, is that one company, specifically Medic, has obtained rental premises at the General Hospital in Izola. It is important to stress, however, that these premises have been leased through a public tender. By the way, this company also received a concession without a tender awarded by Minister Keber, who was also Minister of Health when this invitation to tender for the award of these premises was also made. And this company fully fulfils all its obligations at Koper General Hospital and how can we then say that this case caused damage to property. Secondly, despite the so-called benevolence, declared, I have heard a lot of very difficult words here in the debate. We've heard that it's a breakdown of the health system, a medical disaster, inappropriate wild privatisation, a disassembly of a network of health homes, a minister protecting a medical lobby, motive is just profit and more, and we could list them. But allow me, because I don't really agree with this lot or anything and to comment on at least a few things. First of all, the breakdown of the health system, the disaster, the chaos, and so on. We are confident and the data show that our health care is such or otherwise accessible to all, at least as accessible as it was years ago, and because of the additional concessionaires I am convinced that this accessibility has even improved considerably and that we can expect some more steps in the positive direction in the future. Access to these services is equal, under the same conditions and in public institutions and in those with concessions. The data clearly show, and this has already been stated several times here, that waiting periods are considerably shorter, including the fact that the satisfaction of patients is greater, that international research has also confirmed that our health system is in an enviously high place compared to other countries, and certainly does not indicate that there is chaos and disaster or that our system has already fallen apart, not even before the collapse. And there's something else that I think is very important to stress. The fact that, by also introducing concessionaires, there has been some internal competition on this segment, leading to a higher quality of services, not only among concessionaires, but also among those who are employed in these public institutions, and I think that all of us as potential patients are just satisfied. The second thing that I think has been very gravely manipulated about the granting of concessions for inappropriate wild privatisation is simply not true, and this needs to be emphasized again, and to those who do not understand the concept of privatisation, we will say it again 10 or 100 times. It's not about owning public health. Privatising would mean publicly, collectively, turning the state into something private, but this is about the concessionaire providing public and health services that are accessible to all and that do not cost society any more than services in these health homes. And in the end. Still, anyone can choose voluntarily where to seek this necessary medical care. And the public interest is, in my opinion, guaranteed by a concession contract with which both parties must agree. If the concessionaire's offer is not good enough, it is not acceptable, then those authorised to sign the concession contract will not simply conclude it with this concessionaire. Motive is just profit. It is clear that the concessionaire who survives this activity has to act rationally, that he has to make sure that in the end, I do not know, positive results. After all, his economic and social situation depends on it. And there is nothing wrong with enjoying the results of his good work, but it is also important that this concessionaire carries all the risks, professionally, economically and other. This risk, on the other hand, also the opportunity to enjoy the results of its work, of course, also leads to better quality services, better spaces, better spaces, more accessible working hours, and something else to have these patients too. That's why I think it's because someone makes a profit out of it, in a rumor, then I'm sure they get a profit out of it from the patients. And now for the third thing that relates to the honesty of this benevolence. I heard a little earlier that we have MPs defending the work of our minister too many trips to the past, but I will talk about the facts. In one municipality, specifically the municipality of Domžale, where the mayor was also one of the proponents of this interpretation, several concessions, 8 for doctors, 6 for dentists and two pharmacies have been awarded in recent years. I am sure that these concessions have not been granted because of some clienteleism or corruption, as we have just listened to, or because of bad intentions, but because of the quality of these health services. And when we hear that concessions are granted today without any rules, without laws and so on, then this would also apply to the period when, say, in one specific congregation, I know that it is not the only time these concessions were awarded. And even then, we could ask if the disputed minister was in granting concessions, including the responsibility of the then minister, but that did not happen. Why? I'm not gonna judge that I won't be too long in the past. However, I am sure that if we are talking about the responsibility and work of Minister Bručan, he has taken quite a few steps forward in his mandate and I see no reason to support this interpretation as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. Yes, on behalf of the proposer, Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Because of the talk of the Domžale Congregation, I am obliged to replicate it in some way to a colleague. I already said yesterday that these 15 concessions were granted in 12 years. But there are still more than half of all doctors in our health care system and we do not detect any major problems. It's just proof that we don't have what you wanted to tell us yesterday, no ideological prejudices before the award of concessions. In the first sentence of our text, we said that we were not against it. However, we are against the fact that this is happening hastily, without the Act of Concessions, and that the congregations themselves had to find themselves in this situation. And last but not least, my friend, Minister Keber sent clear instructions to all mayors in 2002 on how to grant concessions, what to pay attention to, how to regulate on-calls and so on. And when this happened, we also had a health care plan in Slovenia. That's not what today is. Today this is not the case, but everything is going wild and on average. And what you said earlier was that this would involve more competitiveness, yes, in a way, but for this quality it is not only about competitiveness, but mainly about supervision - supervision is not by the congregation, but by the Medical Chamber. And for 1,200 concessionaires, 16 professional controls were performed last year, say and write. With such supervision, which the Ministry is also responsible for, unfortunately, we cannot be sure that everything is going as it should. Even if the congregations are careful enough to do so, they are powerless at certain times. Believe me, I have a 12-year practice, and I have no ideological prejudice before this case. But I warn you of all the traps, and you do not want to hear them, and you do not want to freeze the continuation of this procedure, which is not going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u86	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! I want you to, mag. Bručan, thank you for everything you've done good for Slovenian health. On the other hand, today we are also called on to assess your work in the middle of the term, because in two years' time the new Government will be sitting here and a new Parliament will be sitting, so you had to fulfil those promises made to the electorate by the Government. You are the minister you have, forgive the expression, the lilyputan budget according to other ministers, very little money, and therefore your duty is greater to regulate the system as such through legislation. For it is the law that governs the public sector, which governs the programmes in the public sector. Look, Mr. Minister, I won the government's 2006 work programme on 17.5.2006 and - what did I see? Here are 14 laws that should be submitted or should have been adopted by the National Assembly by that time. The first is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment; you did not do so. But it must be said that you saved this substance by means of the Blood Supply Act. The second is the Biocidal Products Act, which you nicely put through, and then Mr. Secretary is stuck with you. We do not have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food. Adoption of this Regulation is mandatory. Do you? Yeah, but look, the thing is, the deadline for admission is 5.10.2006, and you're breaking this deadline. So we don't have what you promised here, but it can be in the procedure and this thing is talking about the maximum permitted level of radioactive contamination of food and feed. Then determine the procedures for food contaminants, etc. It concerns the health of all people in the Republic of Slovenia and 25 regulations are accompanied by this law. Then, Minister, under number 4, the National Chemical Safety Programme, you say you did, but there are five laws on mental health. Adoption of this Regulation is not mandatory. 15.11.2006 should therefore be adopted in history. This law does not seem to be as smart or as important to you as it is to give it, and this mental health, or the things that are defined in this law, on the sidelines, is the same as the Law on the Rights of Patients. This should be adopted on 10.12.2006, a few days ago. We don't have it. Then you have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, 10.12.2006, and then you have, Minister, under number 9, the National Health Programme. This should be adopted on 21.12.2006. As we have seen, we don't have this and you're halfway through the mandate and you're a minister, in my opinion, because you weren't able to bring this law through the procedure, Minister without a compass. Those who do not have a market economy when they have to defend the public interest of the programme, the National Health Programme, the fishermen in the mud. This has already been seen in concessions, this has been seen in several things, because if we had this program, if we were to anchor it, you would have some strategy on how to sail in the sea of health. But that's how you sail here once, once there, and I have to tell you, the Minister is even worse in the field of higher education, because this thing should have been adopted a year ago. Despite the emergency room, it is not yet accepted, and if these things are not accepted, it is possible in the market economy to award concessions with a very left hand, to assign other things with a left hand, and also to grant concessions to your friends, or to a client's or someone who leads you into the Ministry's composition or something similar. Here I think your work was so that you can't give him support. Then it's the Long-Term and Long-Term Insurance Act. He's not here. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Alcohol. Alcohol, you mean. [[?]] that there is no problem in Slovenia. Look at the roads. Look at the other stuff. It should be accepted. He wasn't accepted. Then you have two more laws, which should be adopted by 1. 2007 and they're not. This is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Presentation of Substances for illicit drugs, etc. So, from these things that I have now mentioned to you here, when I went to see what was adopted by this date, out of the 14 things only 5 laws have been passed, which means, Minister, that you are working with 35% success in the field of legislation. What was here could make the percentage a little bit more or less. And it seems to me that because you do not have a national health programme at this time, that you are, in fact, incapacitate, because you do not have the right to do certain things, entropy into the health system, and it seems to me that because you do not have a national health programme at this time, that you are either incompetent or possibly, forgive the expression, which I doubt, depending on your activities, whether lazy or reckless, but in my opinion you are one of the failed ministers, and according to the criteria given by Mr Janez Janš to replace Minister Drobnik, who should be replaced before the Presidency of the European Union, you should have long before your colleague Drobnik put you on the premises of this National Assembly or invite you to resign. I think, Minister, in this context of which I have talked about, you are hurting the country as such, not working with all the resources for the well-being of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore it would be better for your own integrity, for your reputation to withdraw before, of course, the National Assembly decides on this and will, given the distribution of political power, see Mr Minister, not one member of the Slovenian People's Party is here, not one member of DeSUS is here, not one member of New Slovenia. They'll come because [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I forgive one New Slovenia Member, I forgive myself, I have not seen you, because you are not in your place and while I speak you have your conferences instead of listening to arguments. [[...]] It's okay. He who can hear, but he who can know. [[?]] And that's why it's going to be decided as it's been announced in the parties. But it seems to me that in this condition, when it comes to human health, I am 62 years old, and I am sitting through what you are here, in the National Assembly, that people should be here, we should face arguments, we should separate the grain from the weeds, so that in the vast part of what happened here, there was an attack by one sex at the other half and a reanimation of history, and not worry about the well-being of Slovenia, so that we have better foundations in health than there is now. [[...]] For all this, Mr. Minister, I will, of course, vote in favour of getting rid of you. I know that this voice will just be one voice minus against the vast majority of the coalition, except one that will vote for you, but there are also people who have come to know each other, such as a colleague from DeSUS who said that I don't care that you're also violating the coalition contract, and I have to say again that you're a compass-free driver because you don't have a National Health Programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u88	I'll be here in a very short time. I'll just give you a direct answer. By the way, the data you have is a little bit older, it's a little out of date, something's changed here. It has been found that as many as three of those mentioned in the law are no longer part of the government's work programme, because they are ineffective in this regard, because of the various European laws and that, of course, we have before us the actual adoption of three of these laws, which are all prepared and that I have already explained everything today or yesterday, how these laws are and where the basic problems are. Of course, our percentage, which you have listed here, is not yet real, because it is not only about the laws, it is about everything, there are also regulations and regulations that are in the domain of the Ministry and Government and our percentage of realisation is significantly higher than 62%, which was at the last meeting of the Government [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you. The days before we had an interpellation against Dr. Vask Simoniti here, I marked this interpretation as intellectual black construction, and really this black construction collapsed. Today's interpretation, however, seems to me to be one of the sorry writings of some small size that had to leave the government two years ago and which have not even been able to cross this threshold here in Parliament. I'm sure this shake of the mountain won't give birth to even the smallest mouse. However, colleagues from the opposition or the Liberal Democracy should look in the mirror before bringing this mirror here to Parliament and start setting it up for the Minister of Health. At that time, this interpolation would also have some moral weight. Remember that Minister Keber mentioned some three years ago that the situation in Slovenian hospitals is chaotic. Perhaps so, but those who caused the situation did not then ask themselves that question. Something about speculation has already been said here today, what would have happened if it had been. I will avoid these speculations, of course, what would happen if, for example, I won the local elections in Ljubljana, Mr Kunič. He ran out of 99% until that victory. I would rather discuss what it was like and how it was and focus, for example, on the hospital in Slovenj Gradc, which is connected to LDS. The director of this hospital, Dr Vladimir Topler, sat in that chair years ago as Vice-President of the National Assembly, is a member of the LDS, now LDS municipal councillor at Muta and probably colleagues from LDS will not claim that it was not a political setup at the time in the post of Director of General Hospital in Slovenj Gradec. Mr Topler was also the president of the Red Cross at the time when the Slovenian Red Cross shook the biggest affair, we had famous actors, Mr Kirn, who, of course, was once again of the LDS. The Court of Auditors carried out a public health audit in 2003, according to known salary excesses. So for the period 2003 and 2004 for the period when it was in LDS power. On 17 January this year, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia called on the Council of the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec to discharge the Director because, according to the Court of Auditors, the Director violated the principle of good business by giving him a medical allowance. For the Director is not entitled to a medical allowance, at the time he is acting as director, and during this revised period, here are the audits, the audit report, received by the Director of the Slovenian hospital paid over 2.7 million tolars of the medical supplement. Indeed, this practice continued in 2005. The Court of Auditors further notes that, during this period, the Director performed most of the overtime during the regular period, which was when he performed the work of the Director and in 95% of the time when the Slovenian hospital considered this to be an overtime, Mr Director performed the work of the Managing Authority, that is, the Director, and these irregularities were for an additional 1.1 million tolars. At the beginning of February this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia dismissed the business director, who until recently performed this function as v.d., but was reappointed by the General Hospital Board as director. It is also interesting that a gift contract was made again in one of the customer exhibitions in Koroška and, of course, means one big nonsense. They signed a harmful gift contract with the donor Vladimir Zaluberski, who is a very suspicious businessman, at least in Koroška we know him well and this contract was worth 480 million tolars. This businessman promised plans, he promised part of the money, none of these plans. And so there was none of the planned reconstruction of the Slovenian National Hospital, which is scheduled to start on April 1st this year. Mr Beggart from the Ministry of Health noted that these delays resulted in about 23 million tolars of monthly damage. And the implementation of this project to rebuild the Slovenian National Hospital moved to 2009, of course, if everything is lucky. At that time, Minister Bručan reacted very wisely and did not sign this disputed harmful contract. I myself warned the hospital director not to sign it for God's sake, because I wrote dozens of articles about the donor gentleman in the early 1990s, but he didn't stick to it. The loss of a Slovenian hospital amounted to 127 million in 2004, a loss of 143 million last year, a loss of about 300 million this year. Nevertheless, we are extremely pleased with Koroška, because this Government and Minister Bručan, for the first time after about ten, twelve years, looked at Koroška, dedicated to rebuilding the Slovenian hospital of 3.7 billion tolars, and I am sure that we will be able to get this investment through in the coming years. And the Koros are extremely grateful for this money, for the attention of the government and the minister. Of course, I will not support the interpretation of Minister Bručan alone. But there's something else I'd like to say about helicopter rescue. I don't think there's any such rescue left to the police and the military anywhere in the world. Experts also argue that such a solution, which is expected to be implemented in the future, is not more expensive than it has been before, as helicopter rescue of police and military personnel costs something. This kind of resolution also brings us closer to the developed European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Germić has the floor, on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Of course, I regret the fact that we also use interpellation against the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan, to resolve and regulate the human resources issues of the ruling coalition party. As a reason for solving the problems at the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, it would be right to present the story of this hospital, Mr Petek. And if you were referring to the loss, it would be good to say how the operation of this hospital has been done in the last two years, so, in 2004 and 2005, it has taken place. Because from the data provided by you, it may also appear that income growth for this hospital - that is, I am talking about data from the report Data and business indicators of health institutions in 2005 - that the income growth in this hospital in 2004 was 105.7 and in 2005 109.3, which is one of the more successful in these two years. Therefore, I regret, Mr Friday, if you have used the case of the Slovenian hospital. Given that we can monitor changes in the composition of the boards of institutions under the direction of this Ministry throughout Slovenia and are replacing the directors of the institutions - say, look at Mursko Sobota, see the replacement in the medical institution in Maribor - and now you are preparing the area, Mr. Petek, even through this interpretation, perhaps because you want to put your candidate in the hospital of Slovenj Gradec under the pretext you cited here today. I regret that the debate has gone this way as well. That is why I hope and expect, Mr Minister, that you will take these procedures to good hospitals, not in terms of client-line staffing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u93	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor. Or, sir, did you raise your hand because of the replica? Yes, there you go. Yes, please, if you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u94	Yes, thank you very much for your word. These are simple facts. That's what the Court of Auditors showed, and there's nothing to add. But we can add to what you said about losses. See, last year there was a loss of 143 million tolars, this last year's loss represents 2.4% of income, which Slovenia's pea hospital ranks immediately for Isola, where the loss represents 9% of income. Here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, and also yesterday, roughly, if I am not mistaken, we are discussing almost 16 hours of inter-interpretation against Minister of Health Andre Bručan. Interpellation was tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia with the first signed Mrs. Cveto Zalokar Orazem. However, she filed this interpolation right at the time of the local elections. Of course, we can safely say that it was a typical pre-election move. This pre-election move has also proved to be at the time of the intervention tabled by Ambassador Shirca against the Minister of Culture. And, of course, I am sure that today's debate, as it was ten days ago about the Minister of Culture, will of course show that in this case, too, there will be purely unfounded convictions, criticisms, arguments that I believe are more entrenched. A shortcut to things that don't hold back. However, if some things appear to be justified in the course of this debate, and in my opinion it is necessary to clean up first before the threshold, it is therefore necessary to first look at what has happened in the field of health and has taken place in the past. For example, if we look at the situation in the field of Citipathological Investigations. What has happened in this area is totally unacceptable. On the basis of the findings of the Expert College on Pathology, it was found that the examination of the swabs of the cervix was contrary to the Health Act prohibiting the conduct of cytopathological investigations by private parties. Of course, the most worrying fact is that today, even though it should have happened earlier, there is a legitimate question in the public about the quality of these investigations or their actual implementation. However, today's wish is being interpreted by the wrong Minister for Health. These things have been happening under the previous minister, and the consequences are borne by us or Minister Bručan or especially those women who have been involved in these investigations and are certainly in a totally unacceptable position. Therefore, these irregularities and irresponsible behaviours are said to be irregularities and this irresponsible behaviour is now being tolerated to Minister Bručan, and it is certainly unacceptable to see that the Minister has taken certain steps in this area and so on. Today, laboratories are run by professionally trained specialists, and education is being signed and made possible for the specialization of anatomic pathology with cytopathology, as well as a school for bristle transducers, and a laboratory at the Institute of Pathology of the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana has started to work, which will also allow the establishment of a reference laboratory. Well, it's a little strange to report to the minister something that was done before, even if this minister, thank God, is solving it today. Of course, in my opinion, the former Minister is also, in the background, a great deal of advertising and is also the main opponent of Minister Bručan and his health policy or conduct. However, Minister Bručan has just taken over from this minister the infamous operating tables, and these tables have been bought today. He received unscheduled compensatory schemes, unscheduled hospital payments, for a gift received by Minister Bručan, who was also given a deficit in a health treasury of 28.3 billion tolars, and Minister Bručan also received health laws of 15 years of age, which I think should be refreshed and improved a long time ago. The former Minister also forgot about the healthcare plan. Of course, the minister, the former, prepared the Law on artificial insemination with biomedical aid, for which we also carried out a referendum, which cost us about 600 million tolars. We also know the outcome of the referendum. This is a brief legacy of the former minister, which is why we have today's interpretation against Minister Bručan. Today, you are reading to the Minister of Health what you, unfortunately, have not been able to do. The fact is that you have not reduced the waiting lines, you have not performed the operating tables, but that I will not be a criminal, the policy of Mr Kebra, as Dr. Zoran Arnez says, has spent almost EUR 4 million to implement the health system. In hospitals, however, there were no concrete results given the amount of money spent. And here we can rightly ask ourselves where this money actually went. And if I say a few more words about these famous waiting lines that you haven't been able to reduce, today you're saying Minister Bručan is manipulating them. I believe that sometimes it's hard to look the truth in the eye, but the fact is that today the waiting lines have shrunk. Let's see, patients had been waiting for open-heart surgery for up to three years before. They've been waiting for about three months today. The surgery was two years ago, now six months ago. For the operation of gallstones, the waiting line was earlier more than two years, now less than a year. These are the evidence that appears, Mrs Cveta, you will probably have a replica and you will be able to comment, because you have already commented on this several times, if I am not mistaken. Now I'm speaking in such a way that I would beg you if you could let me tell you the whole story. In short, speaking of the fact that the waiting lines have not been reduced, it is a bit of a hair draw, but it is, in my opinion, that Minister Bručan's work in relation to the legacy that he has received is done properly and I am also sure that accessibility to health services will increase even though it has already been in these two years. In my view, interpellation against Minister Bručan is certainly unjustified at this time, and that is why I will not support it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Germich, you don't have much time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. It's only possible to explain again. The words of Minister Bručan: "Slovenia shows a high level of public health safety and even a wider range of rights than developed countries, we can speak proudly about the health system in Slovenia." Just proof. In the previous period, the government doubled the health budget from poor 9 billion to 18 billion [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u99	Thank you. Very dosed. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, I'm afraid you don't have time unless you're a motioner. Mr. Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! This interpretation, which is being discussed yesterday and today, will be further evidence that the coalition in Parliament will also defend any minister or minister for whom an interpolation will be proposed if this solution is not proposed by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. This will be further proof that it is the voting power, that the coalition is voting the opposition, but not that it listens to the arguments, that the facts are faced, that the advantages and weaknesses are carefully weighed, and on this basis the National Assembly will decide. This is not the case, so it is another coalition roller that will handle the opposition as before. Let me say a few words about the profession, maybe sometimes the so-called profession. I don't agree to separate professions on ours and yours. So all those who advise the government and the government are independent experts. All those who agree with the opposition's views, however, are still somewhat dependent on the opposition, on the parties who form the opposition in Parliament. This is certainly not an acceptable distinction between experts and non-experts. If I also touch on the supervision of the Medical Chamber. It's about professional supervision. If I consider the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Health and which has been carried out, I think 19 inspections in two years. So if I'm just thinking about professional supervision, it's been done for two years, and I think there are 90 controls. True, they were among individuals, concessionaires, doctor concessionaires and public institutions. The score's not good. However, it is frightening that 90 of these reviews have been carried out. And as I have already said on behalf of the parliamentary group, if doctors retire in time, they will not be able to wait for this control because it is not possible. Even if you sign a new concession contract from 15 to 50 years, you won't come if you don't take a step further in this area, so increase control. You've been predicting it for a while, more activity, but there's still no bigger activity. Medical homes, the role of health homes. Above all, it is important whether we view healthcare homes as institutions in which the primary level of health is taking place, or whether we view healthcare homes as buildings that normally stand in the middle of the city. If we view them as buildings, then nothing really happens and they are not in danger; because buildings cannot be taken away even if you transfer the competence to the country or to the new provinces. This, of course, reduces the possibility that these provinces will truly live because you are expanding the range of those mayors who, by transferring these powers to the provinces, will not agree. And so they won't agree with the content of the landscapes, which means that we'll get to the provinces even harder than we've thought about before. And if we are talking about health homes as institutions, as a central factor - as we then wrote in the National Health Programme for all until 2004, you were very disturbed - or by the institution of the activity, of course you could change that. The problem is that in this case we should adopt the National Health Programme for everything since 2004; however, this programme is not. And the important thing about awarding concessions is that by not obtaining new doctors on the public network, we simply exclude employees from public institutions among the private, concessionaires, the number remains the same. For a larger number of doctors, more will have to be done, not just to grant concessions. And that it's good doctors between private people and health homes, so if there's any need for change, we can figure out for a slightly worse doctor who gets good when they leave health homes, then there's something wrong. Competition between good doctors, you said. Of course, competition between good doctors is not a bad thing, it is a good thing, and we will also have to consider making competition between the less good ones. But the problem is that we try to share good and bad, especially on the basis of what their status is or how they are employed. It is not true that good doctors are only private and that they are bad in public institutions. Nor is it true that good doctors are in public institutions and are bad among individuals. I know a lot of private doctors, including Velenj, who are great doctors. I also know excellent doctors within the public health institution in Velenje. And another problem is in granting concessions, that this is a very simple saying, the wrong world, the upside-down world. If anyone had the authority to grant concessions, it would be a concession. At the primary level, the local community found the need to obtain an additional doctor on the public network and to therefore write down a concession, of course this would be the right procedure, but not as it is now, so that the doctor finds that he meets all the conditions that he is employed in a public institution and that he wants to become a private person. And because it meets all the conditions, it requires a concession. So it's not the right procedure. You yourself, Mr. Minister, have repeatedly announced changes. Now is the time for these changes. Half the term is over. Looking back won't be enough. It was very nice to hear how grateful the Korosci are for the hospital. Of course, the former and present governments are grateful for the good roads, for the armored ones, for the large number of homes for the elderly, of course they are grateful. I said the previous and present government. There are no major changes. Mr Minister, given what has been heard in these two days, the arguments speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u101	Mr. Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. In a bad minute, there won't be much to say. On the 45 pages of the interpolation, which we are considering yesterday and today, on the 13th page, under order number 1.9, the illegal operation of the pharmacy in Storrah is also reported to the minister. Since I come from this place alone, and because I deserve to know that this pharmacy in Storrah has been granted the status or status of a branch pharmacy, I wonder what the interpolators wanted to say by saying when this sin is essentially intended to impose upon a minister who has not even been asked or given any consent and was not aware of the case at all. When a pharmacy operates in a place within a public institution and the congregation leaves that public institution, this means that there is no more pharmacy or pharmacy in this place, which is part of a public institution. At this point in time, the law currently in force will produce information that will enable the congregation to grant a branch pharmacy or to sign a concession for the dispensation of a pharmacy. The Municipality of Store is based on the fact that it was not [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u103	Thank you. We concluded the debate on the list of applicants. They also have the floor of the minister and then the proposer. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. I have some things to answer, and then, of course, this debate would have to be concluded slowly. As regards the decision I have published regarding the Mutual and Pharmacy, I must say that the decision is perfectly legal and is based on the right legal basis. The Health and Health Insurance Act itself in Article 62, paragraph 7, and paragraph 62d. imposes the provisions on pharmacies whose data are required to be transmitted to insurance undertakings. In view of the non-transfer of the above data by pharmacies, although there is a perfectly clear legal obligation and a wider social interest, I called a meeting on Monday, where legal representatives of the Mutual and Pharmacy Chamber of Slovenia were also present. Following the meeting, conclusions were adopted in writing, which was also signed by Mrs Chufareva, President of the Chamber of Pharmacy. By signing the minutes, the pharmacies undertook to send mutual information to the insurance company, and the representative of the Pharmacy Chamber confirmed that the pharmacy would respect such an answer or a decision issued. I have confirmed other things about this in previous implementations, and somehow I would not be repeating it now, even on the protection of personal data and so on. And the other thing I have to answer is that there's evidence of helicopter regulation. I know the decision to buy a helicopter to control [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which, by no means, is able to provide emergency medical care. [[...]] This is a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 20.6.2002, which provides that the savings from the purchase of Falcone aircraft are intended to purchase a helicopter to control the state border for the purposes of the Ministry of the Interior. In this case, it is not a matter of buying an aircraft which could also carry out emergency medical care tasks, which is also evidenced by the fact that the Ministry of Health is not mentioned at all among the recipients of this Decision. Since 2003, helicopter rescue has been carried out as a pilot project involving the Ministry of Health, Transport, Defence and Home Affairs. A military helicopter was used to do this, but it was not deliberately equipped. The military helicopter for emergency medical care was tested in 2000, but was not purchased. By implementing the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its amendments and additions to the Regulation on the organisation, equipment and training for the protection, rescue and assistance adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in December 2005, the appropriate legal basis for the provision of helicopter rescue for the provision of emergency medical assistance was adopted. The tasks to be performed by the Slovenian Association Automotive Moto are set out in paragraph 27a of the second paragraph. Article of the Regulation, among other tasks, the provision of helicopter transport services to provide emergency medical assistance in the event of traffic accidents and the transport of patients to emergency health care or the transport of patients who are hospitalized, except for helicopter rescue in the mountains. The Regulation allows the same helicopters to carry out the primary or between patients. It has also been established that helicopters and crews with which the Automotive Union of Slovenia provides helicopter support in the provision of emergency medical assistance must comply with the standards applicable to rescue helicopters in the EU. Under that Regulation, the Ministry has already issued a regulation laying down the applicable European standards of organisational, technical and regulatory conditions for the provision of emergency medical assistance through helicopter transport. Decisions on the use of helicopters will also remain in the domain of competent doctors or health services in the future. And the question is, who is this AMZS? This is a association of societies, otherwise registered as a company that combines 85 automotive companies with 125,000 members. The main task of the company is to care for drivers, education, prevention, knowledge of technical achievements in the car industry. The AMC's helicopter rescue project is designed exactly as it did in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Spain, where, as we expect, the Automotive Clubs also operate helicopter assistance. Mr Anderlič, the AMC is not a share company, but the AMC has set up a company to provide a benefit to membership. As regards the very beginning of the procedure for the operation of this helicopter service, its introduction, and its amendments to the pilot work, I must say that this has not occurred because of the Ministry of Defence's failure to cooperate, but because of the agreement between ministers and those responsible for the regulation of protection and resolution. In this regard, all further measures have also been taken, including a government measure enabling this operation. Allow me, Commissioners and Members, at the end of the debate to take back some of the impressions that you have read to me here today and yesterday. First, it was a privatisation. Of course, I must make it clear once again that I am not conducting any wild privatisation, because all the procedures have been carried out in accordance with the legislation in force. And concessions have always been granted in accordance with applicable legislation. Concessionism is only one form of public-private partnership and there is no way of privatisation. Concessions were awarded according to clear criteria, in places where for poorer supplies, waiting periods, the entry of clean individuals into the public network. I must say, I would like to reiterate here at the conclusion that I am not in any way adhering to rapid privatisation or the introduction of privacy into Slovenian health care. On the contrary, I have always argued that the introduction of privacy must be carried out gradually, particularly in those places and parts where it is good for the population and, above all, for greater supplies and greater accessibility. Therefore, these allegations of some swift and planned wild privatisation in Slovenian health care are unfounded and, of course, I cannot accept them, nor can I take them as serious, let alone as real. I don't tear down health homes. This is also evident from my implementation in these last two days. Financial operations of healthcare homes are positive and stable. And there is never a shortage of health personnel anywhere, even a shortage of them; perhaps less at the level of health homes, but more of them in public health institutions at secondary level. A reliable healthcare home in the form that we see at the Ministry of Health acquires new functions: coordination, organizational prevention, emergency medical care and, of course, can act as an advocate of patients' rights and so on. In any case, we also want to regulate the functioning and establishment of primary health care. The current fragmented system, to be decided only by the municipalities, seems to us not only to us, but also to all those we have visited, to date less appropriate than in the future, when this part of health care could be managed by regions, each for its own area, as it has already been in various other countries in Europe, where Spain is the best example for this. The next information I would like to give is in relation to the long waiting periods. I must say that all the data we have published here all the time, but not only here, but also in response to interpolation, have always been valid and transparent. The data we have published here are not only the result of some of our surveys with directors, but mainly our cooperation and work in establishing the central waiting lists, as a result of this, and are also very important data for the realisation of waiting times in the future. We have provided additional funds for this activity, to shorten waiting periods. We're expanding the network of diagnostic and therapeutic centres. We're going to introduce national lists. [[Some of us are already]] and the criteria for classification on these lists. We have introduced incentives for health personnel, and it is precisely because of this process that waiting periods have been reduced. As far as the health system is concerned, I must say that we can see that the current stabilisation and the process of continuous improvement are under way. The good results shown in the European Union survey have now been improved. So we can look to the future peacefully and there is no way to talk about destabilizing the health system. The financial sustainability of the system is ensured, much different from the previous period for which this Government, this position, this coalition, had to provide quite a lot of money to enable it to correct the negative balance of the previous Government in the field of health, since the convergence programme had to provide as much as 28 billion tolars. We introduce and improve quality measurement in particular, as well as only quality. The accessibility and transparency of health services is significantly greater at this time. Last but not least, what is most important is that we can see that the satisfaction of citizens with the health system and the organisation of health care is very high in our country, in a very high percentage, and we can say that we are also among the countries that are highest in the European Union. Even recent polls show a rise in satisfaction with the health system in Slovenia. I think that all that I have said here is additional proof that our work at the Ministry has been good in these two years, that we have worked all the time to improve accessibility and quality of health in Slovenia, especially for the benefit of patients and insured people, and we have not forgotten those who implement this programme. Therefore, the findings in the direction of the Ministry of Doctors are completely wrong and shoot in the wrong direction. I repeat, and I also promise for the future, that in the future we will always focus on the benefits of patients and also implement a policy that will allow this. Dear Members and Members! All those who read the material and were present at the debate can be sure whether or not you could make sure that the impressions from the interpretation are unfounded, mostly demagogic and also misleading. In our health system, the bad side does not happen as in the interpolation in every way it wanted to appear. They are happening, problems such as all developed European countries have, but I must say that these problems are relatively small after the surveys, and we are trying to fix them as quickly as possible and, of course, resolve them as soon as possible. We are doing everything for the benefit of the patients and, of course, I am also aware of my responsibilities and options. For I am committed to caring for patients, not only as a minister, but also as a doctor who has worked with patients in the most exposed places in the health care sector for many years. Dear Members and honourable Members! I myself have accepted the role of managing the ministry with a clear aim to raise the level of health safety of citizens and to maintain or increase confidence in the Slovenian healthcare and insurance system, which we want to gradually build up through reform processes. To this end, as well as my associates, I am bound not only by the promise of an oath in this assembly at the time of the appointment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also by the coalition treaty and programme for which the voters who elected this Government voted. I am therefore committed to caring for patients, I repeat, as Minister and also as a doctor. In the hope that I convinced you to give me your support today, I thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u105	Thank you. The text is also given by the proposer. On behalf of the proposer, Mrs. Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You said earlier, the one in the ruling coalition that today's debate will not even give birth to a mouse. That's too bad. Too bad you're obviously going to make a decision based on political reasons. We are confident that we have given you enough warnings, enough cases, enough illegality, enough things from practice, manipulation of waiting periods to expect on your part yet more seriousness. We have warned and proved to you that the results of wild privatisation are extremely negative and concessions granted without a legal basis. We have warned you about the operation of the First Health Assistance, wild insurance in dispute, corruption, which directly causes people to pay for services they have already paid. We have warned you about the absence of system law and many other laws that are because they are not there to the detriment of patients. We have warned you, Minister, as well as your colleagues, that because of the non-acceptance and modification of the rules on the pricing of medicines, we are losing millions a day. We have warned you about a number of anomalies in the field of recording and management of waiting rows with specific cases and data from online cases and data. We have warned you about the disputed rental of a helicopter, the very last story, no invitation to tender and past the interests of the Slovenian Army and the Police. The damage that will cost us all more than 300 million a year. We drew your attention to violations relating to the protection of personal data in the field of pharmacy activities. We didn't get any answers to that today. We also drew your attention to customerism, which specifically exposes clientism to members of your professional bodies, including members of the SDS. We warned you about the wrong grades and promises you made two years ago when you promised to solve a number of problems with the magic wand. We warned you two years ago that you had promised an extraordinary meeting of the committee that the cytopathology would be resolved as soon as possible. After two years, there's no solution. In Slovenia we do not have a health care network, we do not have basic and basic laws on which health care would be based. And, of course, dear fellows, let me be clear and I'll tell you 15 more times. You've been in power for two years, you and your minister. Two years is the time, however, when it is necessary to show some results. We have found that in the area of health there are no results, no changes, but only by misleading one wants to show the situation differently than it really is. The waiting periods are shrinking and the Slovenian public is presented with data which do not hold, which is not confirmed by practice. If that's what it is, tell us. We have cited things from the Internet, things that happen in waiting rooms, obviously you haven't been there for a long time and you don't know the situation. And, of course, I must say that we are sure that we have done the right thing with the introduction of interpretation, because we have not actually talked about health in this Parliament in these two years. We haven't talked about health. And that is what will benefit today's debate, even if the Minister remains tomorrow. I hope and expect that, at least in this case, something will change, because it would be time for it to change. The judgment on whether we did the right thing or not will be given by citizens and citizens, patients and patients who have followed us and listened to us. I am convinced that with great interest, because health is a value and health is a value that each of us actually puts in the highest place. We are all sensitive here and, of course, such an area requires full engagement, not politics. There was no politics here in two days. We didn't want to talk about politics. We wanted to talk about the health situation on behalf of Slovenian patients and patients. About the problems that are here and, of course, for you it's all worth one pee. A mouse is about to be born. That's too bad. Too bad, buddy, if that's not gonna happen. The Minister showed more understanding than you Members did when, at least yesterday afternoon, he made a lot of promises. Too bad he hasn't done this before. That's why we wrote the interpolation and if the interpolation was good, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Then it was right at this point, because since September it has been very intense. [[...]] And I hope that, despite the fact that the interpolation, I already know, won't work, but we will change, and we will count that as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u107	Thank you. This concludes the debate on interpolation. Given that the voting time has not been set in advance, I propose that we suspend the session before the vote in 15 minutes. Do you agree with that? I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 2.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u108	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the continuation of the meeting of the National Assembly. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly that, following the debate on interpretation, the Minister of Health, mag. Andrey Brucan. I therefore put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrustworthy statement to the Minister of Health, mag. Andrea Brucana. I assume that it is an interest to explain my vote, so I am opening up applications for representatives of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the parliamentary group will vote, it is mag. The gendarmes have already announced. He announced that we have no, no party or other binding tasks, but we are voting in a way that we can judge by our own experiences and behaviour. We are not completely united in this, but I predict that we are largely against interpretation. Above all, because the debate also showed that it was actually a parade of two extremes, on the one hand perhaps an excessive measurement of our health system and its functioning, and on the other hand that the apology was uncritical to cities as regards the system. But what we're saying is that those of us who don't support interpolation, we're not in favour of disassociating health homes. We, too, are critical, given how much we know about the situation in our health care, in which neither Minister Bručan nor we entered the coalition yesterday and not two years ago. This is where some of the shoes that were inherited walk. This should also be borne in mind when we decide what the level of criticalness of the proposed interpolation is. The second thing to say is that we are not all in favour of uncritically granting concessions. And what kind of example would I give myself, I'll do it later, even the right or the right majority of concessions. Of course, it is not that all concessionaires are flawless, as not all those employed as doctors in public institutions. We also believe that it would not be right if we stopped this work halfway now, because the introduction of a potential new minister would probably not contribute to anything particularly dramatic new or better in a short time, so we do not support this interpretation at least most. We would also like to say that our attitude towards how quickly past weaknesses are addressed is critical and that we want to accelerate this pace of addressing past weaknesses. I believe that this process, yesterday and today, will also contribute to the ministry's work. But we absolutely reject the manic image, as if everything was once good and today is bad, as if in a horizontal line on one side everything is good and on the other everything is bad. And we are more pledging to think critically about our health situation and to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues! In Parliament in the last two years of this mandate, we have never actually talked deeply about health care. We talked here and there about what kind of marriage, nine of them were just, and they were very modest. And in this sense, it is certainly beneficial that we devote two days to a very critical and in-depth debate on health. We have instilled in it all kinds of irregularities, illegality, shortcomings, damage arising, many manipulations occurring in the field of health, and many facts that speak for the fact that the situation in the health segment is not good, is not in favour of Slovenian patients and patients. Despite the fact that, in view of the many debates also in the form of announced support, the Minister of Health will remain after today and after the interpretation, we are convinced that we have done something very good and useful for Slovenian patients and patients through interpretation. After today, I do not think it will be possible to work in the same way as Minister Bručan has done in the past two years. He'll have to work differently. And the public also heard a number of new assurances from his mouth, a number of new promises and we will follow them forward. I hope that this will be done by the President of the Government and that, given how Minister Bručan works, he will also consider whether he is the right person in the right place. We're sure it's not. We are convinced that another, a new minister, with new views, and in particular with a vision and strategy that this minister has not shown in two years, would do much good for Slovenian health care, which has not been only bad in the past, as shown by the foreign studies and analyses that have been done just after the transition to a new mandate. Therefore, we are convinced that it would be worth reconsidering or so on. We believe that this path, which the Minister is taking with his work in wild privatisation, is manipulating the public with data on the reduction of waiting periods that are not available and with a number of irrational moves that he has recently made, in recent days more than 300 million damage caused by the rental of helicopters [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, it requires a different course of action.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Respectable. Members and Members of the Social Democrats were not co-signers of the interpretation. However, at the same time or one day earlier, we asked the Minister 11 written descriptive questions to which we received the answers. Before the interpolation began, we estimated that these answers were flawed. That the answers to the interpolation and the debate that took place these two days and we have somehow tried to exchange the arguments of those who are convinced that something should be changed in this system, and those who are determined that everything should be preserved in the old way, we have not heard any argument to change our minds. We therefore insist that we vote in favour of the minister's non-trust. Of course, we want to do this because we know that the mistruster will not succeed, that the minister will remain in the future, and that from all of these discussions he will only be aware of our concerns, concerns and perhaps some of our proposals or warnings in his further work. We don't think there were any arguments that would deny the charges of interpolation. It is clear that there is still a plan to tear up non-profit public health, namely health homes and hospitals. In his previous actions, the Minister has shown that his view of dialogue is questionable and that dialogue between the social partners and the minister is questionable. We also assess that it still does not understand the public interest in health and not its role in protecting it. It is not concerned about the legal functioning of the award of concessions and the application of the rules on criteria for the pricing of medicinal products. So there's a lot of arguments for us to vote for an untrustworthy person. Mr Minister, it is up to you to hear something from what you read in the interpretation, in the debate, perhaps to take into account in your work in the next period. Our decision by the Social Democrats' Group to vote in favour of the non-trust is unanimous.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u114	Thank you. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Please all those who wish to explain your voice to sign up. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much again. I will vote against this interpretation for reasons that I will briefly state. I have about 15 years of work in the field of health care, and I have so much experience, and I certainly don't judge those who wouldn't know anything about it. I've also awarded eight concessions, and today I'm on what I've been doing in the past years, so I'm one of those mayors who were previously evolutionary, if they can't work. In my case, I'm going to point out in many of the above-mentioned and over-potential negative cases any other good. In my case, it's always been about the mayor, the concessionaire and the health center working together. It has never happened that we should put up with this, and it has also occurred that I have refused any role for concession when hearing the arguments of the healthcare home. There's never been a problem with duty. However, we have gained that the concessionaires have purchased the facilities to support them themselves, where they do not pay the rent, and that they also cooperate with those who have stayed in the public office and we have about half of them and half of them. We also have cases that can tell us that they're good. In 12 years not earlier than the chief, not now as mayor of one written comment in the sense that something was so radically bad that it was necessary to act. That is why I think there is a good case to be said, knowing that it is not really up to the Minister to decide whether or not it is up to the municipal policy and the mayor. What I'd like to say is that everything that has now shaken on concessionaires is a very bad service to concessionaires, unfair to their work. And so bad are those doctors who were in the institution yesterday, now that they're concessionaires, they're not. I think we should be more right about them, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u116	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem is giving up. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u117	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This debate took a long time. I'm not gonna repeat everything that's been said. Of course, there's still those seven of our interpolation points, but I would have touched what happened then in all those 16 hours. Mr. Minister refused to interpret us with one sentence, and then he apologized, excused, explained, all this matter first 30 minutes and then 240 minutes. Very many words for what could be rejected with one sentence. But he was only talking about what he liked very, very much. What he didn't like, he didn't answer. Maybe he smiled a little, showed his teeth, nodded, but he didn't answer. He did not answer the questions presented to him by Mr Školč. He did not respond with one word to what Mr Franz Žnidaršič had told him. And to a lot of what was, of course, the Minister's interpretation, not the interpretation of health, health, doctors, concessionaires. It was about interpolating the minister who is leading the matter into an uncontrollable confusion, mainly in connection with concessions. It is not about being bad or being wild, illegal, that this matter has gone wild and there is no longer any control over how public money is poured into private pockets, which is very clear in health homes, but what is happening in private is very poor. Of course, he did not respond to what he was told about. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will open a proposal for the discharge of the Minister. Mr. Minister, you were also a minister in the Bajuk government. The people who were working with you at the time said after the appointment of the current government: "Mr. Bručan will make sure that as much public money goes into private pockets as possible." And we've been talking about this for two days, and we're experiencing this. It's a story of helicopters, it's a story of concessions, it's a story of operating tables, etc. For the operating tables, when you opened the tenders, you already had concrete bases for the tables of a particular manufacturer, etc. However, at the end of the line under all of this, I was drawn by your coalition and housing colleague, who said: "If I did not have a family, I would leave this country because of the situation that we are hearing here yesterday and today." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. In view of the two - day incantation of the rulings of this national council that we are living in a situation known from the Bible as a pre - paradise area, where honey and milk begin to flow, it is difficult to opportunate. It is also difficult for the Minister and advocates of brilliant changes in the interests of people in health over the past two years to oppose and opportunise. And the hardest thing is, if the minister himself repeats from his speech for two days that everything is fabricated in interpretation, which is not fictional, he does not. That's a typical argument, I'll use another hard word, so-called self-reliants. Because I'm not guilty of anything and responsible, I'm a good and best minister. And just a few more on the subject of concessions. If, as we are now talking about the restructuring of the health system, we talk and people go to the restructuring of the economy and use the formula for granting concessions and criteria there, then I guarantee you that today unemployment in Slovenia would be much smaller. If all those employees who were in companies, in particular state-owned persons who were just prior to bankruptcy, were to be granted concessions under these conditions in order to continue the activity, they would not be able to agree to the employment agency today. This is the unequal position of people before the law and before the constitution. I will therefore vote in favour of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u122	Thank you. Is there any other interest in explaining the voice in his own name? I invite everyone you want to explain your voice to sign up. Mr. Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u123	Thank you, President. As colleagues and colleagues, I will join myself in interpolation or in calling for resignation and resolution. In my performance yesterday, accompanied by relatively few coalition members, I spoke about how the Minister is actually ignoring the need of many Slovenes who need protection as patients, and he did not realize this with a minimum of satisfactory response. I reminded him that two years ago he had been on "hearing" and promised to set up the Ombudsman's Institute. I reminded him that 14 months ago his secretary had also promised this in 2005 that the Minister had promised this in one of the written texts in 2005. Today, at the end of 2006, we are not hearing the spirit or hearing of this law, which many patients so bloodyly expect. In fact, the Minister himself was very uncritical of all comments, none confirmed, none attracted, was uncritical of these perceptions or was not self-critical. That is why I believe that such a minister does not enjoy the trust of all of us who expect him to have a positive attitude. In fact, the Minister himself agreed in some way when he did not reject the words of the President of the Medical Chamber, Mr Pegan, who himself stated that there would probably be a surplus of doctors with concessions, which would mean the breakdown of health homes. The Minister did not reject this, so I reject his arguments and attach to the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. After two days, anyone could really have convinced himself that what is evident to the current minister could indeed be a legitimate interpretation against a minister in any of the previous governments. That the current minister is very successful in solving these problems. And from this, everyone could draw the lesson: that the goal of the applicants is manifest, and their motive is simple, envy, because the current minister is doing well, for which they are once in vain and wrong, on the wrong way, they have tried, and have been completely unsuccessful in doing so. So we spent two days at this interpellation confirming the old rule: that in Slovenia, unfortunately, there is much too much envy that we can say at home if envy were burning and we could smoke it in thermoelectric power plants, we could export energy across Europe. At least as far as we're concerned, as far as I'm concerned, I'm sure I'll support the current minister. I just want everything he pursues to go even faster and more successfully than ever. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The LDS has submitted seven points of contentious action by Minister Bručan. The eighth point of the dispute was written by Minister Šturm. This eighth point is also the one for which, without bad news, I myself will vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister. This 8th point didn't come about four years ago either, but it did come about this month. In this 8th point, we are talking about the fact that the Minister, by his decision, made one privileged insurance company against others and, on the other hand, made an unacceptable database of personal data without having a basis in the law. He violated the Personal Data Protection Act, violated the European Directive in this area and violated a direct constitutional provision on the protection of personal data. This would be entirely enough in every democratic country to ask themselves in terms of the continuation of the ministry. He can't get away with phoning out his lawyers who he trusted. Apparently, his lawyers gave him the wrong advice, and he has to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u128	Thank you. Lady Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u129	The Minister has not convinced me, and I will therefore support the interpolation and the proposal for a discharge. On the contrary, without being convinced by the Minister, I am convinced that the interpretation we have submitted is entirely justified, because the Minister is doing damage to the Slovenian health system, the Minister is doing harm to health, and the Minister is not least doing harm to doctors, except to some who are on the selected list on his chosen list. The Minister of Wildlife privatises health care and at the same time the Minister does not take care of economically eligible investments. We have already heard that it is the duty of the Minister to put as much money in private pockets as possible, and therefore it is no wonder that he decides to make a six times more expensive solution than in the case of helicopters, even without proper procedures, without an invitation to tender, and therefore it is no wonder that concessions are awarded without rules, but according to their likeness, according to political affiliation and all but the professional criteria. The health system has been building for a long time. It was also built by previous generations. And because of the responsibility of previous generations, we must not now allow them to be savagely privatized in a very short time, to be dismantled by the health system in such a way that the disease can only be afforded by the rich enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll support the Secretary's discharge. The Minister, in a three-and-a-half-hour, almost four-hour performance, did not convince me with the answer, not with regard to the relationship between public and private health and the policy in this area, which I believe is harmful and bad, and of course he did not convince me in the debate on waiting periods. One is in waiting periods, what the minister says, the other is what's really going on. I have to say that I just got it from one, apparently viewers today, to my email address and a photograph that I got late, I can't reproduce it, and on this photo from one healthcare home it says, waiting time in the dental infirmary, for the start of adult treatment for 100 days, prosthetics 4278 days, self-paid outpatients as agreed. This is a situation that is bad, catastrophic and against it I am protesting and voting for resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I certainly will not support the proposal for interpolation, because I assess the work of Minister Bručan, not just me, but also many patients, for very good and there is no reason for us to think of his discharge in any way. During these two days we were able to listen to a whole lot of unfounded claims, misleadings, without any evidence, but Minister Bručan in his responses responded to all the arguments and showed very clearly that the health system in Slovenia is good. And it's only right that our patients know that. However, I agree that there is also a wide range of individual cases that are not an example of our system, but there is no ideal system anywhere. And that is why it is possible to have the only good part of the debate in the National Assembly, so that patients can see that we do not care about how this system is going on and how it is on both our Members and on the Minister, it is certainly an opportunity for us to work together to contribute to the search for systemic solutions on a case-by-case basis. Any patient who has any irregularity shall have the opportunity, either to the Minister or to the Member or to anyone responsible, to point out this, and we shall all contribute to the systematic resolution of these matters. As I said, I will not support the interpretation, and I regard the work of Minister Bručan as very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u134	Thank you. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Gantar? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u135	I'm correcting data, waiting at home for prosthetics is 1,278 days, not 4,000, which is still a catastrophic result. I couldn't get a good look at this before, and I'm fixing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-13-SDZ4-Izredna-25.ana.u136	We're voting. Members 78 and Members were present, with 35 votes against 43. (For the vote was 35.)(against 43.) I'm guessing the Minister of Health of Mags. Andre Brucan was not voted untrustworthy. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby conclude the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, another notice. In 15 minutes, this is the beginning of the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons at Tomšičeva 5. Thank you very much.
