ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. I'm asking you to calm down again. Thank you. I begin the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 20 and the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, only Bevk from 16:00 on, mag. Franz Capuder by 1:00 p.m., Miran Jerič, Josef Jerovšek, Aurelio Juri, Milan Petek, Franz Pukšič and Joseph Školč. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, Minister of Finance, Dr Andrei Bajuk, and other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and received by reference to the meeting on 8 November 2006. I have not received a proposal for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. The vote is under way. There are 47 Members present and 44 voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving to five. Period of the day - that's a second defensively proposed bill on community funding. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Minister, Dr. Ivan Žagar, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the auditorium, too. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to stress, before today's second reading of the proposal for a Community Financing Act, that the aim of the new law is to provide citizens with more equal opportunities to meet their common needs and interests in the municipalities. This objective can only be achieved by ensuring the proportionality of the tasks of municipalities with funding sources, greater financial autonomy of municipalities in the acquisition and use of funds and the development objectives of the country in a consistent way of co-financing development projects. The objectives set are achieved by the provision of the law in accordance with Article 9 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which contains the principles of municipal financing. The proportionality of the tasks of municipalities with funding sources is fully ensured in the area of financing tasks entrusted to municipalities by laws and obliged to carry out them. The system of decentralisation of public income from income and other taxes provides municipalities with a further stable source of funding, consistent with the evolution of the costs of their duties. It should be noted, however, that this share is also significantly increased by changing the way in which the income of municipalities is allocated from the share of the income. The appropriate usage of the municipality, which is financed from these sources, is determined by the average, which is the average cost per capita in the country. An agreement between the representative associations of municipalities and the Government on the possible new tasks of the municipalities during the transitional period and on the amount of the average shall be established in the procedure of fixing the average for each financial year. The financial autonomy of the municipalities shall be expressed in their autonomy to determine and collect revenue and autonomy in deciding on the use of the municipal budget. Independence shall be ensured in determining and collecting revenue from the compensation for the use of building land, municipal self-contributions, prices for public services and other sources of financing in which the system of financing the appropriate use of municipalities is without prejudice. The law provides for the full financial autonomy of municipalities in the financing of those tasks, programmes and projects which they autonomously lay down by their rules and decisions. Independence in deciding on the use of municipal budget funds is also ensured in financing the appropriate spending of municipalities. The system of determining appropriate spending shall not predetermine the share of the financing of individual tasks and shall not prejudice the right of the municipality to decide independently on the financing of tasks under its jurisdiction. New arrangements for co-financing tasks, programmes and investments in municipalities have also put in place measures to promote more coherent development aimed at ensuring equal conditions for meeting the common needs of the population, regardless of the municipality in which they reside, and are in line with the development objectives of the country. This underlines the responsibility of the Government and the ministries, each in its field of work. The introduction of the provinces is subject to two transitional provisions of the law. This is the financing of public institutions in the area of culture, the founders of which are the municipalities that will continue to be implemented from the State budget, until the date when they start working in the province and the municipalities for most of these institutions will have the opportunity to co-finance by the provinces. The co-financing of the rights of a family assistant provided for by the Social Protection Act has also been extended by the proposal for a law for all years until the decision on the right of a family assistant, together with the provision of funds, has become the jurisdiction of the provinces. Your Honor! I believe that the updated text of the articles of the draft law, which was drawn up in the second reading of the draft law in the home labour body, is fully in line with the objectives and purpose of the law, so I suggest that you also support the amended proposal of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Please excuse me, Chairman of the Committee. [[...]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jazbec, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 13th emergency meeting on 14.11.2006, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the Proposal for a Law on Community Financing submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. Meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of the Government as proponents of the law, the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, Šempeter-Vrtojba, Trzin, Idrija, Krško and the municipalities of Maribor, Ljubljana and Koper and the coastal self-government communities of Italian nationality. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The opinion highlighted, inter alia, the extent to which the proposed solutions implement the constitutional principle on self-financing of municipalities from their own resources, as set out in the European Charter on Local Self-Government. The legislative and legal service has also made specific comments on the proposal for a law. In its opinion, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia noted that the transition to a new system of funding for municipalities constitutes progress in the implementation of the principles of local self-government, as the solutions proposed provide municipalities with adequate financial resources and their self-sustainment of funding with tasks and greater financial autonomy and a lower dependence on the resources of the municipalities on the state budget and thus a greater number of municipalities which are self-financing. The Council of State also made specific comments to the individual articles of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following qualified candidates have submitted to the draft law: Members' Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia on 6, 13, 16, 24, 40 and 43, Members' Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the People's Republic of Slovenia on 2, 8, 14 and 30, and Article 3, Members' Group of the Social Democrats on 10, 16, 39.a, 40, 44th and 46th, Member of the Dušan Kumer on new 44th a.a., Member of Samo Bevk on 43rd and 44th and Ambassador Vila Rezman on 2nd. In addition to the introductory explanation of the articles under the second reading of the proposal, the representative of the proposer, the Minister without a licence in charge of the field of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar, initially stressed that in the past period, in particular in the last term of the National Assembly, the municipalities had obtained a number of tasks without adequate financial resources. The government has therefore drawn up a proposal for a law aimed at the financial rehabilitation of municipalities. In its opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service referred in the introduction to the question raised by the Legal and Legislative Service, whether the content of the proposed solutions in the law is an appropriate basis for the financial autonomy of the municipalities, as provided for in the Constitution. However, the representative of the Slovenian Council of State Marjan Maucec considered that they should take account of the key comments from the opinion of the Council of State and amend or supplement the individual articles of the bill. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, Tone Peršak, stressed that the current Law on the financing of municipalities in this area was not adequately regulated, nor were the solutions in the new law, which reduces the autonomy of municipalities in the financial field. Given that the new law is to enter into force on 1 January 2007, it is not yet known to the municipalities how current revenue should be presented in the municipal budget and how they should prepare proposals for municipal budgets for the following year. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee went on to discuss the articles of the bill to which amendments had been tabled. The debate also reflected opinions based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to raise, from a constitutional point of view, a question or question as to the extent to which the proposed solutions are implementing the constitutional principle of self-financing of municipalities. The Committee adopted amendments by Ambassador William Rezman to Article 2, amendments to the SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u5	Mr. Jazbec, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u6	on Articles 2, 8, 14 and 30, the amendments of the LDS MPs to Articles 6, 13, 16, 24, 40 and 43 have not been adopted, nor have the amendments adopted at 10, 16 [[..]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Mr. Jazbec, I'd like you to finish. Thank you. Since the 21st meeting held the first reading of the bill, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the two amendments. The first is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the second amendment is the amendment of the SDS, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups, which you will get on the bench. Until you get it on the bench, let me read it. It reads as follows: "In the second paragraph of Article 8, the point is deleted at the end of paragraph and the text is added: "as their own funding sources." [[...]] Given that you have already received the amendment from the LDS Group of Members, we can begin the debate. I'm opening an application for discussion. Please, the application is in progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have tabled an amendment to Article 8 in the LDS. With this amendment, we are trying, at least in part, to remedy what has happened in our view very badly in the debate and also in adopting amendments on the home working body when we proposed the amendment and the addition of Article 8. However, we believe that this amendment, together with the amendment that we are now awaiting, is likely to at least partially improve and facilitate the position of individual municipalities, in particular those who, as they will have to negotiate, negotiate with the Government, make it easier to defend their positions and position. Of course, we believe that what is happening to the law is extremely bad, especially in the part where so-called own tax resources in Slovenia are significantly reduced. The international comparison of own tax resources in Slovenia with other EU Member States shows that we already had a sub-average share of our own tax resources in Slovenia. The latest EU comparison shows that in Slovenia we had about 7-8% of all tax sources at the level of municipalities. These were independent sources. With these resources, the congregations had their own resources and, of course, decided on them. This is an integral part of the so-called fiscal decentralism advocated by the EU as a whole. This proportion was approximately 7 to 8%. In the EU, the average share was between 10 and 11%, both in the EU 25 and in the so-called EU 15. It is interesting that all neighbouring EU Member States, including Italy, have around 15%, Austria, which has 11%, including Hungary, which has more than 10%, already has a significantly higher share of tax resources in all tax sources at the local community level. What are we doing with this law, and also with this article, article 8, which speaks of apostate sources? We virtually eliminate tax resources as a single source of funding for municipalities and the foundations on which municipalities, mayors, municipal councils and city councils decide independently which development projects will be decided, which development projects will be financed and what will be the priorities in individual municipalities. Simply with these derogated resources with Article 8 in Slovenia, financial compensation, which you are so highly critical of and, of course, to a certain extent also justified, we increase to an unlimited extent. Slovenia will have the lowest share of tax resources in the EU at the municipality level, and the share of revenue from financial transfers in all revenue will now increase to almost 70%, as the resources withdrawn are nothing more than financial balancing. This is about first collecting or first registering tax revenues at the central state level and then, by means of a trick, as it is said, here is essentially a tax derogation over the average and principal tax formula, which returns it back to the municipalities. And that is, in other words, said that the municipalities are subject to financial alignment, and that is, for all congregations, regardless of what the congregation is like, what developmental problems and potentials it has. Of course, we are convinced that this is extremely, extremely bad and that this will significantly exacerbate the motivation of the municipalities - we have listened to this last time to a number of mayors, representatives of the municipalities - for development, in particular in the part where the speech is and so far has been possible with development projects to increase the shares of their own tax resources and therefore the mayors and municipalities have been fully motivated. Today, we are witnessing here a presentation of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities with the argument that this Law on the Financing of Municipalities will significantly increase the funding of municipalities and that it is therefore in itself a good one. Of course, we do not object to the increase in funds to the congregations. Of course, we are in favour of increasing that we are also increasing to those municipalities, and especially to those municipalities that are in a more depressive situation, for which it is reasonable for them, even through financial compensation, if you want, and if this is better heard, even through a decommissioned resource, a greater volume of financial resources. However, not at the expense of regional centres, not at the expense of Slovenian cities, nor at the expense of the Slovenian capital. What happened? At first, we witnessed a change in the Income Act. In this National Assembly we passed the Act on Income, which took over all Slovene municipalities, to all Slovene municipalities in Slovenia 14 billion according to the previous law. According to the previous system, municipalities received 35% of their income. With a change, we have taken 14 billion of them, and we have now added 9 billion more to it, which we take from the most developed municipalities, which together amounts to 23 billion increases, which in fact does not happen to be such an increase. If we look at the congregation balance sheets, we also have a budget discussion today, and you will look at it, then you will see that the amount of funding for the municipalities in the nominal amount in the budget that was sent to the National Assembly increases by 13 billion in the collection balance sheets. Of course, the minister responsible for this area waves with his hand and nods because it is not in his account and does not go into the concept that is explained here before us. But he does not wave and laugh when we talk about taking 8.5 billion in Ljubljana's budget. In recent years, Ljubljana has around 16 billion Slovenian Tolar assets on its investment side. Today we will take Ljubljana 8 billion, today we will take from Ljubljana 32 to 35 billion Slovenian tolars of development funds. The Minister responds and has also responded to the parental committee that they will be able to deal with this on the basis of the Main City Act, how much of this Ljubljana will be able to get back. Where is fiscal decentralism, where is independence, if you want, the capital, where is the autonomy of those who have been given a mandate in Ljubljana to run Ljubljana independently, to carry out some very important development projects in many areas? Nowhere. For 34 billion, this autonomy is declining. For 34 billion, they are asked to "go and deal with the Prime Minister, perhaps you will get some of it back". I believe that this has nothing to do with the logical and consistent financing of municipalities, no relation to fiscal decentralism, but that it has a primary interest, with the aim that, if possible, municipalities should be politically subordinated, municipalities and mayors should be placed in office and in a position to be dependent on what the Government will think, what individual ministers will also intend and think in individual development projects. Those who will be able to agree on easier and more open paths to individual ministers and to the government may find it easier to compensate, part of the funds they are taking today. That is why we have proposed on the home committee that we should keep this formula and also this system, which you have proposed to maintain 35% of the income for all municipalities in our own tax resources. What would that mean? This would mean nothing more than that some of the biggest Slovenian regional centres would retain at least some of what they had so far. If they had kept 35% of their income, they would still have lost more regional centres due to a change in income, because the whole amount of income has changed, 35% of their income would still be lower, but their loss of income, in particular the development revenues under this law, would have decreased by about 50%. That's what we've been basing, that's what we've argued, we've been begging. Unfortunately, with the exception of some individuals, including coalition parties, I must say, there was no chance of hearing about this either. This proposal of ours has been rejected, has been voted down and you are moving on this path. This means, take one, give it to others and leave some of the development problems behind, perhaps because you do not like individual congregations and cities politically. We have repeatedly said that this is part of anti-urban policy in Slovenia, a policy that is strongly directed towards regional centres, strongly directed towards cities and will not end well. Finally, I would like to point out that we have already heard the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the parental committee, which pointed to the possible constitutional contention of such solutions. Some local communities in Slovenia are being deprived of the autonomy and powers conferred on them by the Constitution by these solutions. So to me, I must say, it would not be surprising if some congregations were to trigger a constitutional conflict. And I think it's extremely bad and it's unnecessary. If we had at least a little more listening, we could, with some additions, improve the system with some amendments. They wouldn't take anything from less developed congregations. They wouldn't take anything! But we would give back some of the resources that are now being redistributed and would eventually come to significantly better solutions. We don't want anything else in this marriage than a little better solution than they are, although we think they're extremely bad and in fact they're very disappointed with the conclusions we've come up with. In recent years, because of the fragmentation of municipalities, the fact that we have major developmental differences between different municipalities has exacerbated the problems of financing Slovenian municipalities. Now we have a chance to make this correction. And I would expect, according to the findings, to go in the right direction to improve the previous system. And that would be possible. It would be possible to increase independent fiscal resources by providing additional funds for less developed municipalities. Even literature on this subject exists, a whole lot of professional literature that we can read together, concrete calculations, and so forth. But none of it was. We've reached this formula in Article 8, and now I'm returning to it, a decommissioned resource. It's nothing more than a trick to say, "Financing isn't a financial settlement, but it's a waste of resources." This material will not lead anywhere. Not economically, not socially, not politically, not developmentally. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I suggest you support this amendment. We will also listen very closely to the next amendment, which speaks of the independence of these resources. As it is said, even if these two amendments are now adopted, they are still adopted in the context of the 8th point, which speaks of deleted sources. This means that they will not, in their essence, eliminate the fundamental weaknesses of this law, which is that it substantially increases financial compensation and reduces the autonomy of individual congregations. However, they will probably make it much easier, and I hope that they will significantly facilitate the negotiations of those municipalities which, after the adoption of this law, will be in the most difficult situation to achieve something more in these negotiations and in the agreements to which it refers. Finally, if you would like to hear at least part of our arguments, you will accept at least one amendment from all the amendments we have tabled. Along with the next one, this may make the situation less difficult than it would have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Hello, too, Minister! It is also clear from this amendment of the coalition parties SDS, SLS and DeSUS, which we have just received on the table, that the problem of showing their own resources in the law. The diction itself, which adds something to the point, adds that this is considered to be their own source of funding, that all that the State by the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, as it says, resigns to the municipalities by adding that it is their own source of funding, cannot be convinced. This is a mere blurring of the situation, although I welcome the fact that, in some way, it is also a search for a solution out of the shame that has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion, where it has clearly written that it has doubts as to whether this respects the constitutional principle of self-financing of municipalities and whether the European Charter on Local Self-Government is respected. Perhaps this trick will be sufficient for a complaint or a complaint before the Constitutional Court. Surely, however, it will be difficult in a substantive sense to convince all of us, at least me, that what the Minister said in his introduction is true - that independence in determining and collecting the revenue of the municipalities is increasing. Yes, my dears, what does this law do to increase the autonomy of the congregations in collecting and determining revenue?Oh, my God! Who here today hopes to say to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, will they really think that the municipalities have some autonomy and that what they decide about taxes?Oh, my God! Except for taxes on vessels, where I think that this is one marginal in Slovenia, in one way or another, they are all reported elsewhere, then in the transport of real estate, in the compensation for building land, indeed, the only tax decided entirely and independently by the municipality. And, of course, what will remain of its own resources, what would be called the primary financial source, the gains from gambling that are somehow in the air. With these real primary own resources, to say that independence in determining and collecting taxes for the income of the municipalities increases, I think, is a farce. I think that this is a farce and a lien, because the fact is that we are introducing state funding, directly state-owned, could even say that we are financing municipalities through certain procedures, and we do not have a specific tax source and a stable tax source intended to finance municipalities. From now on, this will be decided annually by the National Assembly by the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget, which tax resources, how much and how much the State will give. If that increases autonomy, my dears, no! Even if you give 5,000 billion tolars at this time more funds for municipalities, it is not on the other hand an increase in autonomy. For this source is unstable, this mode of funding is arbitrary, depending on us who will sit here, and depends primarily on, in my opinion, even on each time executive power. In this sense, in the long run, it is certainly an important step back in terms of the autonomy and autonomy of the congregations. The president of the Committee on Local Self-Government stated in the report that the Committee had found that more municipalities would be formed which were self-financing. None of them are self-financing through this new system anymore! None at all. They're all in the formula, waiting for the state budget, and getting a certain amount of money out of it. What is this formula, and what do I always claim to be a blur? The formula for appropriate consumption is changed. It changes to severe damage to urban areas or urban communities and to the environment with former administrative units or currently administrative units. In this way, this law is highly anti-urban and, if you will allow it, even indeveloped. Why indeveloped? I think it is not and will not be the development of individual future regions, which in practice may even exist in some way in our minds if they are not strong regional centres in these regions. There are no regional development centres. These are the driving forces in a particular environment. The fact is that through the appropriate consumption formula, the coefficient or correction criterion for calculating the appropriate consumption for all municipalities is being reduced. This coefficient is declining for all the municipalities. Specifically in Celje from 0.99 to 0.85; Koper from 1.01 to 0.89; Ljubljana from 0.89 to 0.83; Maribor from 0.98 to 0.93, etc. On average, from 1.1 to 0.88. And more. The differences that are said to be shrinking now are actually increasing. Differences are increasing because the coefficient at the moment and thus the method of funding was the difference between a minimum of 0,90 and a maximum of 1,99. The new coefficient is now the smallest in Ljubljana 0.83 and the highest in Solčava 2.3. Thus, from the previous 2.1 differences increase to 2.8. It is difficult to explain with these data who thinks that there is no increase in the difference between not being taken in the urban environment and not having all the financial exercise that we have been doing lately, that there is no fraud at this point in time, which will lead to a substantial reduction in resources in the final stage and in the long run. If you don't mind, I think there's something we need to say about the main place in this room. There are 260 thousand inhabitants in the capital. In the municipalities I have just talked about, there are about 800,000 inhabitants. And we are not talking about such a small part of Slovenia that it would be negligible. Very quickly, given that it is clear and we all know that Ljubljanans will be taken through this new formula of funds of about 8.5 billion tolars. Now at the board meeting, the minister said it would only be four. I don't understand anything anymore, from where 4, from where 8, from where 0. In fact, it is impossible to recalculate anything for your own needs and determine the actual situation. But if it is true, according to our calculations, this is even more and it is almost 9 billion according to our calculations, then Ljubljana will give more for the cake that all municipalities will now distribute, than the state budget, which will give a modest little less than 4 billion additional funds. So what all municipalities will recover at this time after the Ministry's calculations, I don't believe those calculations, they're not accurate, there's no real data, there's no real numbers, but above all, there's an increase, Mr. Minister, the amount that the municipalities see in the end on this account that it's determined how much of their own revenue they have to earn. Those amounts, however, are all significantly higher than they are at this moment in fact the income of the congregations. And once again, Ljubljana, which will lose about 35,36 billion dollars in exclusively investment money in four years, will give to all other municipalities in Slovenia more than you have intended and found, after everything we have been able to figure out so far, but it can still be hidden, I hope, let us say, we can't find, like you found or planned in the budget, which means that the money has moved from somewhere else. This also means some other thought. Whether Ljubljana and Maribor and similar centres, such as Celje, Koper, will even compete with centres such as Trst, Beljak, Gradec, etc. These are cities with very self-sustaining and very stable finances. How to plan on doing business in a city where you have 8 billion today and you don't have them tomorrow is impossible. And last but not least, Your Honor, I personally think that this is a punishment for citizens and citizens of Ljubljana who have not chosen the right new mayor in the elections. And I don't think that's the way we take this law. It is also very unusual that there were elections during which we discussed this marriage. People were involved in the campaign, and no one had time to deal with this law, but it did significantly interfere with the funding of the congregations. And for one more moment, allow me to warn you. We have repeatedly said that the law on the financing of municipalities is the one that causes constant appetites after the fragmentation of municipalities in Slovenia. This law has not changed that. This law will encourage further fragmentation and the basic one, most of which we have talked about here in the National Assembly, and we all agree that a formula for funding should be changed, which will be less stimulating, even though we have not regulated these things, especially not entirely. Partly yes, partly yes. However, there is no way that these appetites can be completely ended. And also about investments, that's what I was talking about on the board. And this part is clearly, I'll say, unfortunately ready. Investments co-financed by a co-financed state at local community level, such as the Ministry of Education, kindergartens, the Ministry of the Environment and the Space for Municipal Investment, will be fully within the hands and powers of each minister. He himself will accept the criteria, he will accept the criteria, he will lead matters himself, he will determine which projects in Slovenia are even on the list of development projects. This means the full and complete dependence of the municipalities on the individual minister, his good will, abritrating. Finally, the legislative and legal service which clearly stated that the law should provide clear and predictable criteria for a more detailed sub-legislative arrangement for the allocation of funds for co-financing of municipal investments. Of course there's no such amendment and no one's given it. Because it wants to fish in the mud, the municipalities want to, I will say, win the last independent fort, these are the Slovenian municipalities, and submit them to the Government, running the coalition and, of course, to the individual minister, so that we will also win this fort in the field of local self-government and make it completely dependent, subordinate, inseparable, grateful for every tolar that will fall from the country, in a way that can also cause thought and doubt, whether it will always be made on the basis of criteria that are not yet to be adapted, but not some criteria that will be appropriate for all the environment, regardless of what colors the mayor or the majority of the municipal world will be equal, equivalent, equal and correct for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? I'm opening the application. Mr. Secretary, you've raised your hand. Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment to the Law on the financing of municipalities. The essence of this change is, in my view, greater solidarity. This must be repeated several times. If we all advocate for regionally equitable development of Slovenia some solidarity funds somewhere, perhaps up to 10%, there should not be a major problem for those urban environments, the developmental progressive environments that derive enormously from, for an incomprehensible reason, the trend that is still in Slovenia, that all economic operators, all institutions should be in these developed urban environments, not to say in Ljubljana. Why can't you come, I don't know, 20 kilometers from the urban environment and have an institute? Why isn't it possible to build a technology park on a perimeter? It is more enjoyable to work, to develop, to think, to choose intellectual services. No, all this is still a trend in Slovenia that it is in the centres. These centers are getting bigger and bigger. A decade ago, I was reading a contribution on how all institutions, development institutions, like California, are fleeing from urban centres to rob and land. There are all the cities in the country, because people in their intellectual work and in their spare time are right out of work or even during work, because we are actually all the time at work, looking for more pleasant environments. In Slovenia this trend does not take place in this direction. And this solidarity, which this law, while I want a different law, is more oriented than in Europe, where development structures, backlogs or advancements are being corrected and financed according to these criteria. But this minimum solidarity in those environments that, because of such trends in Slovenia, which I think are unmodern, this minimum solidarity is supposed to be redirected in this way from those who are significantly more developing, economically than those who are not. Development in one environment, in the municipalities, that real development directs the economy, as well as the country that follows it in these environments. Slovenia is so small and so transport-related, although these roads still need to be developed, communicationally linked, that economic operators should, in my opinion, seek their opportunities in the countryside or near these urban centres, in centres where problems are large because of their specificity. In rural areas or in non-urban centres, problems are mainly due to underdeveloped infrastructure, environmental, transport. And that's also why people in these environments are running to the center and then it's getting bad again. This would reduce day-to-day migration, the daily transport problems that are due to this, and the costs if economic development and all other developments were to spread across Slovenia or somehow go from the centres themselves and not continue to be directed at Slovenia to these centres. I think that the big problem in Slovenia is also that the current regime has caused some municipalities to try to operate only in terms of the largest population in their territory, because income was in fact the only criterion and the most important source of revenue for municipalities - intensive housing and in some ways attracting as many new citizens in their environments, to offer more for these broad crowds in the field of sport, and this was mainly a developmental trend in these municipalities. Of course, the classic business zone and what is still a problem in all municipalities and all environments, the regulation of municipal infrastructure. However, I think that there should be some kind of solidarity in this country in this respect as well. Of course, then, Mr Minister, I expect that in the next steps, in addition to the solidarity-based funding of municipalities, in some Robinhud translation from richer environments to poorer ones, but I do not mean as directly as I have just said, it is a fundamental value that we must support to help less developed environments, and even if in this way with a formula, with some, I would say, an arithmetic way of determining this solidarity, I expect that in Slovenia we will adopt an appropriate law which will be an environment that is structurally backward, where their state of development is significantly worse than comparable environments in Slovenia or Europe, that we will approach such a way, not solidarity funding, but developmental financing, that these structural backlogs will be more quickly overcome where they are larger, faster than comparable environments in Slovenia or Europe. In this respect, I consider this law to be an intermediate level and therefore I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u13	Thank you. I'd, uh, let me give you a heads-up. The agenda we are discussing is Article 8 of the Law and both amendments to this Article. First, Mrs Zalokarjev, Member of the State of Šteba, continued with the general debate on the law. I think that the general debate was held in the National Assembly for a very long time, it was very thorough, it was also based on the Committee and I would ask Members to stick to the point, namely Article 8 and both amendments to this Article. That's it. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleague of Poland and Members of Parliament! I understand this comment, Mr President, but Article 8 is actually talking about the sources by which the congregation is supposed to carry out all the tasks assigned to it. That is why this debate is also a bit broader, and I myself will find it difficult to speak only about what is proposed in this amendment, because the matter is very complex. Otherwise, I understand this amendment of the LDS in this direction to ensure the financial independence of the congregation. But I must say that I have always found it very difficult to understand what the financial autonomy of the congregations should mean. I can understand that for those who are rich. For our rural municipalities, where wages are low, pensions are low, unemployment is high, because you do not have some industrial establishments that could pay, I don't know, large compensation for the use of buildings, etc., and I find it difficult to understand what the financial autonomy of the municipalities would be. I find it difficult to understand Mr Rope, who says that there is a need to increase separate fiscal resources. What should we do to increase them in our congregation? I don't see how we can increase them. What we can impose on citizens, where still 25% of people depend directly on agriculture. We all know how much agriculture brings to the gross social product of the Republic of Slovenia. 2%. What else should we take from them? What should the municipal budget be filled with? I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister on this issue, which is very difficult. It's really a very difficult question. This LDS proposal, which says 37% of the income. That's very good. Of course I agree with these fiery speeches for Ljubljana, for Domžale etc. However, this argument falls as soon as I say that the average gross salary in Ormož is 224 000 SIT and in Ljubljana is 341. Will you, Mr. Kumer, wait, get your word? The population density is low. We have a lot of road, we are far away if you want to tell me what the value of the apartment is, all our young people have to go to colleges where they have to pay for their stay, where they have to pay for their stay, where they're far from home, where they have to pay huge transportation costs, and I'm not going to tell you what it's all about. So in this debate, respected colleagues and colleagues, we can show different situations because we live in different environments. Those who wake up in the morning in the winter, however, have paved roads and clean sidewalks, can go to work in a different way than those who have to do it on their own in the morning, so that they can go to work and have to repair roads after each storm, so that they can then drive on these roads. That's the situation. And there are also some Members coming from such backgrounds. And I can make this law, which will, I am sure, make it much more fair to distribute these funds to the level of the country and then the rural environment will make it easier to do what we all expect of it. I listen everywhere: more tourism, more tourists. How will we attract tourists if we don't have roads? I invite you to come to these congregations in northeastern Slovenia, and we'll drive around these places, I don't know, because there's not much altitude there, up to 300 meters, but you'll see how many macadamia we have, how many rough roads and how much resources we need for this. And I can say that the proposal, for example, for the former congregation of Ormož, means a good 300 million more, just say hello. The plots are built with us, if they are, because no one asks much about them, but if they are, if they are owned by the congregation, they are cheap. Here in Ljubljana this is one of the largest sources. Then all the other things that companies and institutions continue to contribute to the budget of the city of Ljubljana. The community I live in doesn't get anything out of it. The only thing is, because we don't have jobs, we lose young people who go to college in Ljubljana and then they don't come back. At home, they leave elderly parents who are needed through home care, and I don't know how we're going to take care of them, because these things just accumulate and I don't see any possibility of a quick solution to this big problem. Except that we will realize that Slovenia will truly become a polycentric, evenly developed country. I see this law in this direction and I support it in this way, as it is prepared, and I cannot agree with this amendment of the LDS, because it is true, if this were accepted, and this gives even more to those who are rich, in Prleka we would use another word, I will not be in this place, because we are only in the national assembly, but the farmer knows something else about such things. Thus, if we want to keep part of the youth in these rural environments, if we want Slovenia to remain settled to remain cultivated, then some anachronism in the financing of the municipalities that have been in force so far needs to be changed and this law follows. In any case, Members of Parliament, you will be happy to listen to you, in Domžal, probably also; those who have to live in Slovenian Gorica, Haloz, Kozjanski, throughout Slovenia and probably a little less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Rop has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I think it is very good that Mr Sok spoke before me, because otherwise I would have given him a replica. Above all, because what he has just said exudes a deep misunderstanding of our proposals, our discussions and what we would like to achieve. So, I deeply regret that, on the one hand, you claim to agree in principle with what we are proposing, then you say that this proposal, however, affects the development of less developed communities. Absolutely not! That's not true, that's not our proposal! Our proposal is not about financing, and it is about greater funding for less developed municipalities, including the municipalities where you are mayor. Not all those other congregations that you have just told me that their citizens will not be pleased or disappointed with the proposal we make. If they believe what you said and what is wrong, they may feel that they want to do so. Well, that's not true. What you say, and when you say that you do not understand the financial autonomy of the municipalities - certainly not, I must say that I do not understand, in particular because it is not because it is clear that after this law is passed, there will not be a single congregation financially independent if there are now some municipalities financially independent, in most cases those municipalities that have development potentials that have accelerated have been further motivated to open industrial zones, development zones and so on and to accelerate development. You will now take financial independence from this too. But those congregations that you speak of will have no greater financial autonomy than they have ever had. Well, there's no logic in what you're saying, especially that. Here we do not propose to take it to small municipalities and return to what is being taken by Ljubljana to the capital of the Republic of Slovenia and to the urban centre. We don't say that. We are just saying, give solidarity with the other municipalities, as Mr from the SDS has said, transfer to the whole budget, take no capital, take no urban centres, take no fiscal decentralisation or introduce fiscal centralisation, as no European state knows. Take it in other areas. Here we have a discussion on the state budget, perhaps - reduce the volume of funds, maybe - reduce the amount of funds for the glass palace, for the armoured, and in particular we have warned you, and in view of what you have just talked about, I must say that I am very disappointed that we would like to give the rich even more than they have. For God's sake, Mr. Sok, that's what you did in the Income Act. 35% of the richest Slovenians have been given 30 billion. If only a third of these were taken from the richest in the Income Law, we would have more than enough resources for all the small congregations, for all the projects you are talking about. So it's not true! You first gave the rich an extra prize, reduced their taxes, reduced their burdens, those of denationalisation, and now you take the capital, the urban center and other cities, the Ljubljanas, to give to those who really need funds. You're taking the wrong end and we're warning you about it, warning you and praying that it's not wise. Even if we find together that more resources need to be provided to small municipalities, let us take resources where this is most reasonable and developmentally justified and, of course, also leads to greater solidarity, as discussed earlier. That's why I want to say, because this is, I think, a fundamental test. Of course, we have very little hope in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that anyone here would listen to our arguments, so I predict a new amendment to Article 8, virtually ready, I think it is also invested, which, together with what you have prepared in the coalition, represents the whole and is the lacumus paper, or you seriously think about it when you talk about solidarity when you talk about development when you talk about the financial autonomy of the municipalities. We propose that the amendment be supplemented so that Article 8 reads: "The funding of municipalities is also a source of income from at least 37% of the income," so that those who are less poor lose nothing. It is a pity that you do not listen to me, Mr Sok, that you do not care, "which is in accordance with the law the revenue of the state budget, for each financial year at least at the level of the total consumption of the municipalities." Of course, in other words, it means that no one will lose anything, no one. All the congregations you spoke about will receive funds, and the municipalities will receive less resources than they would have been, and the total amount of funds for the congregations will increase. So, if you are serious and you are serious about a balanced policy that favours both the rural environment and the urban environment, as well as projects that are important for the whole of Slovenia, then of course I am begging you and can't do anything else than ask you to accept such an amendment. For then the amendment you have drafted in the coalition, which says, "as their own sources of funding," will make sense. So, in the second paragraph, you say, "Taxes shall be fixed, whose revenue shall be deducted from the municipalities at the level referred to in the preceding paragraph as their own resources." If you have an inside guard in the first paragraph that at least what are taxes is really your own source, then the second part is consistent, if not, but of course it is a farce, what you propose in the second paragraph. For in the first paragraph, you say nothing but this: in the budget we will determine and give the municipalities as much out of the budget as is appropriate. It is true that you also have some resources that are the source of the state budget, which is totally unrelated, when it comes to the concept of an integrated budget, that it is important what comes from the state budget, but not what comes from the resources, and the essence of fiscal efficiency is that when it comes to expenditure when it comes to expenditure in the state budget, it is compared politically, economically and socially with their comparability and effectiveness. And I'm telling you here today, let's compare these expenses, not just the small large congregations! It is not the only bag you can pick up, pick up and empty, Ljubljana! There's something else. Take those you can take if you want. If you don't want to, of course you won't, and we can talk here what we want. And what I would like to add in the end, I just hope that some of this will remain written and that someone will remember something from what is being accepted today, because the consequences will be clear and in some cases will be quite difficult. So once again, we propose an amendment, which is "at least 37% of the income, for each financial year, at least at the level of total consumption", and we are prepared and will be happy to support your amendments and this amendment that is before us. And then I believe that we will come together to the Law on the Financing of Communities, which will be better than the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Sok, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I'd like to talk to my colleague first. He told him that there is no expert in Slovenia who would argue that 50% of progressive taxation is appropriate, except for you, of course, which, on every occasion, you repeat it here as a piece of crap and always talk about reducing this income. As for your proposal to increase independent fiscal resources, you know, you didn't touch my main data: the average gross salary in Ljubljana is 341,000, and we have a long way down there, and 224,000. And you suggest we take 37% of the income. Yeah, because that's what they're learning, I don't know, I think in the fourth grade of elementary school, they're learning their interest rate bill, so they can calculate what 37% of 341 means and what 37% of 224 means. According to this proposal, where wages are large, they would get a lot, where wages are low and where unemployment is large and where there are many pensioners, who do not even pay income, and where they would get even less. And this proposal of the law just this deviation and this contradiction that you're going into -- you can hold on, of course, to the head -- it cancels. And if I say that we have more than 20,000 inhabitants over 500 kilometers of local roads, public roads and all that needs to be maintained, then it is possible to understand the situation we are in today's law. And after this calculation, the new proposal brings more than 300 million additional funds to the municipalities in the area of our administrative unit. And this 300 million, you can believe, will be loaded into the most acute problem, which is improving road infrastructure. Therefore, I cannot agree with these arguments of yours, however you will explain them here today, and this amendment, as you propose, cannot be supported in any way. Once again, all praise to the Minister for hoping to make such changes to the funding of the municipalities as it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Today's debate is rather difficult, rather complicated, and I am surprised, firstly, that after the Government has done a number of things for two years, we will take the most important measures of this government today or tomorrow at half past two in the morning when we confirm the amendments to this act and, of course, the 2007 budget. Why is that important? This is important because I have a feeling that we are in some extraordinary situation when we have to change the most important law on the neck of the Republic of Slovenia at an emergency session. So far, it has been very clear that the country has taken 65% of income and 35% have received congregations. And municipalities where incomes were lower, because the structure was such that more or more pensioners or more young people were receiving financial compensation. And the municipalities were encouraged to increase their own resources with additional resources. It was right that, in all the years so far, there had been no negative accounts of financial settlement, a special story that I would not discuss, but the situation will now be the next. Let us look at two congregations: Ljubljana and Grosuplje. In the last 10 years, the group has been trying to turn unwalled buildings into walled building plots to move people to Grosuplje with higher income. And that's why Grosuplje started collecting 35% of these people's income, and 65% went into the state budget. Now the situation will be different: the country will take everything, but Grosup will give Grosup as much as she thinks it will, and the difference between Ivančni Gorica or any other congregation that is not trying so hard to work on its own development. This is disstimulating for the congregations. And that is why I say that this system is headed by balkanisation or a way of financing in the previous country. We have completely centralised the decision on how much and what development should be in the individual congregation. To say that there should be different headships for an individual in congregations, others will talk about it, but it is even controversial. With the bill, by not adopting the amendment in view of the debate of the ruling coalition, as I hear it, another very big question is being asked. I congratulate the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development for giving up his post; he has resigned from the position of Minister who cares for local self-government because, by doing so, he has transferred all his powers and powers to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance will determine each year how much money will be allocated to the municipalities by means of the law on the implementation of the budget. And if anyone thinks that we can still think about the long-term or medium-term development of an individual municipality, when resources are not clearly provided, because it is probably constitutionally controversial, then we have to ask ourselves whether we still have local self-government in Slovenia. Yes, we have it, local self-government without real resources, destimulating the development of individual municipalities and subjugating each municipality to a centralist decision, not the Minister for Local Self-Government, the Minister for Finance, depending on the state budget situation, is far from asserting state autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nevertheless, I would like to try to explain some of the things in the replica that have now emerged in this debate. First of all, the proposed law is fully harmonised in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government in this segment. We can also go through specific areas with regard to the financing of local self-government and further substantiate this, which means that it is also in line with the Constitution because the European Charter has been ratified in the National Assembly. As far as the basic plan of the law is concerned; this is also important for this article to be discussed, they go in two directions. On the one hand, once again, it is a matter of greater equity of funding, which means that the integrated elements of solidarity and, last but not least, the elements of more equitable development, polycentric development. And if I remember correctly, before the elections, if you look at individual client programmes, I am sure that all the parties have this written down as one of the basic principles and now there is a concrete law on the table that applies these things. And that is why I am confident that all parties will be able to support this law. And on the other hand, it goes into greater autonomy to carry out tasks at the level of the municipalities, for several reasons. From the first part, where we are talking about greater equivalency of funding, we are providing these funds to the municipalities. These funds shall also be provided to the municipalities through deferred income. Indeed, the new Law on the Financing of Communities provides that municipalities also have a source of funding for taxes belonging to the State, i.e. income and other taxes, and thus provides for significantly greater stability of financing, because income can and may also have positive or negative effects. Thus, the municipalities will continue to be exempt from the State by virtue of the new Law on the Financing of Communities, only to be determined in an absolute annual amount for each individual municipality and no longer on average at 35%. That's right. In terms of more equal funding for the tasks in this area. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the total amount of income which will be allocated to municipalities will be significantly higher than the current 35%, even higher than the currently proposed 37%, and at this point I think that there will be about 50% of the decommissioned income. Greater autonomy in this work is covered by tasks, which means that individual municipalities have a much more rational management capacity within this framework, and then more resources remain for the performance of their own tasks as well. I only speak in this part. And in the second part, those taxes which are derogated from the municipalities are entirely self-sufficient for the municipalities to be able to carry out their own policies with these taxes - not only taxes, but also with other taxes. This is, of course, in a significantly better position than it has been in the past, when most municipalities were on a level playing field and when virtually all resources, including taxes, were used to compensate for building land, and in fact the State has fully controlled these tax resources. Thus, much greater progress is certainly made in this direction. Now that matters the criteria that have been applied, we are, of course, also in relation to the profession. This law was made in close connection with the profession that covers this area, and of course we have examined these elements many times with expertise. They fully agree that guidance, of course, even the profession agrees that guidance is right. In fact, we tried to keep the criteria within these limited criteria and thus take into account the diversity of individual congregations. At the moment when we are going to expand the criteria, we are going in the direction of guaranteed spending, and in this respect, of course, we are reducing the autonomy of decision-making on individual revenues and also the rationality of management, the management of resources within the municipalities. I am sure that this is in this direction and all the right mayors, all the right leaders of the municipalities are going in this direction to try to be as rational as possible, because then for these tasks they devote the part of the funds they are, and simply within this part more resources for some of the own and developmental investment tasks if you want, although in the calculation of the average for this period of investment, they have not been included in the analysis and consideration at the level of the average and are outside the work. Of course, it is necessary to read the law in its entirety; it does not hold to what has been said as far as the criteria are concerned. Of course, the criteria bring some numbers, but we still need to read, also Article 14, where we have the so-called diversity index of municipalities, which brings additional benefits to the urban environment because the number of inhabitants is largely taken into account, and now to the individual congregation. Not like before, as flat for city halls so much, for those with administrative units so much and for others alike. This index goes practically from the congregation to the congregation and, in fact, in this sense of return, this law needs to be fully reviewed. You can't read and take from the context just one article. And also, as far as comparisons with other countries are concerned, these things need to be fully viewed. And perhaps, as far as these figures are concerned, I must also make it very clear that virtually all municipalities receive additional funds, which have also been provided with the budget, not only from transfers, but not from around. During this period, what this government is, of course, we have provided additional funds for the municipalities and also from the 2007 rebalancing are additional resources, not just for work, which means a reduction in funds due to the application of income legislation. And now only two more sentences are possible if I stop at the so-called urbanity of this law. I cannot agree with this, of course, because if we agreed to this dictatorship, then we could say that in Slovenia only one municipality or two municipalities are urban, but not all others are, because also to the other municipalities in the system of more equal financing, and even to my fairer opinion, all municipalities are not getting additional funds - from Maribor, I think a billion 600, Celje there 700 and all others, Murska Sobota, Koper and everyone else. Now I don't have all the numbers at this point, but we can read them, but it is true that these are estimated values, and the final ones will be known after this year has passed, once the income shares are fully known. Nor can we agree that this law in itself stimulates the formation of congregations. I reject this because the solutions are uniform, take into account the uniform criteria and who would take a close look at the analysis would see that urban centres can also, in fact, acquire additional resources from the criteria themselves. It is really necessary to examine these things thoroughly, because we, as far as the criteria are concerned, have also been very careful about this and then the solution is the one that came out of it. And now it's all about the capital. I am absolutely aware and need to give the capital the weight of the capital, which has not been done in the past period. It was passed two years ago by a law that was not enforced, which covers these matters and this law needs to be enforced. In this part, the investment address, as it would like to be shown, does not take on any part of anything, because these funds are not intended for priority investments, but are intended for tasks in the field that municipalities must carry out and are comparable, regardless of where our people live: or in Ljubljana, if you wish, or on the top of Haloz, Pohorje, Goričko and also on the other hand, close to Triglav. They're comparable. And of course, the criteria are uniform and useful. I agree what Ljubljana means, this system of legislation means more transparency, because we will be able to make it very clear: this part is the ongoing tasks of local self-government, this part is investments, development investments within the city itself, and this part is the part that Ljubljana must have as its capital and matters must be implemented through the Capital Law. Of course, a number of options are open in the coming period as regards the realisation of investments. I only hope that municipalities, including Ljubljana, will also prepare concrete projects, even if we are talking, say, about using European funds. And perhaps before I conclude, as far as the issues that are constantly emerging are concerned, if they are - even this previous idea that we have resigned local self-government to the Ministry of Finance; we have not resigned to the Ministry of Finance, we have put local self-government in the right place because we have brought the community through both associations through this law and will actively participate in the adoption of the law every time both in the preparation of the average and all other matters following from this title. However, ministries are obliged to draw up appropriate rules for each area, as we have already done for that share of specific development programmes in our service, which will also be covered by the accompanying legislation at the time of adoption of the budget, and this means that there will be a substantial increase in transparency in this area than it has been before, because there have been no such rules and the ministries have indeed been able to provide sovereignly with funds for the investments themselves. However, it is pointless in this law for each area to write down precisely certain shares because of what has been the solution so far, because a single ministry must have autonomy in its field and must take into account certain specificities through this autonomy in order to lead a policy in this area. Finally, this is also closely linked to the use of European funds, which will be substantially higher in the future, four times higher, and are primarily intended for development investments. And there, of course, the criteria are completely different. I would like to reiterate once again that in this sense I am convinced that this law leads things forward. This proposal means, for example, returning to the previous situation where the differences between the most developed centres and the rest of Slovenia have increased. And this is a problem that is present at this point, as far as the question is concerned, say, Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jazbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Your Honor! If we are to reach two amendments to Article 8, unfortunately, something else must be said before the sources of funding. When I listen to today's debate, I would say something like this, that it seems to me - it was also at a meeting of the mother's working body - as if we were sitting in two places, in one minister together with the coalition and in another opposition that insists on things that are not actually recorded in the law. The current Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which I claim to have been a breakdown, and with which most Slovene municipalities have been engaged in the past 8 years, gave complete autonomy in the last year to only 17 and 19 municipalities in Slovenia. The new law will equalise all municipalities in Slovenia. Farsa, that the law takes the city of Ljubljana, has no justification. Nor is this justified when trying to prove to the Slovenian public that with the new Law on the Financing of Municipalities money is taken to all urban settlements. Maribor acquires, Celje acquires, and some other major city municipalities acquire. Ljubljana is unfortunately losing, which means that the inhabitants of Maribor, Ljubljana, Celje and those non-urban parts of Slovenia will finally be equal in financing. Today, there has also been a lot of talk about the so-called work where the state will finance individual projects in 100%, except for transport taxes or VAT, and this move, which is enshrined in the law, is somehow described as corrupt. But there's something you need to say. All these years, or these last 8 years after the current Community Financing Act, there has been a calculus assessment of the revenue of municipalities for the financing of municipalities. This, however, allowed the finance ministers so far to be able to assess politically, even by any means, the extent to which a congregation must choose these funds. And if someone were willing to do an analysis, you might find that in the past it was done that way. However, since this has been done in the past, it is now suspected and already impeding the current finance minister and all futures to act in the same manner as it has been in past governments and past years. That is why I will not support the amendment of the LDS to Article 8, but will, of course, support the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups: SDS, New Slovenia, DeSUS and the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will only talk about these two amendments, which are attached to this Article 8. In the past, we have talked about good wages and also about some of the weaknesses that the law brings, and I think it is right that we remember, at least, those who are the most dramatic, and that we are trying to make the marriage even better, because now the law is suitable for a longer period, and for some congregations it is shocking in the following year, that is, in a good month or two. What I would like to say in terms of both amendments is, for the first time, that the amendment we have signed does not change anything with regard to the autonomy and financial autonomy of the municipalities and that the amendment proposed by the LDS, first of all, or else our parliamentary group, is proposed for re-examination, we feel that it is prudent to be in favour of this amendment, because some things are being corrected and no one is taking what the law does for him. It is important for us that this attitude towards this amendment is, in fact, an anti-shock of the amendment or an anti-shock of the amendment. Those who have been computerised in the past have signed contracts that have planned development programmes without knowing what will happen to them since 1 January 2007 are, of course, in a stressful situation, because this cannot be solved with some specific additional resources that could be provided just overnight. Of course, it is also true that we think very differently about what autonomy means. My view is that the autonomy of individual municipalities certainly does not depend on the amount of resources, but depends on whether and how we can decide, we influence budgets, resources and expenditure. Now, unfortunately, this law is not offering us this right now. For the longer term, yes, by getting a truly independent resource in a few years, with compensation for the use of building land, and by increasing those tax revenues of the process in the sense that they will remain with the municipalities and will not be transferred to the state budget and then the decommissioning of state resources. You can see that because of the technology itself, how the municipalities will be financed, many are complicated because the law is so complicated, rather than simplifying, instead of giving real autonomy on the one hand and helping those who, on the other hand, cannot provide financial autonomy themselves. I think that in past discussions with at least three amendments we have tried to put this anti-shock into effect. Unfortunately, all the amendments have been rejected on the labour force and on the Committee on Finance, and the amendment is now being proposed to correct slightly what has been delayed so far. I am sure that with this amendment, if we support it - and we will, the DeSUS Group will support it - nothing is lost by those who gain from the bill, and that we will alleviate the problems that the bill imposes on some other municipalities, so that I do not list them by name, because they have already been listed several times. Otherwise, it must be said that the law itself speaks of autonomy and speaks of its absence. It speaks of all the regulations, all the criteria, all the rules and everything else, which is decisive, being adopted by the Ministry or the Government "post Festum". Today, we cannot calculate what this will bring, because this has not yet been accepted. And that doesn't affect the increase in our autonomy. The law brings us, most of the congregations, more money, but some also mean a deficit, and of course it does not mean an increase in the autonomy, sovereignty of the congregations, which is one of the ambitions of the bill. If such a law is to be passed, at least we will have to get used to it, not to claim that autonomy has increased, but to have some more money with less autonomy. Each year, however, we will depend on how the government, or individual ministers, or the National Assembly, will decide on the favor of individual municipalities in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. We will not support the proposed LDS amendment in the New Slovenia Group. In fact, I would like to point out that if we were to adopt this proposed amendment, then the proposed law or system, as set out now, is literally broken. Let's go back to where we were after the foundation of what's in the existing law remains. However, I understand some that they want us to redefine the amount of income that is to be spent in the municipal budget. I also know that this is primarily a desire, or one that would gain the most by doing so again. Now, whoever was doing an analysis of the existing and new law knows that very well. 17 congregations or 18, 19, I don't know exactly, those who were self-financing, would actually come back into that financial situation, if I could say what they were in, or I would say, I would leave Ljubljana now, the rest of them would gain hugely again; even what Member Rob proposed additionally, but until appropriate consumption, is entirely - I don't know which congregation is just 35%, except Ljubljana, overrun the right spending, probably not, but it's literally the same thing if we add "to the right consumption". This means, on the one hand, that these municipalities would somehow, in terms of development or economic development, if I say so, have great opportunities or could stimulate development, which means that many more additional resources could be acquired, but on the other hand they would continue to carry on what I think a colleague of Šteba or a number of others said before, nothing more, and I will not say solidarity, but I say: this law more fairly shares resources across the entire of Slovenia to 210 municipalities or has a basis in coherent regional development. I must say that in these so-called urban centres or municipalities it will be necessary to think more about - which has not been necessary so far, given that some municipalities have literally accumulated in money - about resources such as, for example, compensation for the use of building land, even this source has so far been partly out of use, as we know that it has been a calculus assessment. The new law also contains a certain percentage of these resources as own resources outside the appropriate consumption. And what has happened so far? That if we wanted to carry out at least financial projects or tasks in rural congregations or municipalities in undeveloped areas, we were putting a considerable burden on citizens in this segment, and we were collecting compensation throughout the congregation. If we look at the level of burden for all the municipalities so far, it would be interesting to look at this analysis, the following - how some municipalities, especially the Ljubljana municipality, would today ask how much of this compensation has been collected. Unfortunately, though, we have put even more pressure on the poor. I would say, however, that this law is stimulating for these congregations to go into this area, or that there is such a tax on property that is certain to do so, I would say, evenly or equally affect the burden of all Slovenes and Slovenes, not by having a heavy burden on citizens where there is enough money in this area, but by now the citizen will be less. I can't understand at all - I think it's been said many times - about financial autonomy. But earlier, someone had stated that there was no financial autonomy in this respect, that the municipalities would now not plan expenditure under this law or development projects autonomously. I don't know where that says. The municipalities will have their own resources, as before, or in the integrated budget for which the projects will be allocated, except for what is prescribed by law, what are compulsory tasks or which municipalities must carry out in the field of pre-school education, primary education and so on, so as not to list all these areas. The government or the state will determine, individually, how much funding will be allocated to the municipalities. Yes, I don't know. Even so far, the headship in ZIPRO has been determined, even every year individually. I remember very well that in 2002, when we had inflation, I don't know how much more than 10% or probably a two-digit number was when the principal was increased by a few percent; or, I would say, the financial resources were real in 2001, when the increase in living costs was very high, actually the principal was falling. It fell by 2004 and for the first time in 2005, when this new government increased the volume of funds or principals for municipalities by 10% and in 2006 by 4.5 and in 2007 by 4.5. So I don't understand the next amendment - or I will discuss it later - to article 14, which speaks in terms of calculations that some municipalities, i.e. 20 listed, are very concerned about planned investments. Yes, but if now - not 4.5 for 2007, a congregation or all of these congregations listed there have received much more than 4.5% - yes, then I do not know whether you are speculated that these congregations should be cancelled or I do not understand best because there is no reasoned explanation written; this is the next amendment. [[...]] I would have somehow concluded by how I began that some municipalities were literally or could have been hiding capital revenues from the outside. No, well, because in the final account it's probably all clearly seen, etc., and when we're talking today or you're talking about poor, urbanly managed municipalities etc., you know, we have to watch the integral budget. In the future, however, how many possibilities or financial resources they have acquired on this segment will be acquired by municipalities, from the sale of real estate, etc., which is not possible in other non-urban municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. I really want to see a coherent regional development in Slovenia, and I must commend myself, as did my fellow Member Sok before me, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and regional development, that they have done something in this area. And we see a better future for those areas in Slovenia, which I must say, we have not seen in the past. We have adopted the Law on Harmonised Regional Development of Men in 1998 or 1999, where we have clearly written in the law that we will commit to coherent regional development, I think, 1.1.5% of gross social product. Yes, what we did or did to those who were in power. You removed the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development and the Minister, so there was no need to implement the law. I am this amendment, which somehow explains what its own resources are, what Members or Members of the Coalition are proposing, New Slovenia is not signed here, but I think that in New Slovenia we will support this - if someone wants to be more clear to him, but who does not want to understand it, it will not understand what the decommissioned source is from the country with which the congregation has it. Is it its own source or is it not its own resource? Somebody tell me if this 35% income was your own source? That was the definition, but I do know that this came to pass in a joint account because it was divided; so many countries, so many congregations. For the future, I now imagine nothing different than that for a certain municipality of 35, or 30, or up to 50, as far as the calculation of the appropriate consumption would be based on the municipalities, that the criteria or the level of the financial resources which, according to a specific calculation of the appropriate consumption, would be met will be met at the final stage. Now, some of you have terrible problems about what is a remote source, what is your own source, what is the autonomy of the congregation and so on, and what is it that will always be every year, as it has been said, the ministry or the country based on popularity - I do not know who, with the mayor - will especially share financial resources. I don't see it in this marriage. Thus, this amendment proposed by the coalition will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u30	I've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u31	You were not mentioned, the debate was on content. Mr Rob, please, if you join the next round in the debate, there will be plenty of time. Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this renewed amendment of the LDS and I would like to briefly point out in a few points some of the fundamental misunderstandings that the coalition and the minister and those that advocate this amendment, which has only partially rectified the damage that is already here in the same law. First around solidarity has already been said. Our amendment does not go in the direction of reducing solidarity and does not take on smaller municipalities, and we must also say that every budget and any such funding is a clear, always regional and local redistribution of public or state resources. Of course, it is necessary to know what solidarity is and what solidarity is in the notes. I would like to remind you that we had a system of assistance that was less developed in the former country, which acted exactly the opposite, which stimulated the local authorities to start applying, to implement strategies that kept them from exceeding those limits that they would have classified from less developed to more developed, this is a so-called Kosovo strategy that some of us have studied. And this system leads exactly that way, even more so than the previous one, the previous one was not good or present, and this is even worse because of the system of how these principals are accounted for and that is the main problem. Today, the problem we face in local environments is not that local environments want to have industry, jobs, more and more local environments that want to prevent or deny certain jobs and certain industries. And that's a bigger problem today. A whole bunch of businesses, entrepreneurs can barely find any other location, not to get to it! And this is a story that is even more stimulated by this law because it does not bind the congregation’s financial performance to its own resources or binds it even less than the previous law. Therefore, the stories of the differences in average wages will not save us. Of course, the difference in average wage between Ormož and Ljubljana is a talkable indicator of the rate of development, but because of this way of financing this level of development will not be reduced because it will not increase the average wage, because this system will not lead to attracting high-quality jobs and so on. That's why this is a conversation of the deaf. And once again, this is anti-urban policy. It is a conscious systematic decline in the role and importance of major cities. And here we have a lot of problems. We have problems understanding what polycentrism is, which we all swear to. Polycentrism is not a random non-discriminatory scattering of resources and competences in the field, polycentrism, as it was designed, is based on the developmental, functional regional role of 13 cities, as it was once defined, in Slovenia. And this developmental role of these 13 cities, which take over this development function also for rural areas, is now very much reduced; it was cut back in 1974, but we will not go too far into history. So it's not even true what you're saying is polycentrism. No, this is entirely more or less coincidental, depending on the political will of the State, which will determine the height of the principal, the distribution of these resources across the Slovenian space and the reduction of the active role of the municipalities, as more than the current law reduces their competence in resources. And this law is remedying the consequences of the wrong local development policy, which has gone and is likely to continue to establish a larger number of smaller municipalities. A special example is the city of Ljubljana, of course Maribor and possible agromerisation [[?]] coastal areas. These urban agromerizations have completely different problems, both by character and by rank. Suburbanization even strengthens their problems with regard to financial autonomy. According to its spatial design, Ljubljana will die if it does not radically solve the problem of transport, urban transport. But she's not gonna be able to solve this because she's locked into a system that's taking her initiative and reducing her role. And this law actually triggers a crisis of major cities. I will not go into literature on several occasions described the logic of the crisis of major cities, but I will only say that as a Ljubljana Member, and this time as a Ljubljana Member, I will do everything to ensure that this law does not come into force, that this law will also "fall" in the Constitutional Court. And it's true, as was said, Comrade Steba, how they escape from the city centers in California. I would really ask him not to talk about things he doesn't know well. I show him a picture of the population movement from 1991 to 2001, both censuses, and you will see that in addition to the goods areas where there is no highway corridor, there are three major cities: Ljubljana, Maribor and Celje. And Maribor is the most important, Celje and Ljubljana. And that there is a suburbanization and that this is one of Ljubljana's great problems. Cities in California, because they have their own resources from activities, they compete for jobs, intellectuals, creative professions, and so on and create the conditions for as many of them to get there as possible. These cities do not have any economic, environmental and any initiatives or initiatives to do so. Why would I drag the industry into my congregation if the chieftain fixed all the necessary and other costs for me? And that's what happens to us. With such a system, we have untied municipalities with great and small responsibilities even more than with a system that has not been good, rather than going in the direction of creating solidarity where it is really necessary and needs many people in Slovenia very strongly, and say to municipalities: here you have resources, make from these resources from your municipality what you know and are capable of, then you would have better development. And then we would have regional differences, but we could attribute them to more or less successful strategies of local, urban, municipal and regional leaders for who wins the competition for jobs, quality added value and so on. This law does not allow this. This marriage goes beyond that, even more than the present law, and that is why it is not good for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. To return to the amendments we have on the table. We have yet to complete our amendment, and I think it is even better now than it was before. However, in view of the debate we have here, I stress once again that the adoption of this amendment does not undermine the concept of this law, because that is the only thing that would happen for those municipalities that should and would lose funds to maintain the current situation. But to those who gain, all that this way, a new calculation, a new formula brings, and we keep it all. Since you have talked a lot about solidarity, I am surprised, Members and Members of my colleagues, who, in fact, are sometimes more in Ljubljana than in your births or congregations of my permanent residence, that I am nevertheless appalled at how with one hidden joy, or not even with the hidden but with the open joy and with what pleasure you enjoy preparing and finding the law and the formula and the system and putting it into a novel of this law, with which Ljubljana will lose 8 billion and a half. I have already said on the committee that sometimes it is very unstimulating to speak and defend Ljubljana, because this, at least in this circle of this Parliament, has never actually been accepted positively. Ljubljana is hated, Ljubljana is, I will say, because our capital is quite in this way handicapped and never, or very rarely, is found in Parliament, today is a colleague of Gantar, who says I, and I am an MEP from Ljubljana. Everyone else is with the heart for their cities and places, for Ljubljana rarely anyone advocates things like that. And this time it is all the more visible that, in fact, this National Assembly is also very anti-urban, because with this amendment we would only preserve the state that it is. I am sure that everyone who is now a long time in Ljubljana, you know that Ljubljana needs investment funds, that it needs all of us to be proud of our capital, because tomorrow we may have to be somewhere across the border proud of this, if we can't be on this unfortunate bloodline with which we're supposed to be "kitting" now. I hope I can at least take the lead. As far as compensation is concerned, I would like to say that it is absolutely not true that they do not apply compensation in urban settings. I know the study, it was done years ago, and it's the other way around. Much more compensation and in substantial amounts is collected in urban environments, even more. When the study was carried out at that time, there were 44 Slovene municipalities and among them none of the urban areas that had no compensation, 44 did not have it at all, and this was strictly the environment which received all the funds from the State through the compensation and, of course, provided that compensation as a tax source was provided to its citizens and citizens, it would have received so much less funding from the State. Therefore, a clear calculation showed that it could not be introduced, and then the Ministry of Finance began to determine the amounts in some quotas that should be mandatory, even prescribed in this way, because many knew that this deficiency existed in this old formula. Facts, figures and analyses speak quite contrary, as was presented here today, and it is not "fair" and it is not right to want to show how terribly burdened the people in the countryside are, but in the cities everything is beautiful and right. I personally, sociologically say that today is much less pleasant, much less quality living in urban environments, believe it, much less, so people are now, in recent years, evicting from cities to outskirts, and even more so, I will say, with leisure activities or weekends running out of cities. To say that everything is nice and right in the city today is not true, problems are also great in cities if you want to see them. And in this sense, I think it's really a disaster that in this way the urban environment, once again, I say, in that formula and no one who has anything in these days counted, I don't believe, we're going to see what we're going to get in 2007 in the municipalities. We don't get numbers, we don't get numbers. Is this really the 23 billion, and where will we get something sooner, then this will be given, as we can tell? I think it will be necessary to wait for the numbers and I will be very happy if these things stand and it will indeed be an additional 23 billion as it wants to show itself, distributed to other Slovene municipalities, except, of course, these four: Ljubljana, Trzin, Šempetr, Vrtojba and Logu-Dragomer. Of course, there are two more words about development. You can asphalt roads to the last house in the farthest place, we can have sidewalks, flowers on all bridges, we can have public lighting, and believe it is not said that there will be development and development in such a place. It'll be nicer, it'll be more pleasant, but there won't be any development. Development, Mr Sok, is not in the metro asphalt, is not in the sidewalk, development is in other matters. And if the development was in this, then once again, because as I've been driving around the Prekmurje lately, it's very nicely asphalted, but the developmental happened in Prekmurje in fact nothing. Although they now have much more asphalt than they did 10 years ago, many more sidewalks, many more flowers on bridges, but development and development potential did not rise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First, of course, I would point out once again that the numbers that are calculated hold and the numbers are also published. I'd really like to know what they're not holding on to, because otherwise we can't even comment on it, and the numbers are published. That's under one. With regard to the numbers themselves, of course, when the law was written, then the numbers themselves show the situation in Slovenia and the numbers indicate this and this is the embarrassment that we have today, that we have a markedly uneven distribution of financial resources. And even when we talk about urban areas, of course, the law goes in this direction, so that a greater degree of solidarity within the compulsory part of the tasks is also enforced in this part. Which means that all the municipalities are acquiring, but not at Ljubljana's expense, but also at the expense of the additional resources provided, additional resources through the budget rebalancing. Otherwise, in the second part, when we are talking at this time about building land, which, of course, is to be replaced by a new real estate tax in the future, there are significantly greater opportunities for urban areas. This is quite clear that within urban areas, it is possible at this moment, and I agree with that, and that is probably true, it is going to raise more resources from this title, which the municipalities will exclusively, sovereignly, use for their own development in this part. However, this is not the only source of development funds available to the congregations. It is true, but I can agree with you that further progress in the field of polycentric development needs to be halted and where these regional centres will also receive additional opportunities from this title. Let me just illustrate. Although with a developmental hazard index, why do we have such a situation in Slovenia? In Slovenia, if we look at the development threat index and, of course, it is reflected through the funding of municipalities, because, in fact, municipalities are the only carriers of regional development, because we do not have landscapes at the moment. The development threat index at the level of eleven statistical regions, without the central Slovenian region, is 1:2. At the moment when we join these eleven statistical regions another statistical region, this is central Slovenia, and this index jumps 10 times, and of course it speaks very clearly about uneven development, and these things are then repeated, reflected also through this law. And some things that are tanning Ljubljana as the capital - and I absolutely agree and support that the dimension of the capital must be given the capital - but it is necessary to enforce it through the Main City Act. Ljubljana already has a special law, the Law on Local Self-Government, is not a law for the capital, but is a law on the financing of municipalities and applies to the whole of Slovenia. But it is true, and it would also attract, of course, it is not possible to solve the transport problem through this law. Essentially, it is necessary to establish provinces, attract the entire environment as regards Ljubljana from this title, and also through other investment transfer options, investment resources also solve this problem in relation to the wider environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Sok made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my colleague Zalokar Orazem for teaching me that development is not just in asphalt. I know that, too, because I am sure that the sports hall can also be reached after the macadamia. So that's not the problem, but it's hard to develop tourism if you don't have roads, if you have to ask the fire department first to scrape up all the branches so someone can take a bus to a tourist farm. It is, of course, difficult to make a promising tourist offer out of this, and we are dealing with these problems today, Mrs Former Homeland Mayor. These underlying problems need to be initiated. When we do, then we can upgrade it. Now I tell you this: they must be the best profits and the fastest capital is turned in banks, then in shops; in agriculture, which belongs to the countryside, and there is the slowest. And that is why, because we do not have jobs, young people are leaving our home, leaving our elderly parents, and if we get more money through this law, then I am sure that these funds will be invested in faster economic development in the countryside. And then this is probably going to be a development, but no!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In my profound belief, it is not possible to assess the present in real terms unless we consider at least a fraction of the past when considering this amendment to Article 8 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. I would really like to commend Minister Zhagar, who, with his team and/or that he was from the past, when he had sufficient experience, how they live and how the municipalities were financed, where he saw the urgent need at least for a temporary solution until we came to the treatment and establishment of the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states in Article 142 what has been mentioned several times today: "The municipality is financed from its own resources. To municipalities which, due to poor economic development, cannot fully ensure the performance of their tasks, the State shall provide additional resources in accordance with the legally established principles and criteria." This is provided for in Article 142 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I am asked what is wrong with this or what we are violating, what is in violation of the Law on the Financing of the Communities in this context of Article 142 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Hasn't the issue of very coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia been raised several times by today. Minister Žagar made it clear that it is not just a few congregations, but a comparable solution is even, even compared with looking from east to west, from north to south, all of Slovenia and all of the congregations. Today we are talking about our own resources, our own incomes. How that impoverished congregation should be located in the hills of Haloza, but not just one congregation, is a number of congregations that are now working at the threshold of the third millennium to provide public water supply, let alone talk about how road and other basic infrastructure is regulated. In the municipalities of Majšperk, Žetale, Videm, the municipalities of public water supply are today being built, while the Halo municipality of Podlohnnik with the lease of credit in the past has already done so. And how can we today talk about a large number of employees in a congregation and thus, of course, a greater income, our own source of income of the congregation if people literally moved out because there was no basis for people to live in this hilly work. Today to forget that in the past - and this is also on the committee when we discussed the proposed amendments - was clearly said - I think Minister Žagar said that it happened so far that the Ljubljana municipality had the money at its disposal, but it did not spend it, and some municipalities were lagging behind. I say, with this bill on the financing of municipalities, in this article, in this amendment proposed by the coalition, we are correcting these things. I am confident that, in accordance with all the grounds, with everything that actually brings, this amendment today will be voted on and given the opportunity to at least the second level of local self-government, to at least partially remedy things, because, after these envisaged calculations, to the extent that I have been able to review, at least those municipalities that are in some sense the most backward, truly receive and are also in need of a piece of solidarity in this sense. I agree with those who find that basic transport infrastructure for public transport in urban municipalities should be made, I will say, falling behind in some sense, but this is not a matter of this law, these are other sectoral laws that should regulate it. Of course, there is also here when we talk about public transport in the municipalities, a problem that we will have to deal with as soon as possible and to adopt something concrete in this area as soon as possible. In short, I think it is a matter of progress in the sense that the amendment to Article 8 of the Coalition needs to be supported and the green light should be turned on for further procedures, so that those municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia that have fallen behind in the basic infrastructure work in the past will at least recover a little from applying the principle when we say that everyone is at home, of course if they have the basis for survival in that domestic environment. And once again, let me finish with these words. Those in urban flat areas where they have basic infrastructure also have public water supply and those born on a flatbed are, in itself, conditioned to have drinking water, while in some municipalities of Halo we only run public water today, at the threshold of the third millennium. With these corrections, with these amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, hope is also given in this context of progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Thank you. We've closed the second round. I'm opening a third-round application. Check-in is on. Mr. Slavinac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'll try as short as I can, given the limited time. I certainly agree that solidarity must also be taken care of; even more so, I come from areas where this is all the more exposed. However, I would not want this to look like some kind of charity and assistance to areas that are less developed, but I always point out and point out that the whole of Slovenia needs to realize that it is as strong as all its parts are evolving faster, and also this part of which I now have in mind, namely the Pomurje from which I come, and the other less developed areas. How we will come to this solidarity is crucial. And we must not agree in any way that money will be divided on the basis of certain political options and relations between the political option at State level and also at regional level, and will be under the responsibility of individual ministers; of course, I am thinking of investment funds. The regional centres, I warn, are different species, and they are also in less developed regional centres, and it is even more important that we ensure that these regional centres do not lose out. I can be very specific: the Municipality of Murska Sobota will lose 198 million on the basis of the correction factor, it will gain 204 million - the difference is 6 million dollars over the 3 billion budget, so nothing worth mentioning, at the expense of - what? - at the expense of some other environments losing much, much more. I would never agree to the amendments that those in need would take. However, I certainly support this amendment, which does not take on small ones, but ensures that the regional centres I am talking about and that similar ones receive adequate resources and will be able to ensure faster development at the expense of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thanks again for saying that. Well, I would say that the state budget that we will adopt, the 2007 balance, or the 2008 budget, also has some frameworks. And what this amendment suggests means - at least that's how the proponents explained - no, we're not taking anything from anyone, but we're giving it to some. These resources are not available in the 2007 and 2008 budget, so, as I mentioned earlier, I will not support this amendment, in addition to all the other arguments I have mentioned earlier. I'd like to make that clear. When I was talking about the compensation for the use of building land, I certainly did not have urban settlements or city hall centers or the larger ones. I come from a municipality of 3,200 people, which also has its own urban center. And besides, as I mentioned earlier, we are collecting compensation throughout the entire congregation, most of this compensation was collected right in the urban center. Today, however, I wonder how much of the individual household we have collected in the municipal budget, how much, for example, in Kranj, Jesenica, Isol or finally in Ljubljana. I know the load rate was very different. Someone was able to afford it because this is what the municipal council accepts every year, so that the point of compensation was set at the level that it needed. And I mentioned earlier how some municipalities with a lot of financial resources did not need to be burdened by citizens and citizens from this point of view. Not to mention another, even bigger problem is that some rural municipalities have a very well-managed record, some of which - even urban ones - in this area. And a number of households were not burdened at all with compensation for the use of building land, even in the urban part of the settlement. This is what I talked about in the previous debate, so I wanted to explain it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! I did not intend to be involved in today's debate, but some of the discussions only encouraged me to decide to say some of my views. Today's debate by some opposition Members, I must say, has shown that they cannot shake off misleading and demagogic claims that have no bearing on the reality. It is amazing that so uncritical of their words and with such ease they speak of the fact that the law of Ljubljana takes so much and so much money and that Ljubljana will not be able to meet the expectations of the population and will therefore be lagging behind in its development. I must say, such talk is far from the truth, and it means a demagogic flosculo. As the city councilman of Ljubljana, I would like Ljubljana to develop as the capital of our country in order to keep at least one step with some other Slovenian cities, if not to take the lead here. Not that he's been lagging behind them for years and years, not just staggering in his development, but even turning back. And all of this was happening at a time when the current law was in force and according to current critics should be everything in the best order, but it was not; as you can see, despite your opinion of the relevant law, Ljubljana has practically collapsed the relevant legislation. And this was also the main reason for the last elections in Ljubljana to replace the mayor's past and the radical change of power in the city's world. The voters expressed a practical plebiscite of the current Ljubljana political authority, which has brought Ljubljana into such a hopeless position and then sought a solution in a man and his candidate list, which came outside the current circle of political parties within the city's world. In this way, clients who had no influence on decision-making were also indirectly punished, but were only an integral part of the city council and could only warn about irregularities and offer better solutions without hope of success. I don't know how some people can say that this proposed budget is taking something from Ljubljana, but when we know about Ljubljana that Ljubljana has a huge amount of unused budget money at the end of each financial year. And this amount of unused budget money is significantly higher than the proposed law, as claimed by the opposition, to reduce this money for Ljubljana. So essentially more unused money than this is supposed to be a reduction. The actual situation that has been in this area for several years has been similar to that of huge, huge amounts of unused budget money every year. So if this unused money were to include an alleged deficit based on the law currently under consideration, there would be so much more unused money. Are we supposed to support that? It would be optimal for each congregation to have as much money each year as it needs for its development and purpose. And to this end, the proposed law, I believe, is also getting closer. Therefore, I do not understand all those who see only that the law takes something from the capital, but you do not see that Ljubljana has been unable to spend its budget all the time; and the amount of this unused budget is much higher than this supposed reduction. And there's something else that matters. Ljubljana has never and has never benefited from European funding for important projects, even though there are all legal options, both on the basis of our rules and European rules. If Ljubljana were to pay the necessary attention, it would also be possible to get more from this title than allegedly reduced funds under this law. However, no matter what I say, I do not deny the possibility of positive movements in Ljubljana and the new mayor, with his city administration and most in the city council, will do what the citizens expect him to do and for which reason they have chosen him. Even I really want this to happen to myself, and I believe that it is possible, even though I must say that I am still skeptical. In doing so, budget money, contrary to current practice, will also be able to be used effectively for the necessary development and for the necessary development needs. If it is actually radical, so if the newly elected mayor actually radically changes the practice so far and makes up a capable and effective new leadership team in the city administration, it will also be possible to ensure that the budget money remains unused as it has been so far. In this case, I will believe that it will seek and implement the necessary European financial resources to cover the necessary development investments. And if then the budget spending programme, which will also be feasible, goes beyond even such an increased realization, then they are available, as already mentioned in the debate today, the second set out of this law and the second set of other laws that will allow this to happen. In addition, there is the Main City Act, which allows and leads to development cooperation between Ljubljana and the country. This means that both parties will be forced to cooperate in order to fulfil their own interests and to sign appropriate agreements or a letter of intent on the basis of which they will then agree on the financial implementation of such projects. So there is no reason for the fears that you draw on this law and represent people to come true. Moreover, we are already somewhat accustomed to your constant negative forecasts under the financial or tax rules that have not yet been implemented, namely, those forecasts, even the opposite. Instead of your negative forecasts, there have always been positive effects and that is why today's economic and financial situation is extremely favourable, and this is also indicated by all macroeconomic indicators in our country, and I therefore believe that this time too, and your forecasts will also be lied to this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I wanted to say was this about Article 8, which is related to Articles 14, 13, and also to the preceding provision. First of all, given the reduced taxation of citizens, it is said that the insistence on the absolute percentage of the income represents an absolute lower amount, even if it is 37%, which would be precisely obtained by the municipalities. I believe the calculations made by the Minister that, following the correction provided for in Article 14, the calculation of principals on the basis of the appropriate consumption should be close to 50% in absolute terms to the municipalities from such lower income and income. However, I would like to say this if we are talking about solidarity, but let us forget about equitable regional development or within individual regions or landscapes, if you want to develop beyond the very strict centres, that solidarity means that someone gives up some of his income, not to insist on positions, but to give up part of that revenue for the purpose of financing this solidarity. And that to my colleague Gantar. In California, there's a tendency for the economy to move after its employees. Employees are going to live in a more pleasant environment outside city centres, which unfortunately, due to trends that we know in Ljubljana and some other cities, and especially in Ljubljana, when city centres fail and are revived only by tourists, they in particular fall into business with service activities, so that people can move from these less quality environments to the outskirts and come to the city only at cultural and other events. And this trend also needs to be changed in Slovenia, but it is not a matter of this law. The Law on Community Financing is a very small redistribution of money in this form, as proposed, and in fact it now provides the municipalities in a flexible manner with adequate amounts of income from its citizens and citizens. If these calculations are true, and if there is a line behind them, then there is no way I would support such a modified and recast amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the sense of maintaining an old system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. With regard to the amendment to Article 8 of the three groups of Members, I would like to clarify more precisely what is actually going on with the forest road maintenance fee. This is a fee, which, while being taken into account as a source of its own within the appropriate spending, in this new law, I assume that this will probably be a decommissioned resource. Therefore, I would like to explain the status of this fee. For if we look at the text of this amendment, it speaks of these resources becoming their own sources of funding, which means that the congregation can, in fact, allocate these funds itself. And I think it will be very embarrassing if we define dedicated resources, such as the forest road maintenance fee, as resources that you can then freely distribute. I would like to explain what is happening to this fee in this new law and what the connection is to this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Thank you. Does the minister want to answer right away or later? Okay. Mr. Rop has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Since I have relatively little time, once again, despite the fact that it is obvious that the interest of Members and Members is very small for this law, despite the fact that I am extremely surprised that Members elected in Ljubljana are not even here today. Today, many in many parties support the fact that Ljubljana will be affected by what will happen - the funds will fall by 8 billion. I just want to give you a heads-up. [[End warning sign]] , financial compensation shall not be paid for municipalities where there are approximately 800,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. All of these are now being taken. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Minister with coworkers, respectable colleagues! I cannot really support this amendment for a simple reason, because I feel that this amendment undermines the concept that the new Law on Community Financing seeks to implement. Last but not least, if we supported this amendment, I am sure that the goals that this law is intended to achieve could not be achieved. The fact is - and this, in fact, seems most important to me in this new law - that this proposal for a new Law on the Financing of Municipalities eliminates the great imbalance between the municipality's own incomes. That seems essential to me. Finally, those who oppose this law find that a new Law on the Financing of the Congregations is needed. And I am sure that Mr Minister and his co-workers have, however, prepared a bill on the financing of municipalities, which eliminates in any way the great imbalances that I have talked about before, and I think we should just welcome this law. For we need to know that in view of the diverse development of the congregations, we know that our congregations are very different with their specifics and, finally, the distance from the centers causes an uneven distribution of income from income. I don’t think that this is why we can’t talk about how our congregations have so far been particularly developmental. However, I am convinced that this new law also brings about some stimulating developmental attitude in these congregations. See, the law certainly ensures greater financial autonomy and greater financial autonomy, and I am still convinced of this, despite the fact that, on the labour market and not least today, opponents of this law are speaking the opposite. I think it's perfectly logical that more financial means will in any case allow greater autonomy, greater autonomy, less dependence on credit and so on. There's something else I think is important about this marriage. This law takes greater account of the specificities and specificities of individual congregations. On the basis of this law, it is true that four municipalities of 210, including the capital, lose certain financial resources. I was sure that the main debate would be about this. However, we did not ask ourselves whether the funds received by the capital city of Ljubljana, which it is currently losing, were previously fairly distributed. I am sure that they were not, given what I have heard even from the city councillors, that the money in Ljubljana's account remains unused, I have not heard it for the first time today, I have heard it many times in these days. That is why I do not agree with the obvious that we are going to anti-urban policy. Look, we don't just have an urban settlement Ljubljana, we have a lot of other urban settlements, but they also get additional resources on the basis of this law, which is true for Maribor, Celje, Kranj, not to mention other cities. When we speak of Ljubljana as has already been said, we have also heard information that the Main City Act, which is supposed to specify the whole set of tasks that some should have included in this law, is in fact adopted, and unfortunately does not somehow come to life. I reiterate that this amendment is, in fact, very important, but this amendment is, in fact, one that undermines the concept of this law, so I cannot support this amendment. Once again, congratulations to the minister and the co-workers who have been bitten have finally been bitten into this sour apple and in fact prepared a law that I do not claim to be optimal, but I am convinced that it is certainly better and certainly a financial asset that has been distributed substantially more evenly across Slovenia and significantly more to help decentralise our country than it was the previous law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. It has been more than 3 hours, or just under 3 hours, and this 3 hour discussion has been devoted to Ljubljana. A few minutes ago, we had the opportunity to hear a discussion, some kind of political statement that the coalition hired to discuss in Ljubljana, is about an official who sits on a magistrate for 16 years and knows a lot of things today. A year and a half ago, he criticised the mayor of Ljubljana for his loss, today he is discussing whiskey. Therefore, once again, as I have done at the previous hearing as an MEP from Ljubljana, I will say once again, if the coalition had the will, then I would have accepted my amendment, the provisional amendment, until we have regulated the implementation of the Ljubljana City Act and taken nothing away from anyone. Once again, Ljubljana does not have any surpluses at this income, it does not have any extra surpluses to be deducted and given to someone else. Our starting point in all the discussions so far, on the Law on the Financing of the Communities, was that the municipalities in the global integrated budget were too small to finance all the obligations arising from the Law on Local Self-Government and that this needs to be increased. By this law, of course, we went to the option of redistributing these funds. Therefore, in the case of Ljubljana, which is receiving funds from the proposed law, 4 or 8 billion, it is difficult to talk again about surpluses as this argument has always been used. It's simply a legal cessium. I will use an even sharper term for the legal marriage theft of money, which, of course, is collected by Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans for their quality of life in Ljubljana. Numbers, I'll only give you three, because you're all talking about municipalities in Slovenia, I'll give you three more numbers, only three. Every day, 100,000 cars arrive in Ljubljana, migration, transport axis in Ljubljana, 100,000 cars. Every day, he brings from nearby congregations or from somewhere else about two to 2300 children into kindergartens. Even in Ljubljana there are still more than 200 kilometres of macadamian roads, which are not asphalted, but I am not working out of this problem at this moment, given this law. So there's a lot of things that aren't exactly in the capital when you're talking about how things are supposed to be arranged, they're still not arranged. And the full burden on all these three things that I have told you is, of course, on the budget of the city of Ljubljana. Therefore, it is simply unacceptable to speak in such a way, and it is only an excuse, to those who come, is just an excuse justifying the withdrawal of funds to Ljubljana, since these funds are supposed to be returned through certain laws, to be returned by the law of functioning, by the Law on the City of Ljubljana. I'm asking the government, I'm asking the minister, I'm asking the minister, and who is the one who needs to put this Ljubljana City Act into practice? Who's that? I have already suggested the previous time why you did not come in parallel with the Ljubljana City Act, where you would also finance the towns of Ljubljana, and you were all deaf and still have the same text you are regulating here. [[...]] Can I just get to the end? What you're saying, one part and how we can otherwise provide funding for individual projects and so on, I will not talk about political compatibility and these matters, because here we have enough experience, much of the work so far from various coalitions, not just this coalition, which is now, how these things are served; even now that we have the 2007 and 2008 budget. In short, my point, once again, is what I said at the first reading, if resources for the functioning of the municipality as a local community were dependent on the trends in economic development, the creation of new jobs, and in this way additional resources would be shared with those municipalities that do not have this development potential at the moment, then the picture would be different. Now this is in some way, as has been said today, why should we try in idyllic sleeping environments, where there is no pollution of industry, etc., that I do not list all these things. Why should we strive for some kind of developmental momentum, because what they need for the normal functioning of the community as a local community will be brought to a standstill and, finally, they will get from those who create in these other environments where this developmental trend is in motion. Once again and for rationality, the minister said twice today, regarding the rationality of spending, I will give you only one, paid by the Secretary of the Municipality of Destrnik - nine hundred thousand gross SIT in September! And answer me about the rationality of spending money, and we will not only talk about Ljubljana, but we will also talk about those small municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. They only concluded the third round of the debate. There's still the minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I still owe you some answers. With regard to some of the questions raised, I would like to answer together that a careful and full view of the law is necessary, always reading all the articles. So, for example, in the case of the Sabbath, we cannot compare the proper consumption according to the old law, but according to the new law, because it is not the same thing, but it is a different matter and the whole marriage is to be read. The net purchase of this law, of course even under legal funding, means an additional 200 million for the Sobota of Mursko, rather than counting down what is not, because the whole law needs to be read. And the tables, once again, I stress which have been made and published, which you know, are fully held. So then it's pure deception. With regard to the question of Mr Janko Vebra, the fees are not in this part and are an independent source of funding, so that the municipalities have sovereign resources. Of course, if there are sectoral laws, then intentionally, as regulated by sectoral legislation, but they are not within the scope of consumption. In particular, I would like to point out when we talk about this, that even during a transitional period it is not within the appropriate consumption. Internally suitable spending during the transitional period is a substitute for building land at comparable levels to that of the past and taxes under Article 21 gradually withdrawing and, in the full implementation of this law, an image for Ljubljana will be practically identical in this management system, if I say so. Now I have to remind you again of the following. Once again, I reiterate that the law in the two segments regulates matters. In one segment, more equitable funding, where it spends an average amount of resources on municipalities, and within these funds can also be added to the rational management of municipalities and allocate some of the resources for development itself. Which means that this is completely different than it has been since we had the majority of the municipalities, including the Murska Sobota, on a level playing field and then the actual municipalities could have acted in this sense, unless they had provided some of their own resources, such as building land and some other charges, but they got so much compensation and actually there was no economic way of thinking. Now the story is the other way around. Now, even in this context, the municipalities manage their own resources for the purposes of saving, but they can also use this part of the funds for development. And in the second part, once again, they devote a whole portion of these other resources to development moments, both under Article 21 of the old Tax Income Act and also all other taxes, fees and also compensation, after the law has, of course, been fully enforced. The transitional period was also necessary due to the incorporation of the law into the public financial capacity and the public financial framework. Some of the questions raised here, if one municipality actually covers certain costs for other municipalities, are impossible or should not be so, since each municipality is responsible for its population, even for its children, to cover the costs even if it has them in the neighbouring congregation. That is the case, and I can tell you from practice, because, among other things, I was the mayor of one congregation for 10 years. And from this title there can be no additional burden, not Ljubljana, this is very principled and this applies in all or in most other areas. However, I agree - I can take what I have already said today - that some problems will not only be solved in this segment, but will also be necessary in terms of the provincial legislation as well as the possibility of solving some problems, such as the typical transport problem, here I fully agree with you, also as regards the capital. As regards the implementation of the Capital Law, there are two partners in this story. On the one hand - in my opinion, even though we are not directly responsible for this law - the government has actively led, forwarded certain proposals and I do not know what the responses were, I only know what our service is supposed to cover local self-government. Practically there has never been any expressed will and desire for any contact. And maybe two more, three sentences, as far as this amendment is concerned, I really need to warn all Members and Members of Parliament. If the proposal of this amendment, which was tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group, is to break the comprehensive concept of this law, we must be aware of this, so it is not possible to directly compare the old funding system, because the complex concept of this law is being broken and the need to reform the whole law in practice and we have gone beyond this concept, which speaks of the equal provision of resources for comparable living conditions for all our citizens, no matter where they live in Slovenia. And that's important. A man must also be put at the forefront. Within the existing public financial framework, this would essentially mean a reduction in funds for other municipalities, in fact for the majority of municipalities. Last but not least, if this law is not adopted, then we must also say that in this case, all those municipalities that are not on balance will lose as much as a few billion revenue on the basis of adopted income legislation and in fact in this case the revenue of the municipalities will be reduced in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 8? Mr. Davorin Targeton, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Excuse me. You've already spent your time, so I'm warning you, you can't. Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to explain. The last three years or two years have been an intensive initiative on the side of the past mayors of Ljubljana. It only came into contact with the Government that the working groups had been set up, but nothing had happened, despite its insistence. And another question. As I mentioned earlier, there are 100,000 migrant cars in Ljubljana. After all, Ljubljana could adopt a London-based decree, as the mayor of London did, to charge these migration cars 50 euros a day and I think that in the future this road infrastructure and everything else would be well arranged, parking in Ljubljana. Or, on the other hand, reduce environmental pollution. But this is one way. But again, my question is whether, of course, this comes into that integral number again, and again, it will be taken away from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Once again, with regard to these taxes and levies. All taxes, such as taxes, are essentially the congregation’s own revenue in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 8. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 14, which is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Commence application. Mr. Bojan Kontic, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. There have been many amendments tabled by Members of the Social Democrats in the procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. All I can tell you is that none of them got the required majority on their parent's working body. In view of the fact that only a certain article was adopted on the home working body and that only the amendments of the government coalition were adopted, the articles to which we have tabled the amendments remain closed and cannot be tabled or debated. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the open article, Article 14, which replaces Article 14, paragraph 3. This third paragraph of Article 14 speaks of if I quote: "...if the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article is more than 15% higher than the estimated appropriate consumption of the municipality, the surplus above 15% shall be reduced by 50%." This means, of course, that those who could have more will not have that, because we are going to reduce by 50%. I do not think it is necessary for this paragraph to be released from this Article and thus allow those municipalities which have the desire to receive more resources in the budget and therefore also what they do on the income side to keep these funds to these municipalities. More detail will be given about the text of the article or amendment that we tabled, probably the colleague Weber, who has been reported next, because we want to increase by 10%. We are aware of this that it would be more appropriate to regulate this in an appropriate way. But it is probably also a solution, because the adoption of this amendment would leave the article open in the third reading and together we could also consider this proposal with the minister once again and perhaps draw up a proposal that would be acceptable. We wanted the capital of Ljubljana, the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, not to receive such a scrupulous intervention in funding, of course with the amendments we tried to prevent this matter, but in this process we were not successful. But I should still be allowed to say that when we talk about the lack of initiative on the part of the city authorities in recent years, let me say that the Main City Act has been adopted by this National Assembly because we are talking about the law. When we talk about the law, it is necessary to say that in this country we have an executive branch of power, which is still important or committed to the implementation of the laws adopted by the National Assembly, so we could expect a legitimate initiative from this side. However, it is true that it takes two people to talk to you, and I hope that you will be able to find consensus in the coming period, and this time may be your initiative to bring the Capital Law to life. It also states that the President of the Government is the one who has to stand up for this. When we talk about the autonomy of sources of funding, it is very important that we are autonomous in local communities also on the income side, not just on the expenditure side. It is true that we have an integrated budget and that we allocate resources ourselves. It is also true that certain financial obligations are already prescribed by law and that the funds are further divided and that the congregation is essentially just some kind of legal person who redistributes these funds in accordance with the law. Then there is a small portion of the funds left to the congregation for funding. This is not to be overlooked by the European Charter on Local Self-Government and Article 9, which states that local authorities within the framework of national economic policy are entitled to adequate own financial resources with which they freely have their powers. It is also questionable whether we can reach out so drastically to the field of investment already in the coming year. Some municipalities, including the Municipality of Ljubljana, and probably all the others that are taking part of the funds, have planned, planned, also concluded certain contracts, now their funds are falling, so it was our desire to gradually reduce this impact of the new Law on the Financing of the Communities, but unfortunately we were not successful in doing so. If each individual coming from his own environment, for example, tells Velenje that, for example, the Municipality of Velenje will receive an additional one with this new law, I think, 360 million tolars. This is a fine sum, and on the basis of this sum alone, of course every Member should defend this law. However, we are not quite sure how much this calculation holds and what this means for the next four years. In the Community, the municipalities of Slovenia have been asked to make a calculation for the next four years. I know that it is very difficult to anticipate ahead decisions in the National Assembly, but, of course, before that, in the Government, what will be the amount of funds. It was much easier, of course, when we knew how much income went into the budget of local communities and how much income went into the state budget. The amendment we have at this time allows us to really think together about whether anything else can be changed in this area by the third reading. Above all, it is important that we be able to see in the future that the share of gross domestic product intended for local self-government is increasing for local communities. I am aware of the Minister's announcement that by introducing the provinces we will transfer a certain number of billions of dollars from the state budget to the provincial level and that this will bring us closer to 10% and that this will make us somewhat comparable to the other countries of the European Union. Of course, at this point, I would like not only to think about a solution at the country level, but also to consider allowing the contribution of a larger share of the gross domestic product of the social product to be made available to local communities at the first level, i.e. municipalities, to have more resources available, more own resources that could be allocated to development.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. With this amendment, we have indeed tried to draw attention to a problem that is not adequately addressed in this law, given the article that has been opened. This is the financing of those municipalities where ethnic Roma communities are also located. Article 20 of this Act, however, refers to the provision of funds, height and the purpose of the use of funds for the exercise of certain rights of Roma communities by law. The height and purpose of the Regulation shall be determined by the Government. Thus, in fact, the congregation will not have the opportunity to create an obvious policy of solving this problem. Moreover, this law refers to the treatment of municipalities in which the Roma ethnic community is inhabited. That is why we wanted to point out with our amendment that article 101a of the Law on Local Self-Government was adopted, which listed precisely the 20 municipalities in which the ethnic Roma community lives. Whether this law applies to these congregations, or whether it refers to others who did not then want to admit that they live with them and that they come to this 101st article. This is one of the questions that I think remains very unclear and, above all, I will say "no fair" to those municipalities that are listed in article 101a of the Law on Local Self-Government. It also seems to me that, in practice, we can also today monitor inappropriate access or approach to solving this problem when it comes to solving only Roma families, only Roma cases, and, in fact, forget the rest of the population. It is certainly not good for us to share these sources of funding in this way, as foreseen in this law, because the congregation must function as a whole. And if, as a whole, you regulate the communal furnishing of settlements and all the other tasks you need to reduce these developmental differences between the Roma community and the rest of the population, of course, it is necessary to have significantly more resources to do so, and the appropriate consumption needs to be significantly higher in these communities, not the same as others, which does not take into account the presence of the Roma ethnic community at all. This amendment, however, refers to the fact that unfortunately only an article on principal has been opened to raise the principal by 10%, so if this amendment were adopted, I would like to ask the applicant to find a solution, so that this article can also define whether it is both appropriate spending and principality and then, in the final version of the third reading, define a 10% increase in appropriate consumption, not principality. Most of these communities, which have an ethnic Roma community, receive financial compensation. Only some municipalities or very few, will be possible among the 20 that are written down, which would mean that they exceed or achieve proper consumption with their own income and then do not reduce their financial compensation. Thus, it would also be necessary to discuss honestly whether the applicant has found solutions for those congregations where these ethical communities live in a way that can be successfully solved by the congregations. I would like to point out that only by addressing the rights of the Roma community will this solution not be effective and will remain even more open than it is today. I think we should really make a lot more effort even now at this stage, to try to reshape this article in a way that makes it possible to increase the appropriate consumption rather than the principality as currently set out in this amendment. But the amendment is only tabled because this article is open in such a form and we would like to agree on a final solution in the third reading with the applicant, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I think I owe you some answers. As far as this amendment is concerned, the concept of the whole law is being broken, because it is also broader and has consequences within the public financial framework. With regard to solving the problem of the Roma, which you have highlighted, I would point out that right now there is a special law that should have been drawn up for 15 years. And I would suggest that all the solutions to this work are really being saved within this law in the complete story. In my view, this law will be adopted relatively quickly, in the Government at this time, intensive inter-sectoral coordination is taking place, and will come to the National Assembly for adoption. But it is true that I agree with you that for 15 years there has been no political will to prepare and adopt this law. Perhaps there are only two other matters related to the previous debate. As regards the gross product allocated to the municipalities, it is true that when we watched over the years that the trend was negative, which has now been halted by the adoption of this law, because in the past period when the municipalities received many tasks, even the trend was negative, the funds allocated to the municipalities. Also a negative trend from the level of gross product. And radical change actually means and is comparable to other European countries and then the final implementation of the provinces according to the baselines that are ready. I would also like to mention that, as far as the area of funding for the tasks of the municipalities is concerned, I also partly agree with what has been said that a large part of other legislation interferes with this area and that solutions are also being sought under other specific laws, which would regulate certain matters in a way that would also lead to the burden of the municipalities on the expenditure side, such as having already been done or trying to change the Social Protection Act, which deals with the regulation of home aid. This is how many other changes and changes are being prepared, and this National Assembly will also face these issues, and in this way also in some way it provides assistance to municipalities in terms of reducing burdens and, last but not least, in general reducing burdens on public financial burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The headship in this law, as proposed, is truly too small and particularly destructive for small congregations, we all know. And these small congregations, which do not have their own funding source, can be financed solely from two, three laws that, if they are lucky, they can get some money on the income side. This is a tax on gambling, the part that belongs to the municipalities, of course, if there are casinos there, then it's a municipal contribution and a tax on building land. And, look, right on those last two, they're breaking the spears for the citizens again. If there is no money in the budget, the municipalities charge large municipal contributions or, since this part of the tax on uncharted buildings is flexible, they impose large taxes on uncharted building land. And that's why I think it makes sense for this amendment that was proposed. I would not associate this with the Roma communities. You know, the Law on the Roma Community was already in the National Assembly, a respected minister, if you've forgotten, proposed by the Slovenian National Party, and was labeled xenophobic. And what's happening today is because you didn't want to accept it. He had five articles and one of the central articles was that the Roma communities or representatives of the Roma communities are equal before the law and the Constitution, that is, they are also subject to the acquisition of a building permit, respect for the law, both from social protection, and the actual care of children, because we know that rape, paedophilia and early marriages are happening there today, and social care does not take action to avoid talking about the places and crime in these communities. The country has made a perfect breakthrough here and essentially tolerates everything that we citizens are not allowed to do. And that's what the government knows, that's what the President of the Government knows, and today is just the result of what we've been sowing -- we're reaping what's actually grown. And also saving one family with the excuse that it is a Romani community, and we know that this family is living in Postojna today and is exclusively prone to crime, places and not to say anything else, is not a Roma problem [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Mr. Friend, Article 8!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Just as much as a replica to the Minister. But there's something else I'd like to say. Look, we are blinded to make the new law better for the congregations. It won't get any better. Because if we give them the opportunity to finance themselves under these taxes, which can be collected in the municipal treasury only by taxes on real estate and taxes on sales or shipping, then we know that this is a bill of lading for the municipal budget. And the creation of landscapes, where additional funding is foreseen for around 370 to 380 billion, is a question of how they will be divided. You know, I don't believe in honesty, that's what turned out today when Mr Rob talked about Ljubljana, about how fate came about. I believe that those left - handed congregations will be quickly forgotten, if I may say so, such as Sežana, Koper, Izola and so on. But a little more will be sued for those in whom you have, I will say my majority rule, financially, I mean, supported. And this will be inconsistent regional development. If that happens, it'll be you, your honor's minister. And we need to be aware of what we're getting into. I would be very precise here, and a little honesty wouldn't hurt either, and I warn you that we can do very big wrongs if we take on "ad hoc" something that, of course, for small ones who, anyway, will get even less after this law, will not actually be comfortable. In fact, it would also be very careful to ensure equal rights for those municipalities that do not have any gross social product in the municipality, in other words, that they do not have any large production from which they could draw on an appropriate tax field or from which they could be collected into the municipal budget. This amendment makes sense to me. And, just as it has been heard today, rejecting all the well-intentioned remarks made through the amendments is not going to work. I think there were some amendments that were good and you turned them down. But practice will show, you know, it's two more years before your mandate expires, if this turns out to be bad, then don't talk to anyone else. What you are doing is likely to be adopted and will be very, very bad for those who are barely coming from the beginning of the year to the end with their budget. I'd be very careful about what's going on in this area. Once again, I stress that you are making injustices, especially injustices to small ones, as always of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Pardonon has the floor, if you would like a word, Mr Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Just two items. I'd actually lean on your words. You said you wanted the same level of rights, and that's exactly what we're doing with this law. This law substantially aligns rights for all citizens and citizens, regardless of where they live in Slovenia, through the provision of rights under the title of the tasks to be performed by the municipalities. That is exactly what we do for these citizens and citizens. And just as you mentioned, small congregations receive more funds from this title. I don't agree with that. I say that we are implementing a balanced system of funding in which there are so few, medium and large municipalities. On the other hand, objections are in the opposite direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much. It is true that all Slovene municipalities deal with a particular development problem, or we can say that each congregation has its own specifics. With regard to this proposed amendment, which somehow relates to a specific specification. I certainly do not accept this explanation, on the basis that some of the municipalities listed below already have prepared budgets for 2007 or so-called NRPJ for the period 2007-2010. I would say that the new law will make this budget easier for the NRP for the next four years. This brings, especially for these congregations, a new law, since it brings more financial resources to these congregations. And if this law, as the proponent suggests, were to solve this problem, then perhaps there would be a number of other congregations and suggest that, on the basis of some other requirements or needs, those congregations should be increased by 10%. I also agree with the Minister that we know this issue, and I expect that we will, too, solve this problem ourselves by means of an adopted law on Roma communities. Look, there's no argument, there's no point in holding this argument that you're trying to convince us to support this amendment, and yet, at least I've understood that this article is simply to open up so that you can find a solution for these municipalities, which are listed in the 101st article in which the Roma communities live. We will not support this amendment in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Thank you. The Minister had not previously replied to me about how they would define the congregations in which ethnic Roma communities live. Whether Article 101a of the Law on Local Self-Government is or is there any other criterion, because I do not know any other criterion. I would also like to point out that, if we are to talk about a Roma law that we do not yet have in the procedure, I do not know it, I do not know what it says, but we are adopting a budget for 2007, 2008 and I do not know if there are resources in this budget for the implementation of the Law on the Roma Community. Again, if only measures are implemented within the Roma community and will not be followed by the needs of the place or congregation as a whole, then we will face very difficult situations and new conflicts. That's what I'm warning you. Therefore, the Law on the financing of municipalities, which is the umbrella of the Law on the financing of municipalities, and the municipalities are also set out in the Law on Local Self-Government, and the decision of the National Assembly was taken in 2003 to provide these municipalities with additional funds from the budget. This was a concrete conclusion of the National Assembly, which has not yet been realized, and we are also facing a problem as acute as it has been in this recent period. I believe that it is really necessary to put more effort into this law and to bring about a solution for a truly organised approach and for a systemic solution in all these municipalities where ethical communities live, but not to try to reach final solutions through some vague proposals for all the other inhabitants. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Law on Spatial Planning does not even know the concept of a Roma settlement. This concept in our legislation is not defined at all, it does not exist. We can communally equip settlements and equip them on the basis of the definitions we have in the financing of the municipalities, but it is not defined in any law as the concept of a Roma settlement. And under the same criteria, we're going to have to communally equip these settlements as all the rest. That's the problem I'm alerting you to. It is for this reason that more resources are needed for the municipalities to bring water themselves through existing regulations, to arrange all that is needed in these settlements, and to make sure that the development of other places in the congregation is not lagging behind. I hope that, through these discussions, we will come to more knowledge that this problem exists in Slovenia and that we will not be looking for solutions like those that have been drawn so far, which have actually brought more problems and led to the point that, in fact, solutions are no longer possible to negotiate with people.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Let me first remind colleagues and colleagues, especially those who were not in the previous term in the National Assembly, that this National Assembly took a full three-year period to adopt the Law on the Capital City of Ljubljana, and that we had a lot of debate on whether or not to adopt the law, that every time it was necessary for the Government to reduce specific obligations and that, in fact, the law remained over, except for the principle provisions, very empty in its contents, because there was no willingness to make it concrete. I can argue this because I was the first to sign this law, and I also worked very hard with the then government to accept it and not have it myself, I would say, the most open-ended deadlines until the adoption of the law. Second. I in Ljubljana asked myself, were given initiatives, were given to the President of the Government, Mr Minister, and normally I think the President of the Government knew who the ministries were to engage to find common languages and find solutions when regulating relations in Ljubljana. That wasn't there. Whether this is the fault of the President of the Government or something else, I do not want to judge, because I do not know, but you have not been given any initiative because you are not the basic vehicle for the implementation of the agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana under this law. However, I am sure that you have been informed of this, unless the President of the Government considered that this was such a irrelevant issue, regulating relations with Ljubljana, that he did not put the letter in a basket. Third. I would like to point out, just as my colleague Kontič did, that we have proposed that one of the amendments we have proposed should be by advising the Ministry and you, the coalition Members, to allow the progress of the implementation of this law in its entirety, not just for Ljubljana and not just for those four municipalities that the Minister should believe in them, and perhaps if the Ministry did so, it is normal for many others to believe them. They are not believed by the Community of Congregations, and they say they are not determined enough. We have listened at the first reading of the position of some Members, who have been very thorough in their time with local self-government, who have been talking about getting as little funds as possible from more than four congregations, there was a talk about the 1970s. In short, since this is a matter of uncertainty, we have proposed that the implementation of the law be gradually enforced for all municipalities. For all the congregations, the funds should be calculated according to the old and the new law according to its validity. And where smaller funds are involved, these funds should gradually be taken, from 20 to 100%, in order to fully implement the new law in five years. If that was blasphemous, I must say I don't understand. I don't understand that you weren't in your mother's working body, but especially that the Minister wasn't willing to accept it, because this would otherwise be a job, but probably not so terrible, but a guarantee for the implementation of the law that no one could say that in five years, a whole new funding system cannot be adapted, even if it has long-term investments in which accounts for the funding system under the current law and for more resources than in the future. Let me put it this way. Today, we had a very interesting debate in the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, as many questions have also been raised regarding the situation of Roma. By the way, it was very clear that we have over 70 Roma settlements, which are not properly arranged and equipped, and that we would need about 700 million tolars if we were to definitely arrange it. Additional funds are therefore necessary under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Once again with regard to regulating relations between the Government and the capital. I have information because the working group works that a request for a municipal municipality has been sent from the working group. In any case, of course, we have a law. You have accepted it in the National Assembly in the previous term and it is now necessary to implement it. And in principle, once again, the funds under this heading, from the first part when we talk about equal financing of tasks, are not covered by the principle of investment in these funds, but within rational use of these funds, the municipality can also provide funds for a certain developmental part of this area. Finally, they are taken into account here when we calculated the average, but the development tasks are taken into account, for example, in the general development of the economy and agriculture, but also in some other parts, but not in this part of the net investment, and as far as investment is concerned, the open field is in different areas, not least from a substantially increased volume of structural funds in the next period. I only hope and believe that Ljubljana, like many other cities, will prepare projects to the extent that they can be implemented immediately. These funds are already planned in the budget or in the amending budget for 2007 and also in the budget for 2008 and I do not see any problems with the realisation of investments under this heading. As far as calculation is concerned. Once again, I repeat that the calculations have been published, forwarded, and I am reaching out to the General Assembly to oppose, and I do not agree with these accounts, I do not, I do not know. We must say that this law is governed by 210 congregations if we are to be completely honest. I have contacted many mayors and there have been no such questions, especially since the calculations have been published. If anything is wrong with what I always allow, it is always wrong, then it is necessary to specify exactly where the error is made and where the calculations are wrong, because otherwise it is not possible to just talk about it. And that's why we've always been open, we've always been, and these things have been, and in our service and in the Ministry of Finance, we've checked many times, not least because we've done a lot of analyses and simulations, what individual factors mean in the calculations themselves, such an appropriate spending and later also the principals. Now perhaps the issue that is related to the issue you have set up is addressing the financing of the Roma communities. I would point out once again that it makes sense for all these issues to be resolved in one comprehensive solution within the Roma law, which is currently in preparation, because then we really have the whole issue on our hands, we have a full view of what is happening. At the moment, however, the dedicated additional resources provided for in this Title, in accordance with existing legislation, have already been allocated to individual municipalities, a number of which have already been implemented in the past, and also in this year, this programme will continue and will continue in the coming period. It is true, however, that these funds are dispersed across many ministries, so that in our service, we have the resources set out in this title to regulate municipal infrastructure for such settlements. I see no point, even because of the concept of the law itself, in order to specifically incorporate these things into this law, because things are flowing and would break the concept again or make one exception that is not even necessary in my opinion and would thus open the field for many other exceptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 14. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of Article 44 of the Social Democrats Group. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr Bevk only applied, but the time of his parliamentary group has passed. If there is no further debater, I shall conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 44. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the first item of the agenda or at the latest tomorrow at 1.25. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excise, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Shirtzel, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on excise duties reduces the administrative burden on electricity market participants and reduces the excise duty on the commercial use of electricity. The terms and conditions of operation of all biofuel traders shall be equal. Procedures for farmers, small wine growers and excise duties are being simplified and the fines will be converted to euro. In view of the nature of the electricity trade, the proposal introduces simplification of excise control over the movement of this product compared to the movement of other excise products and specifies the taxpayers for the payment of excise duty. The proposal for an electricity law allows movement without an accompanying excise document and the taxpayers for excise duty are only those suppliers and producers who supply electricity to final consumers. In this way, the administrative burdens of electricity market participants are substantially reduced. The applicable Excise Act, which entered into force on 1 May 2004, provides for the implementation of a provision from 1.1.2007 which provides that a excise duty on electricity shall be fixed at 1 euro per megawatt hour, irrespective of whether electricity is used for household or business purposes. In fact, this is what the current law provides for. In accordance with the European Union Electricity Directive, the amendment of the law retains a excise duty of 1 euro for non-business use, as provided for in the 2004 law already in force, and a lower amount of 0.5 euros per megawatt hour is fixed for commercial use. In fact, this allows the directive to reduce excise duty by EUR 0.5 per megawatt hour, which is permitted by the European Directive, compared to the current regulation, when it applies to both business and non-business use of EUR 1 per megawatt. This is also done in order to minimise the impact of this excise duty laid down by European rules on price increases. This would actually mean, if we were talking about an electricity bill of EUR 10 000 and if the whole excise duty were transferred to the price of electricity, then this account would increase or increase by 152 tolars. Biofuels used for propulsion will be classified by means of a bill as excise products not exempted from excise control and still treated in the same way as other propellant fuels. This, of course, does not mean that for pure 100% biofuels excise duty is charged, but it is only that the customs authority is given the opportunity to control the production and movement of biofuels, which has not been possible for the customs authority so far. At the same time, the law allows for the equalisation of operations or the possibility of applying a reduction in excise duty to all operators placing on the market a mixture of biofuels with fossil fuels, regardless of whether they mix biofuels with fossil fuels in Slovenia, another Member State of the European Union or in a third country. Changes related to small wine producers bring administrative relief because, as long as the excise duty on wine is EUR 0, it is not necessary to propose the calculation of excise duty. For the debtors entered in the register of producers of grapes and wines, the reporting shall be simplified, namely, the production, own consumption and household members shall not be required, but shall be withdrawn from the register by the customs authority after the use of the duty. Your Honor! The Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. At its 22nd meeting, on 9.11.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the excise law. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its meeting on 6.10.2006 that the proposed law should be dealt with in a reduced procedure. We have received opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service with comments on a certain article which was mainly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition, except for Article 7, which was amended later and the timing of the formation of the excise duty, which was the most controversial. Within the deadline of business, amendments to the proposed law were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners. As I have already said, the most debate on the Committee itself took place under Article 6, which had previously set the point of excise duty when the goods were dispatched. It was written in the bill that this moment occurs when such a product is produced, and later, because this may be a time that is undefined, we have determined then and with the amendment we have completed this moment of production and then a excise obligation arises. Then there was some discussion about what this new law entails in the context of a greater burden on excise duties. In fact, in the next period, they will only comply with the European requirements for excise duty on cigarettes which will increase slightly. However, a law on electricity taxation had already been adopted. Such solutions, as proposed, were already adopted in 2004. I say it brings a slight extra burden. The calculation we got was that when we paid for the electricity, 5,000 tolars would be 76 tolars. The Committee has adopted amendments that have corrected the bill and here we submit to the National Assembly a complementary proposal for legislation and we propose that it be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed proposal for a law on changes and additions to the excise law, which has been sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, which we are considering following a reduced procedure. These are less complex changes that relate to or are mainly necessary for the introduction of the euro, in order to comply with other rules, such a provision is the Law on Offences and also certain Directives of the European Union, and in order to adapt the taxation of electricity and certain other excise goods. Given that the law has already been presented in detail, I would not repeat these things too many times, but I might point out once again some changes that seem important to us. The first is the introduction of a excise duty on electricity. This is due to Slovenia's taking over the European Directive 2003/96 as of 1 May 2004, which includes electricity among excise goods. But so far, the rate of this excise duty has been zero. As this transitional period expires from 1.1.2007, however, it is necessary to regulate the law in the same way as the applicant did after 1.1.2007, as already stated, 1 euro per megahour. We are convinced that this does not fill the budget, as some say, that this does not try to make up for the shortfall because we have reduced income, but is simply a consequence of adapting to European directives. What is important is that the taxpayers will pay those suppliers who supply energy to the final customers. Since this excise duty will also be reflected in the final price for households, it can be said that this is a small one, perhaps a 10-tolerance price increase, which simply cannot be avoided by adapting the Directive already mentioned. I would also like to stress the important simplification for small wine producers, which is shown in the absence of the need to propose a excise duty calculation. However, for those who are registered in the register, this will be done on an official basis, so that they too will be burdened by some of these procedures, which is all in terms of the government's and coalition's commitments to promote a more friendly administration. Maybe biofuels. There will be no excise duty here, but with this included in the system of excise duty, less possible fraud and full compliance with the directive already mentioned in the introduction. For all this we will also support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan M. Cwickl, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Excise. The reason is that this law significantly increases the taxation of all Slovenians and Slovenes with excise duties. Let's take a look at some data. In 2005, all excise revenue was EUR 230 billion. In 2006 - 234 billion tolars, and in 2007 the government is forecasting more than 32 billion in 2007 as a result of the amendment of this law, that is to say, 268 billion tolars. This is the information that will accompany us in this afternoon's debate when we adopt proposals for amending the 2007 budget. In order to be able to finance a tax gift in order to finance an unsecured 2007 budget, it is also necessary to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duties before this afternoon begins. You're all here saying that this law will have no effect. The question of how the effects are measured. The government itself said that at 5,000 tolls of monthly energy consumption would be an additional burden of 76 tolars. At the annual level of average consumption, if anyone else is heated with energy between 10 and 15,000 tolars, this means an additional 12 euros, an additional 3,000 tolars of costs incurred by families due to higher energy taxation. This is why the state budget will receive an additional EUR 4 million from the Government, which is almost an additional billion. However, this is not the only change that this law makes possible. Indirectly or if you want directly, especially indirectly, in assessing excise revenue from alcohol and alcoholic products, and in assessing excise duties from tobacco products, the Government of the Account for the so-called accelerated coordination with European directives, and today we are also doing so here, and the Government also estimates that there will be a significant increase in all excise duties. I said, together for 32 billion tolars. If this law is rejected today, then we will force the government to make greater savings. But if you accept it, you will confirm the duplicity of the government of Mr. Janez Janša. A few weeks ago, a bad month ago, we adopted tax legislation here at an extraordinary session. This tax legislation has been said that the income situation will not deteriorate. However, the first tax law we adopt again at an extraordinary meeting, before we close the 2007 budget, requires as much as 32 billion more taxes collected from citizens, on the basis of this law. It's about duality. The point is that this law not only aligns matters with the European Directive, but in particular lays down the conditions for the Government to be able to collect more excise revenue for 32 billion, such as the estimated implementation in 2006. And the only change, apart from the government's decisions of course, is what we are now going to confirm in the various provisions of this law. That is why we reject the adoption of this law in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. We would suggest that the Government is more cost-effective in the budget, because then it would not be necessary to impose an additional very important burden on all Slovenes and Slovenians. To say that 12 extra euros for people with minimum wages and pensioners is not a cost, but, of course, it is a simple exercise. We're rejecting the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Cyril Testen. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We will support the draft law on amendments and additions to the excise law in the New Slovenia Group. The draft law has three main objectives: to reduce the administrative burdens of electricity market participants, to equalise the operating conditions of all biofuel traders and to simplify procedures for farmers, small wine producers. The main proposed substantive amendments to the excise legislation are due to the adoption of Directive 2003/96 of 27 October 2003 on the restructuring of the Community framework for the taxation of energy and electricity. With the adoption of the bill, our legal order will be fully aligned with the European tax regime for excise products, in the field of electricity taxation and monitoring the movement of biofuels with the excise accompanying document. This proposal also relieves the debtors of unnecessary administration. Just as the tax reform package simplified the tax process and more transparently regulated land taxation, which does not reach EUR 200 of cadastral income, this proposal also simplifies. Small wine producers will no longer propose the calculation of excise duties until it amounts to 0 tolars. Those undertakings entered in the register of producers of grapes and wines need no longer be provided with data, but are taken from the register by the customs authority after the official duty. The only increase in excise duty offered by the law is an increase in excise duty on cigarettes. This increase is also due to compliance with European legislation. Since 1.7.2007, the taxation of cigarettes in Slovenia will be equivalent to European legislation. This provides that the minimum level of taxation of EUR 64 per 1,000 cigarettes is the best-selling price class. This appropriation is intended to cover approximately one billion budgetary revenue. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we supported the proposal that changes and additions to the Law on excise duty should be dealt with in a reduced procedure, as these are less difficult changes. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal of the law mainly in the work that brings simplifications to the taxpayers. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, we also support the proposal of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia to amend the rules on the way in which excise duty is recovered for energy consumers used to drive agricultural and forestry mechanisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the excise law concerns some minor changes and is therefore to be dealt with in a reduced procedure. Let me begin by stressing that the law does not change the current basic principles of the excise law and that changes do not constitute a possible increase in excise duties. The law reduces the administrative burden on participants in the electricity market, reduces or simplifies procedures for small wine producers and regulates biofuel trade. More specifically, the obligation to keep those documents relating to the operation of excise goods in the internal market is also regulated. Amendments to the law that simplify procedures while maintaining effective control are always welcome and also this time. Electricity will be taxed newly when delivered to final customers, so it will be paid by suppliers supplying electricity to final consumers. With regard to biofuels, it should be stressed that the classification of biofuels among excise products will have no negative effects on manufacturers or consumers, as it will not lead to the promotion of fuels or the application and the introduction of excise duty. However, the classification of biofuels among excise products is necessary in terms of control over the production, processing and storage of this energy. As is widely known, the number of biofuel producers and consequently consumers has increased significantly recently. From this point of view, the control of the customs authority over this activity is certainly necessary. In particular, in the Slovenian People's Party, we view as a good solution to this law, the exception is that particularly serious offences are committed in relation to the level of the penalty imposed and that the law provides for three-fold or trigger punishment, such as generally threatened fines. In view of all the above, we will adopt or support the proposal for a bill supplementing the excise law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Some of our decisions from the past require, or determine, our conduct now, even in the future, and even in the Law on Excavities, they involve such interventions. It is therefore a matter of making decisions in the past that we have to change our behaviour in certain segments and that we also need to change and adapt to regulation. For example, amendments to several laws will be required and fines will be introduced in the future, and changes to our decisions on the entry into the European Union will require our amendments and our decisions on this particular directive and the introduction of the euro, etc., which has the necessary consequences. So some things we just can't avoid, but they're in some kind of causation order, in a sample order. As I say, we do not have free time to choose often either 'I' or 'No', but we simply have to introduce some things if we want to have consistent legislation and if we want our legislation to be harmonised with Europe. In this regard, the proposer has put forward proposals to amend this law and in the DeSUS Group of Members, we will also support this proposal for a bill on changes and additions to the excise law. It is assessed by the applicants that this also requires some of the findings of practice so far, from our experience that there has been a lot of over-administrative and unnecessary administration, so that we have too many excise events, services and documentation. They note that cities also have inadequate controls over excise goods or excise goods, and they note that we have frequent cases of irregularities, abuse, and, as it literally says, fraud. It is therefore also a matter of wanting to sanction certain irregularities or misdemeanours relating to excise duties more appropriately. That is why we now have so-called serious offences defined or qualified offences that are expected to be substantially more severe than ever. Perhaps there is a surprise for someone, but there is a possibility of more than 10 million fines, of course more severe misdemeanors related to the charging of excise duties. Certain amendments are also required by the Energy Directive, which, apart from tobacco, also introduces a requirement for excise duty on electricity, and it is likely to be stressed that the transitional period applied three years ago is due to expire. We also do not have much free time or choice here, unless we want to violate the obligations we have. It is important, therefore, that we mention these dates also for the sake of knowing that these new burdens have been predetermined, long before it was known which government will propose this law, long before it was known that we would have a problem with the potential VAT hike in 2008, that is, long before it was said that we have an unrealisticly planned budget, that we have the grey foxes that we are now filling with some excise revenue in the state budget. The expectations of the applicants go in this direction so that there will be better harmonised rules for fewer administrations, including for farmers, which has been mentioned to be less payments, because there will be more exemptions for biofuels, and there will be more payments for certain excise products, which are not products that we should promote from various ecological, health and other aspects. So what's going to come up with more excise duties is going to be picked up by the consumption of cigarettes or tobacco. As we assess that the bill is going in the right direction, we will support it in the DeSUS Group of Members, also because all the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Only one amendment was tabled, namely the LDS delegation to Article 22. Anybody want to talk? The application for discussion shall be open. Mr. Mag. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we want both the amendment and the further debate on the content of the amendment - and, of course, I particularly hope that the Government will come forward - to get a much more precise explanation, which was released in the first part. We argue that if this law were not adopted, unless the excise law was passed, then, of course, in 2007, we would have a much lower level of excise revenue, not as it now seems that we have a very large increase in excise revenue. Given the realisation of what is 32 billion and then, as the Government itself proposes, it is, of course, so, especially because of the stories related to excise duties on energy, electricity and so on. And so, of course, we would like the Government to explain to us very precisely where the government suddenly has 32 billion more excise tolls than revenues, such as revenue estimated after implementation for 2006. And within this, of course, how the individual provisions and particularly the provisions concerning the amendment we have proposed affect the commitment of Slovenians and Slovenes to a greater payment of excise duties. This is an important issue, especially because Mr President of the Government said: Believe me, in 2007 all people in Slovenia will be less taxed. Of course, I have to say that all those who use electricity, these I think are 99.9%, smokers - they say the number is decreasing - and consumers of this type of alcohol and alcohol products, and also for this number, I hope that it will decrease in Slovenia, will pay more and will be taxed more on excise duties. These excise duties amount to more than 32 billion dollars. And we are surprised that after you have supported the laws of the ruling coalition, with which you have mainly burdened one small group of taxpayers with higher income, after you have given a large tax gift, in fact now that we are monitoring this law, when we look at the provisions of this law, we can find that the taxpayers - those who have to pay the tax on energy, on electricity, on alcohol, on tobacco products - will simply find out that this tax gift will be paid for themselves. The difference is in the distribution of this tax gift. 700 000 and so many households, with an average consumption of 10 to 15,000 tolls, will pay the country a year to give a tax gift, which is an additional 3,000 tolars or around 12 euros. Only on that basis. But it is extremely difficult to see how much smokers are going to pay and how much drinkers are going to spend. The data are only global here, and the government said in global data that the taxation of excise duty on alcohol would be higher by 1/5, 12 million euros for alcohol, and the government said that it had decided to speed up coordination and that such additional resources would be almost €18 million under this heading. Thus, the Government is financing the tax burden of redistribution and the tax gift it has given to those who are expected to accelerate development, not by saving, but by higher excise duty, according to the Government itself, by 32 billion tolls more excise duties in 2007, according to the 2006 Implementation Assessment. The usual increase in excise duty is about 4 billion. In 2005, there were 230 billion, and in 2006 there were 234 billion. It is said that about 4 billion a year is the increase in excise duties. Now, this year, there are eight times more excise duties. This is what I think requires an explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to also define myself to an amendment which foresees that the exemption from the payment of electricity excise duty should be increased for all those plants that exceed or reach 10 megawatts. In fact, the law provides for 2 megawatts, that is to say, for these power plants, no excise duty is paid for so-called small power plants if they use this electricity for their use in their use. We, the Government here, do not support or disagree with the proposed amendment, especially because it would actually affect unfair competition. After all, in the European Commission's view, this opinion is built on professional grounds, the power plant with 2 megawatts is that power plant that is actually still producing electricity for its needs, while all that is more actually means producing electricity for the market and from this point of view this would constitute additional unfair competition. This is why the Government does not support this amendment. With regard to excise duties themselves, it should be said that the Government is reducing, according to the existing law, the excise duty on electricity for so-called electricity for commercial use, from 1 euro to 0.5 euros. The current legislation, which was adopted on 1 May 2004 and then implemented this amendment, applies to EUR 1 for any electricity. With regard to the increase in excise financial revenues, these financial revenues should also be considered in the light of participation in the gross social product. And if we figure out the growth of gross social product and also the share of excise financial revenue, then we find that this share is stable. For example, the implementation of this share in 2005 was 3.48 in the adopted budget for 2006 is 3.43, then the revised estimates are 3.32, the adopted budget for 2007 is 3.49 and the draft amending budget for 2007 is 3.52% of the gross social product. As elsewhere in Slovenia, this share is stable and constitutes one of the bases for financing public spending. In view of the very nature of the excise duty, it should be concluded that the amount of excise duty or the amount, the fiscal effect of excise duty, is also dependent on consumption. And if the consumption of oil and petroleum derivatives is higher, then the amount of excise duty is actually higher and, consequently, the amount of value added tax, which means that the Government expects, given all macroeconomic indicators or indicators, that the consumption of these excise duties will increase mainly in the field of oil excise duty or in the taxation of oil derivatives. As has already been pointed out, we also expect an increase in excise duty on tobacco products, particularly cigarettes. We need to align ourselves here with the European Union, we need to align ourselves with the European Commission. In fact, we have given this commitment to the European Union and we need to keep our word. And a certain greater financial outflow comes from excise duty on cigarettes or tobacco products. Nevertheless, the Government also estimates that the excise duty on alcoholic beverages has not been corrected by inflation or inflation since 2001 and that only this adjustment, which is completely normal and economically justified, also amounts to a higher amount under the so-called alcohol excise duty. This means, of course, that, as in other countries, including other developing countries in the European Union and even in the world, the so-called indirect taxation, which is in line with professional and neutral policy, is being strengthened. Finally, the so-called direct taxation, in particular those that affect the costs of companies and because it affects the costs of companies, also means an increase in costs, is also a lower competitiveness, but this direct taxation, when we talk about labour taxation and when we talk about corporate taxation, is declining. Thus, these are in fact the main reasons for the increase in excise duty or which constitute this financial effect, which has also been postponed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The application for discussion shall be open. One more time, please. The application is under way. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much. When we talk about the Law on excise duties, I must remind you that in 2003 we committed ourselves to the European Union to introduce these excise duties as of 2007. And I think it is fair for us to say this to the public that we must stick to these agreements as members of the European Community. I think that this amendment that's been tabled, I think it's been tabled, I would say, maliciously, thoughtlessly and unprofessionally. In view of what Mr State Secretary has now said, 2 megawatt power plant is normal personal consumption, all that remains is a surplus that is subject to all tax obligations. The increase in these excise duties and the increase in excise duties on tobacco products have also been said now that these increases are minimal, but in accordance with an agreement that we have agreed on in the past and that we must stick to it as members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u106	I'm afraid the numbers are cruel. The nominal excise duty increase is 14.3%. The nominal growth of minimum wage is seven times lower. And you have to ask yourself this question when you will support today's changes to the Excise Act, which provides the government with an additional 32 billion tolars. 14.3% growth due to all the reasons in this law and also to matters related to the European Union. However, if only the part relating to the European Union would be taken into account, then, as the Government itself states, only about 850 million dollars, not 32 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Hwauc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, given that we've practically told each other everything on the board. When we talk about the increase of these terrible 32 billion Slovenian tolars, it is necessary to stress once again - this government has brought Slovenia into a position where unemployment has been the lowest in many recent years. This also means that more workers have wages, this means more consumption and, of course, this is reflected in larger excise duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Shirtzel, you asked for my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I would like to stress here that excise duties are taxed on alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and petroleum derivatives. These are excise products which, of course, have a special situation in each country and in fact, the increase in excise duties is important also because, after all, certain products which may also be harmful to health are taxed. The country can lead a specific policy here and from this point of view it is much better to reduce labour taxation on the one hand and corporate taxation on the other and, of course, we are adapting these amounts to the European Union and, of course, inflation, for example, in the field of alcohol excise duties, where inflation has not actually been corrected since 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Another round. Commence application. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I completely agree with you. The government does not save, instead of financing a reduction in the tax on paid wages through austerity measures, it simply decided to increase the taxation of all Slovenians and Slovenes in petrol, in energy, in electricity, in alcohol, in tobacco products. And by 14.3% more, that's the government's policy. And don't say that you're reducing the income position, that the taxes on Slovenians and Slovenians will be reduced. No! No! Taxes, especially excise duty, will increase by 14% more in 2007 than in 2006. And, of course, the taxation of wages has nothing to do with this matter, but even those low wages that will be paid by individuals, especially those on minimum wages, especially those who receive income from social transfers, all of these salaries are taxed in consumption with a significant 14% higher excise duty. And that is the problem of closing this budget and that is why we are opposed to it. You need this marriage in order to spend a lot of money.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. According to other documents, the Government is saving, reducing the share of expenditure in gross social product for 2007 and 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Another round. Commence application. Mr. Mag. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u116	The government has promised to reduce public spending by 44.1% by 2 percentage points during its term of office. The 2007 budget proposal foresees that public spending will remain at 44.1%. Not even 1 tenth, a hundred percent of the public spending will not be reduced by the draft budget. But if we did not adopt this law, then we would be forced to save, and then spending would be reduced. That is why we say that this excise law only allows for the continuation of the high spending of the country, and in 2007 this consumption of the country reached the historic highest level of almost 45%; not every fourth, but almost every other tolar is now a matter of public consumption.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, as far as I can see, I am concluding the debate. The amendments, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 1st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 The proposal for amending the budget was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I very much welcome the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, and the ministers present. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who will present the proposal for amending the budget for 2007. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and honourable Members, by the way, are rarer! I am pleased that today, following the presentation of the 2007 and 2008 budget memorandum and the 2008 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can also present a proposal for amending the budget for the following year and an updated draft budget for 2008. Following the discussion, the amendments adopted by the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy were taken into account. With the 2007-2008 budget proposals, the Government meets the economic, social and intergenerational objectives of the development of Slovenia and the international installation of Slovenia as a world of recognizable countries. We want to create conditions for a more flexible economy, higher added value, higher employment, knowledge-based economic development, an effective social state and a coherent sustainable development of all regions of Slovenia. The results achieved by Slovenia in the economic field this year are the best so far and result from the ability of the Slovenian economy, the effective management of economic policies and the favourable conditions in partner countries. Slovenia will become the 13th new member of the European Monetary Union as of 1 January 2007 and will thus be the only new member of the Union to take over the euro as its own currency. This success is even greater for citizens and citizens of Slovenia because Slovenia has met the sharp Maastricht criteria while increasing economic growth, which was 5% in the first half of this year, while increasing employment. With this in Slovenia, we have shown that inflation can be reduced when unemployment is reduced and employment increases. According to the forecast of Umar's autumn report, positive economic trends will continue, economic growth for the entire year is estimated at 4.7%, next year at 4.3 and in 2008 at 4.2%. Employment growth is estimated at 0.9% this year, 0.8% for 2007 and 0.9% again for 2008. According to autumn forecast, real gross wage growth in 2006 will be 2.2%, in 2007 2.5% and in 2008 3%. Following slightly higher inflation in 2006 and 2007, average inflation is estimated to fall from 2.7% to 2.5% in 2008. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set itself ambitious goals of decommissioning the Slovenian economy, which are being or will be being realized, and in part, by implementing a package of tax changes or tax laws. Under the new legislation, Slovenian companies will be able to use or benefit from incentives for research and development and pay lower taxes, in particular the highly educated labour force. The tax procedure will be simpler and therefore cheaper. We believe that such a decommissioning will further accelerate economic growth and employment growth and that it is only by doing so that we can achieve and overcome the EU's average development. The proposal for amendments to the 2007 state budget thus foresees €7.76 billion in revenue, 24.5% of gross domestic product, and €8.08 billion in expenditure, or 25.5% of gross domestic product. The budget deficit in 2007 is estimated at EUR 322 million, or 1% of gross domestic product. Compared to the assessment of the realisation of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget for this year, this means that the budget revenue is falling by half a percentage of GDP, while the expenditure is falling by 0.6% of GDP. Consolidated public finances for 2007, which include the revenue of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, and the revenue of municipalities, are estimated at EUR 13.67 billion, or 43.2% of GDP, while consolidated expenditure is estimated at EUR 13.26 billion and 44.1% of GDP. The projected government deficit in 2007 will thus amount to 0.9% of GDP. In 2008, the State Budget proposal envisions €8.13 billion in revenue, which is 24.1% of GDP, and €8.44 billion in expenditure, or 25% of GDP. The budget deficit in 2008 is estimated at EUR 306.5 million, or 0.9% of GDP. This means that the projected revenue of the state budget, in view of the 2007 amendment proposal, is reduced by 0.4% of the GDP point, while the expenditure is reduced by half a percentage of the GDP point. In 2008, the draft budget provides for consolidated revenues of €14.36 billion, or 42.5% of the GDP point and consolidated expenditure of €14.62 billion, or 43.3% of the GDP point. The projected government deficit in 2008 will thus amount to 0.8% of the GDP point, the disability and pension insurance office will be balanced in 2007 and 2008, while the Treasury Office for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Communiqués in 2007 and 2008 foresee surpluses. The government estimates that under the European Union's financial perspective, the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia with the budget of the European Union between 2007 and 2011, on average, will be 1.56% of the GDP, while the outflows will be 1.13% of the point. The net position of the Slovenian budget vis-à-vis the EU budget is foreseen at a height of 0.43%. This does not include inflows from the EU budget directly to the final beneficiaries in the Republic of Slovenia. It is important to say, however, that Slovenia will receive €3.7 billion from the Structural and Cohesion Funds between 2007 and 2013. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of these additional resources for our development and has therefore already taken a number of activities in early 2005 which have helped to improve the absorption of European funds; these measures have proved to be very effective. Your Honor! The government presented a developmental and cost-effective budget to the National Assembly. In 2007 and 2008, resources for the economy, for science and development, for tertiary education, to reduce judicial backlogs, we pay particular attention to environmental protection, we lead policies to address structural deficits and strategies to ensure long-term stability of public finances. We are taking important measures that will have positive consequences for all citizens and citizens, and we want to achieve this in a socially sustainable way. Dear Members and Members! The aim of the Government is to ensure a macroeconomic environment for a more competitive and faster growing Slovenian economy and to preserve the social state, while achieving the Lisbon objectives and objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia. The government has thus proposed amendments to the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and to the 2008 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which leads Slovenia safely to faster progress and creates a realistic basis for greater prosperity for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposal for amending the budget was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I very much welcome the President of the Government and all the ministers and all the other ministers present! A proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 was also addressed by the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy Assembly at its 23rd session on 15.11.2006. The Committee received opinions from all interested labour bodies, but we did not receive any draft proposals for amendments. In addition, 99 amendments which the Committee has considered have been forwarded to the Committee, some of which have also been accepted and proposed to be adopted by the National Assembly. The debate focused on some points that I would like to highlight. GDP in 2007 is projected at 31 billion 957 million tolars, so called 100%. 13 billion 964 million tolars, which is 44.1 for consumption in all four cash registers. Of this, the cash budget of the Republic of Slovenia is €8 000 87 billion - I say good-bye because I said earlier in tolars - which is about one part; then we have €4 thousand 67 billion, that is the PPIZ, the pension treasury, then the projected expenditure of €1936 billion on health bills and €1636 billion on health bills, totalling €13 billion 964 million. The deficit will be 0.9% and 306 million euros, as said by Mr President. The fact is that the revised draft budget, which is ready for adoption in the National Assembly, is of course a much better version, the changes are more precise calculations and proposals, and we therefore propose that the National Assembly also approves this budget, these changes to the budget. I would like to say that in the debate on the working body itself, on the Committee on Finance, the most comments were made on the over-estimated VAT revenues, which was mainly for 2008, and it was pointed out from many sides that the Government's plan to reduce public spending, which is covered by these changes, was too ambitious. It would be good to take a closer look at and make sure that national consumption or public consumption is reduced, as this is the only way to reduce the tax burden of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the economy itself, and thus, of course, increase the competitive capacity and the possibility of creating a greater gross domestic product or greater wealth and better status and standard of Slovenia. We suggest that the changes be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Milan Cvikl, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Mr President, Members and Members of the Government. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support the proposal for amending the budget of 2007 nor the draft budget for 2008. The 2007 budget is unrealistic, with higher taxes on the closed budget. Nor will we support it because it is a budget that gives mainly to the repressive authorities and to the protocol facilities, but does not give money for school meals, the transport of students and nothing helps us if we complete the construction of the Oncology Institute, the Paediatric Clinic, if there is no money for doctors, for secondarys, for their education. This is not a cost-effective budget. This budget is largely financed by indebtedness to all development projects and in the coming year we will meet with the rebalancing of this budget in order to put an end to the non-transparent and, contrary to the principles of good governance, we will be indebted to Slovenia. These debts, the debts that will arise from the 2007 budget, 2008 budget and the 2005 rebalancing and the 2006 budget that has just been implemented, with all the commitments we make in this National Assembly, will be in the mandate of the Janša government for over 1,000 billion tolars. And that's what our kids are gonna pay for. We therefore oppose such a draft budget. It is known that a month and a half ago we also received a proposal for amending the 2008 budget in the National Assembly, and it took a month and a half to start discussing this legislation yesterday, this budget, on the committee responsible, and today we are supposed to vote on the amendments around midnight - as if we were in an emergency. I do not know - Mr President has left - whether this spirit of emergency has moved from Iraq. Both budgets for the last two years of Janša's mandate are proposed in full contradiction to the principle of a spell to propose a decommissioning of the economy, which is what the economic situation requires. Mr President said that public financial expenditure in 2007 would amount to 44.1, public financial expenditure in 2004 was also 44.1. Mr President forgot to say that the coalition promise was that the strategy for the development of Slovenia, that the framework for economic reforms had foreseen that, during the time of his Government's mandate, the scope of public financial expenditure would be reduced to 42.1 or 140 billion lower than that presented here today. That is why we say that these budgets, and above all the 2007 draft amending budget, complement the collection of Janša's existing budgets, which in particular increase the tax burden of the economy, both through excise duties and through VAT, and satisfy the coalition partners in view of the commitments made under the Coalition Treaty. The corporate income tax will rise by 246 billion dollars in 2007, the share of GDP that some like to talk about will be 7.51 or 3 percentage points higher than it was in 2004. The nominal increase in corporate income tax is over 100%. Instead of reducing public spending by 2 percentage points or 140 billion, which could be the basis for reducing taxes needed at the time of taking over the euro, public consumption is increasing beyond realistic options and under high tax burdens on the economy. The structure of spending proposals also shows a wrong, undeveloped public financial policy. The most money is spent on investments in various protocol centres, congress centres, police stations on the southern border or, if you want, south of Ljubljana, the costs of operating repressive organs, the purchase of helicopters, vessels, embassy premises, the costs of the unemployed and so on. The increase in wages according to the proposal, according to the budget and the proposal for amendments, is an additional €42 million. Increase in office supplies of EUR 20 million, index over 19%, and subsidies of EUR 24 million. Indeed, in the 2007 and 2008 state budget, there are some promises for development investments that are expected to be invested non-inflationaryly in terms of European funding, but in 2007 it is not possible to expect the drawdown of programmes for the next financial perspective 2007-2013. Therefore, the closure of budgets is unrealistic and structurally wrong because it presupposes a particularly high debt. But the government can also save. Where does the government save Janez Janša? After one year, after the coalition was able to block for one year, it is now being saved in social transfers by either reducing their revalorisation, or reducing their rights, or even putting them off for the next period. The transfer of NGOs is declining, there is less money for culture, almost 5% less money for the budget is in the pension register, and then the government explains that this will be due to a smaller number of debtors. Please! How do you get fewer pensioners? Investments in schools, health care are being delayed and, last but not least, the reserve is being reduced. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia reduces the budget reserve, each family has a reserve, a black fund. Mr Minister of Finance and Mr Janez Janša have already spent it. Undoubtedly, these budgets will have a negative impact on maintaining economic growth, which is now driven by investment from domestic and foreign debt, particularly with regard to the high investment of residents in housing construction, both because of and in connection with housing facilitation. What was known to have been abolished less than a month ago. 105,000 Slovenian taxpayers will no longer be able to benefit from tax relief for housing. For these reasons, because a large part of the projects are financed either by unrealistic resources in 2007 or by high indebtedness, this is particularly true for motorways, rail transport, and also for the financing of certain European projects at the level of municipalities, we say that this is an inadequate and wrong budget. The 2007 and 2008 budgets should be in view of the high levels of economic growth with which the President boasts here, but I must say that there is much that this Government, except that it has nothing to do with taking the euro, has not had, this should be a budget adjustment, not that these budgets are primarily a means to how, on the one hand, after we adopt the excise law today, we are taxing excise products on a high level for all of us when we gave a tax gift to a handful of citizens on the other hand a few months ago. The budget, closed with higher VAT, with higher excise duties - mainly the 2008 budget - the higher excise revenue budget for 2007 and 2008 and the higher taxation of the economy in 2006, 2007 and 2008 budgets are, of course, contrary to the reform objectives of reducing public spending and increasing economic competitiveness. However, they are fully in line with the principles of the coalition treaty, which, of course, were very simple: works and rule. That's the wrong policy. Wrong policy because at five key points it creates major problems in Slovenian public finances. Slovenian experts point out that there has also been some talk this week that, of course, it will not be possible to raise the consumer tax further, since up to half of Slovenians can decide to buy elsewhere due to the changes in consumption taxes. Also, of course, to say that this is a good budget, because you have closed it by shutting down the housing allowance, that you have abolished 2% relief for all Slovenes and Slovenians, of course this is not appropriate. The budget, with which repressive authorities are financed to a greater extent, the construction of protocol facilities or developments that do not promote development, is not a development budget. Budgets create fundamental injustice in Slovenia, as the limitation of individual legal rights is intended to finance another, unjustifiable tax gift or inadequate consumption. It is illegal to commit to a medical cash register to finance the costs of hiring new doctors now, contrary to the Constitution, which, of course, says that the health treasury is intended to provide money for medicines and for treatment. However, the tasks of the State under the Health Act are clear. This burden, about €11 million, has now been transferred by the Government, in cooperation with and with the agreement of the President of the Government, to all those who are committed to the Slovenian compulsory health system, because of savings at the will of the Minister, Mr Bručan and Minister Bajuk. The budget for building the infrastructure is limited and financed mainly by a high increase in the indebtedness of the Slovenian highway programme for a billion euro of additional debts. This will cost between 50 billion and 75 billion additional interest in the project and, instead of funding the motorway programme by 2020, 2030, we will be able to finance it by 2070. Moreover, it is only assuming that electronic tolls will be introduced in 2008 and that the toll revenue will rise by 40%. These are cruel financial facts, which are due to the fact that the Government has decided that it will no longer be in Slovenian, but has decided to finance the highway programme after the Balkan, Argentine, if you want. A similar, even worse story is on the railways. Bringing to the National Assembly a law giving an agency which is an integral part of the bill, the Ministry of Transport, the possibility to charge 100 billion dollars for co-financing European projects, because the state budget could not guarantee it, is first of all untransparent, risky and contrary to both Slovenian public financial legislation and European rules. Allowing the municipalities after you take their financial compensation today and projects in 2010 in the municipalities they are thinking about today to wait for the approval of the law on the implementation of the 2009 budget, and allowing these municipalities to have a large amount of additional debt is a very short-term policy. But I do believe that the newly elected mayors will not be able to do anything else. This will significantly increase public debt at the level of the municipalities. And the last item, the so-called European budget closure. It is very simple for the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government, who says to the Minister of Higher Education, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of the Environment and Space, and could count them, unfortunately we cannot provide our own resources, go or borrow, one option, or simply limit your resources from the state budget and prepare to draw on European funds in 2007. The problem is only in the time frame. This source, this money will not be available in 2007 and not in 2008. That is why, as in 2005 and 2006, we will have a close relationship with the European budget, we are likely to have this in 2007. But the government is counting on this state budget, which we accept, to be the surplus of money that will come from the European budget for over 35 to 40 billion dollars. There won't be any resources. That is why these ministers will mainly plan a lot and work very little over the last two years of their mandate. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia opposes the draft budget, which is unrealisticly closed, which is not austerity, and which in particular means a great debt to Slovenia, so we will continue to propose amendments to correct, to a certain extent, the errors in this budget and we will fully oppose the adoption of the budget when voting on the draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats Group will be presented by Mr Franc Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Honourable ministers with Minister Bajuk as the most responsible for the budget at the head! Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The next two years, for which the National Assembly will adopt amendments to the 2007 budget and the 2008 draft supplementary budget, will represent major changes and, in particular, a test for the government and the state of Slovenia. Therefore, in particular, the government and the government coalition, which will finally decide on both proposals, is so much larger. The two documents will depend largely on what the future development of Slovenia will be like in the new and somewhat changed conditions. We are also aware of our part of our responsibility in the Group of Social Democrats, and we have already been aware of a number of debates in which there were usually few Members and Members, so that, in particular, we have been on the Committee on Finance, usually on the verge of a conclusion, which is also, in our own language, we have drawn attention to some problems and put forward proposals and amendments with the aim of keeping the budgets as basic documents of economic and development policy as closely as possible the strategy for the development of Slovenia, the national programme for achieving the Lisbon objectives and other good documents, including government commitments and forecasts and government coalitions. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the main part of the comments and proposals have not been taken into account and the proposed amendments, as expected, the Government is happy to reject. Therefore, it seems urgent for us to draw attention to some of the problems, uncertainty and uncertainty of the reality of budgetary planning in this final debate and the adoption of budgets, in order to avoid problems in the near future. This is not intended to promote pessimism, as some fellow Members have seen in some of the current discussions on budgets. With warnings and proposals, we want to contribute to a better budget, to a realistic assessment of the situation and future developments, and to timely action by the Government even after the adoption of the budgets. For a good budget comes not only within a few weeks of its consideration of the Government and in the National Assembly, but practically throughout the year through the adoption of legislation, programmes and measures of current and development policy. In doing so, we must warn against the danger that this year's favourable macroeconomic indicators should not put us to sleep, but that these favourable movements, in particular high growth, should be used for years to come. The takeover of the euro brings, in addition to new opportunities, the transfer of monetary authority to the European Central Bank and also the narrowing of the manoeuvre space in fiscal policy, so that there will be more emphasis on other policies where we have more manoeuvre space or autonomy. Economic growth in the euro area is already a few years lower than growth in the entire European Union in the 25th century. In addition, the European Union or, more precisely, the European Commission is also predicting the slow growth of gross domestic product for Slovenia in the next two years. It is important to take seriously the latest data from the World Economic Forum, which in 2006 showed a deterioration in Slovenia's global competitiveness index, fell from 30th to 33rd place and poorer market competitiveness, where we are 63rd place. It is no coincidence that there are Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Denmark and other countries at the summit of global competitiveness. We must not ignore the European Commission's 2007 and 2008 forecast, which foresees a reduction in investment growth and export growth in Slovenia, which are key or main generators of economic growth. The reduction in employment growth from 0.8% in 2006, to 0.4% in 2007 and 0.5% in 2008 threatens the achievement of one of the most important Lisbon goals, namely 70% of the active population in 2010. It's not about blackness, it's about concern, it's about a warning. These and other data from domestic and foreign analyses require a stronger restructuring of the budget to promote growth in competitiveness, exports, new quality jobs, entrepreneurship and coherent regional development. The proposed 2007 budget changes, according to our assessment, do not provide this sufficiently. Risk is a likely loss of revenue in relation to the tax legislation adopted, and an even greater risk lies in the European Union's funds, on which much of the most important budget development items are based, both developmental and social. It is true that the cumulative situation in October has improved in the use of European funds, but if we take a closer look at the structure of use, we see that this has occurred mainly at the expense of agriculture and the use of budgetary resources that have been provided in advance. [[flat-rate reimbursements]] . However, there is still an extremely worrying low use of funds from the Structural and Cohesion Funds; for structural funds, this percentage is 45, with only 35 social funds. Government services themselves identify delays in filing claims for reimbursements from the European budget and a series of other shortcomings in individual resources. Given that we are before the end of the year, Slovenia may be a net payer instead of a net payee this year. In view of the fact that in the coming years, on the basis of the new financial perspective starting from 1.1. next year, the right years for which we accept these additions or budget changes will be provided will be substantially higher and there will not be any pre-assured lump sums, so that the use of the funds will be entirely dependent on us, in particular on better organisation, quality and experienced staff and on prepared good projects. At least for the moment, unfortunately, we do not have the information that the Government is prepared to make maximum use of these funds. On the contrary, quite critical assessments of preparedness are available from the Government circles themselves, with the exception of some sources, and this month and a half before the implementation of the new financial perspective. One of the important obstacles to a more development-oriented budget and also to a faster decommissioning of the economy is insufficient austerity measures for public consumption. The government does not implement sufficiently its own commitment to reducing public spending by 2 percentage points. Clearly, sufficient warnings about the risk of increased imbalances in public finances, both by foreign institutions, are not being taken into account. [[European Commission, International Monetary Fund]] as well as domestic macroeconomics. Entry into the euro area also requires respect for the Stability and Growth Pact. It is understandable that it is not possible to perform a miracle overnight at the time of the adoption of the budget itself. Therefore, timely action by the Government is necessary. This also applies to savings that cannot be implemented only through the reduction of rights and social transfers and with linear constraints when preparing the budget, which must be done primarily by the Minister of Finance; I am sure that this is also successful, but of course this is not sufficient and is not always the most rational or prudent. Let me now have some more concrete comments and proposals for a more developmental and social fairer attitude and changes to the budget for next year. We have also prepared a series of amendments that will be discussed, I apologize for taking a few more minutes, but I promise not to advertise or repeat this in the amendments. The proposal still does not have sufficient resources for technological development, in particular for the coming year, a slightly larger increase for 2008. This is one of the main priorities and conditions for greater competitiveness, productivity and additionality, and finally one of the main Lisbon guidelines. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, taking into account the resources in the two balance sheets this year, is only a minimal increase. Growth indices also need to take into account the low base, as Slovenia is still far behind the European Union average for investment in research and technological development, not to mention some of the most pervasive countries. The great problem remains in the insufficient link between the research sphere and the economy. More resources should be provided to promote foreign direct investment, even reducing. This is unacceptable in view of the insufficient volume of foreign direct investment and especially given the fact that the volume of foreign investment decreased in the previous year compared to the previous year in the structure of all investments. There is also a need for greater investment in export and tourism promotion in particular, as one of the main obstacles to achieving even better results in tourism is the underrecognition of Slovenia abroad. This is noted by the tourism strategy adopted by the Government and also addressed by the Committees of the National Assembly and fully supported. Greater investment in promotion will also require the introduction of a new sign and the slogan of Slovenian tourism. More resources should be devoted to promoting the development of a small economy, even in 2007 the resources are falling, and the reduction of administrative barriers is obviously not enough. More resources also require a good programme of measures and new legislation to encourage a small economy. There are also insufficient resources to support economic activities and to restructure businesses, which is a condition for greater competitiveness, for greater added value, for maintaining and providing new jobs. More resources would be needed for an active employment policy, in particular to create new jobs and increase business flexibility. Unfortunately, the volume of resources is even decreasing in 2007, more new and better quality jobs are one of the important conditions for greater labour market flexibility. Given that we still cannot be satisfied with the results of a coherent regional development policy and that a great deal of efforts and resources have been made over the past years in the preparation of regional development programmes, it is unacceptable to reduce the resources to co-finance the implementation of the implementation parts of the regional development programmes. The volume of international development cooperation funds in several ministries, or some call this item international development aid, remains at about the same level as before, which is one percent of GDP. The government clearly forgets the commitment it has made in relation to the EU, and this obligation applies to all new Union members to increase these funds to 0.17% of GDP by 2010 and 0.33% by 2015. It is no coincidence that Austria doubled the volume of funds for international development cooperation during the presidency last year. In addition to other motives or reasons, economic interest exists in order to increase the volume of resources and to make a reasonable use of these funds, as this is also an important form of export promotion and, in particular, the opening up of new markets. With regard to the increase in investment support and the construction of state roads, we expect that, in addition to the amendments of coalition groups, amendments from members of parliament and members of the opposition will be adopted, and that investments will be made according to professional and not political criteria. In reducing the funding for the construction of motorways for Dars, however, we note that this should not slow down the construction of motorways, especially in sections where transit freight is constantly increasing and the state and life of the current roads is becoming more unsustainable, for example along the G1-3 main road towards the Hungarian border. The short-term exit is in the hiring of credits, but the government should take care of 100% of the toll collection on all sections of highways and other sources, including public-private partnerships as soon as possible. Let me get this. In view of the resolution on priority development projects by which the Government predicts an ambitious development momentum, we are asked whether the 2007 budget changes provide funds to finance at least some of the projects contained in this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Cyril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to ministers with co-workers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The adoption of the State budget is one of the main tasks of the National Assembly. The state budget in the New Slovenia Group is understood as a tool to promote national, economic and social priorities. Since resources, revenues are limited, the budget preparation process is coordinated and concrete with each other’s competitive political and programme tasks and objectives. In the New Slovenia Group, we are working towards such a distribution of budgetary resources, which will ensure the most efficient use in the light of the intended priorities. This can only be done through multi-annual budgeting. The Public Finance Act provides the basis for multi-annual macroeconomic and budgetary planning and enables coordinated medium-term country development planning. Such an approach allows the allocation of resources by priority. The priorities are changing slowly and the split decisions have a greater impact on future budgets than on the current budget. The 2007 budget changes, as assessed by the New Slovenia Group, reflect the achievement of the objectives of the Slovenian Development Strategy by improving the quality of life or increasing the well-being of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. The adoption of the budget for this year has been followed by the objectives of achieving the conditions for taking over the euro, and we now have a period before which we need to maintain these objectives. In the New Slovenia Group, we find that this is followed by both revenue and budget expenditure. The public financial deficit of the global public funding balance is falling to 0.9% following the 2007 supplementary draft budget. This represents a 25% reduction in terms of the budget adopted. The deficit was significantly lower than planned in 2005 and deficit estimates are reduced by 0.3% this year. Thus, the average public deficit remains under the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. Tax revenues are also falling by a good percentage in the coming year. This implements the forecasts when the tax legislation is adopted to relieve the tax burden on the economy, as well as lower taxes on the population. In concrete figures, this means that the share of tax revenue collected is reduced by 0.34% of the gross social product in relation to the 2007 budget adopted. The autumn report also assesses that the share of compulsory duties in the gross social product will gradually decrease. In 2007, 40.6% of GDP will fall to around 39.4% in 2006 and 38.6% in 2008. During mandatory payments, social security contributions will increase in line with gross wage growth, which will be lagging behind the growth of gross social product. The share of social security contributions in gross social product will decrease from 14.2 in 2006 to 14% in 2007 and 2008. The gradual elimination of the pay tax will reduce the share of the revenue under this heading in the gross social product by 0.4% in 2007. Real growth in corporate income tax revenues will slow down. The share of this tax in the gross social product will fall from an estimated 3.3% in 2006 to around 3% in 2008. Revenue from other taxes and taxes is projected to increase in line with gross domestic product growth in 2007 and 2008 and remove a share in gross social product of 1.2%. Last year, at this time in the National Assembly, we listened to the forecasts of individual Members, how the 2007 draft budget is incomplete, how the public deficit will increase and, above all, how developmentally inappropriate it will be. Today, we see that real gross social product is growing to 4.7%. So economic growth is more favourable than their forecasts. Gross investment growth, fixed capital investment as the richest indicator of economic development is also present. However, the most interesting information is that this year's real growth in gross fixed capital investments will be 8.6% significantly above the spring estimate of 6.6% and that the fiscal deficit of the consolidated balance sheet, that is, the balance sheet of all public finances, is decreasing. In the New Slovenia Group, we demand that lending be based on real forecasts and accurate spending calculations. The State should ensure that projects are also financed from Slovenian private and foreign money. That is why we have strongly supported the law on public-private partnership. It is commendable that debt management slows down debt growth. We believe that an active long-term policy will have a beneficial impact on our country's public finances in the future. On the expenditure side, the mass of consolidated public financial expenditure for 2006 has been reduced and for 2007 the estimated 44.85% of gross social product to 44.11. State budget expenditure is proposed at EUR 1,938 billion or EUR 8 billion 87 million. Their share of the gross social product will reach 25.5%, which is 0.6 percentage points less than in 2006. The expenditure structure of the proposed national budget for 2007 will increase the share of expenditure on investments in gross social product by 0.6 percentage points and subsidies by 0.1 percentage points. This will continue to reduce the share of expenditure by 0,1 percentage points for salaries, contributions and other staff expenditure, for interest and for transfers to public institutions and by 0,2 percentage points for transfers to individuals and households; this is due to the Act amending the valorisation rules. The planned change in municipal funding will reduce the state budget transfers to the municipalities by 0.7% of GDP, which will be the most important reduction in the expenditure of the state budget in 2007. The share of expenditure on goods and services and transfers to the pension register in the gross social product in 2007 will not change significantly in relation to the previous year. In terms of expenditure, I would also like to point out that we are extremely pleased with the resources envisaged in the three ministries for technological development in our Group. These funds are significantly higher than in all previous years. Resources for development and the promotion of tourism, as well as resources for the small economy, are also significantly higher. We are particularly encouraged by investments, investment funds for state roads. These state roads have long been neglected and it is high time to pay more attention to them. Funding for scholarships is also increasing. In particular, I would like to stress - previously discussed in the Law on the Financing of Communities - that the new law will significantly improve the treatment of municipalities in demographically endangered and less developed areas. We support this approach in New Slovenia because we are convinced that this is also one of the ways to help reduce development differences. The new period of the budget of the European Union is also starting in 2007. According to the proposed national budgets for 2007 and 2008, it is envisaged that the share of European funds that Slovenia will be able to draw every year will be around 1.8 gross social product forecasts. The use of European cohesion policy funds is beneficial, according to the provision of the Government service for local self-government and regional policy. All available funds are expected to be spent by the end of 2008. By the end of September, 94% of contracts had been signed at a total value of 74 billion tolars and by the end of the year, all contracts were expected to be signed by the ministries. The proposal foresees that by 2011 the net position of Slovenia's budget will be 0.43% of the gross social product, so Slovenia will receive more money from the European budget than it will be able to pay. The continued implementation of structural reforms is extremely important for maintaining the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The autumn report estimates that in 2007 the impact of international environmental factors, which has a key impact on the dynamics and structure of economic growth and inflation, will be relatively lower. However, the impact of economic policies or laws adopted in 2006 will be strengthened this year. In view of the above arguments in the New Slovenia Group, we support the 2007 amendment. In our view, why is the balance for 2007 particularly good? It is particularly good because it reduces the tax burden on businesses and individuals, is development-oriented and thus enables high and stable economic growth and creates conditions for meeting the convergence criteria even after the euro is taken over.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor and will present the views of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representative of the Government, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We are at the first item of agenda 23 of the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, when considering the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. The budget is, we can say, the core document of each country that determines in what way and, above all, how much the state will finance the individual tasks for which it is responsible. Initially, it should be stressed that there are many desires and expectations in the adoption of each budget and that the means to meet these wishes or expectations are always too small. From the point of view of the state, it is therefore necessary to seek such compromises as represent an optimal solution in terms of budgetary sustainability and stable development of the country in all areas and regions or areas. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we note that the proposed budget changes for the following year follow the basic guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the strategy for the development of Slovenia, which was adopted on 23 June 2005. In our view, the budget follows the objective of faster economic development in Slovenia. It follows the provision of a more efficient and cheaper country or state administration, which is clearly important, in particular in terms of budget savings and the reallocation of these funds into investment and development programmes. Among them, in our view, we should give special attention or, even more than that, give priority to tertiary education and education in general. An important fact that is taken into account in the preparation of the 2007 budget changes as well as in the 2008 budget is the reduction of the public financial deficit. As responsible by the government, we assess the direction that budgetary expenditure or public financial expenditure should gradually be reduced. In this way, we are reducing in particular the continued indebtedness of the country, which could lead to some problems in the future. The deficit of the State budget will thus amount to only 1% of gross social product in 2007, representing 0.2% less than determined by the budget adopted for this year. In this presentation, I do not intend to comment on the whole budget, given that some of the colleagues who represented the views of the parliamentary groups have already done so. So, the scope of the budgetary users, but I will pay a little more attention to those topics and areas that we consider more important or more important in the Slovenian People's Party Group and deserve to be highlighted in particular. Today, as the 1st item of the agenda, we considered the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. Since in the Slovenian People's Party we have been stressing the importance of decentralisation and greater autonomy of municipalities and the development of regions in Slovenia as soon as possible, I would first like to talk about the resources dedicated to the local and regional development of our country. We can immediately conclude that the proposed budget changes for local self-government and regional policy covering the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy increase the volume of funds, in particular at the expense of a larger volume of resources for direct regional incentives. The Higher Planned Funds are intended to co-finance the Joint Municipal Administrations and, in particular, to increase the growth of cohesion policy funds, which are aimed at implementing regional policy measures with complementary domestic resources and thus fostering a coherent regional development of the country. There is a significant increase in the level of direct incentives. A large proportion of these funds are intended to improve local road and municipal infrastructure and to co-finance investments related to the use of European Union funds. In this area, attention should be paid to the consequences of the envisaged new law on the financing of municipalities. This law will make it possible, or ensure, that funds will flow from less developed sources or that funds for the financing of local communities will be more fairly redistributed throughout the country. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect the successful development of local self-government, which can contribute significantly to our country's other macroeconomic objectives. In particular, in terms of reducing the differences between different regions in Slovenia, we can expect more equitable development, faster economic growth and consequently reduction of social transfers in the currently least developed regions of Slovenia. The other area I want to give him is traffic. For transport programmes, 114.9 billion tolars are planned in 2007. Of this, in 2007 European funds represent 12%. The state of transport and transport infrastructure in Slovenia is well known to all. We all know that the highway cross has already made great progress and that the lack of resources is particularly present in the field of Slovenian Railways and State Roads. These two are also a priority in the budget for the following year and also later in 2008, and we expect after 2008. In particular, we welcome in the Slovenian People's Party a large part of the funds that are intended primarily for public economic services in rail transport. In this way, we will maintain public passenger transport and ensure an adequate level of safety in rail transport, both in person and in freight. For the state road network, 50.6 billion tolars are planned in 2007 and 13% more in relation to the 2007 budget. Most of the funds for state roads are earmarked for investment measures. We expect the planned funds and projects to reduce problems on state roads. Nevertheless, it will also be necessary to continue building or completing the highway cross, as its final construction is important for the even development of Slovenia. I would also like to point out the importance of education as an area that can represent one of the foundations of our further development in Slovenia in the long term. Knowledge is the only good that depends primarily on us, our efforts and our investments in education, especially the higher education system. The funds intended for the further development of science and education are set out both within the budget of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, as well as in certain other ministries dedicated to scientific research in various fields. Major projects of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology include the construction of a political centre in Ljubljana, the University Clinical Centre in Maribor and the National University Library of Jožet Plečnik in Ljubljana. It may also be the beginning of the construction of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. In addition, it should be noted that many smaller projects that will have an important impact on the further development of science are important. We must be aware that investment in science and education will become increasingly important. Regardless of the importance of rail, road infrastructure or regional development, we need to know that all infrastructure alone will not enable us a successful future. This can only provide us with rapid economic growth, which can only be achieved by highly technologically qualified and professional staff. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed budget changes. We will, of course, also support the amendments, in particular those that we have tabled together with the other coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u130	Your Honors are here! According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, budgetary users, both on the side of those who fill the budget, as well as those on the part of the recipients of the budget funds, are seeking some kind of permanent act, i.e. a kind of strong decision on the budget. And the first fact that comes before us today is that we are already talking about a proposal for amendments today, that is, a complementary proposal which, therefore, did not last a year, not even that year that it did not touch. From this title, I must personally attach to all those who have contacted the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and have asked about quality and, above all, the sustainability of the budget for the period 2007. So can they rely on the financial resources provided for in the 2007 budget, or can they sign contracts and already redistribute or use funds from the act before us. If we look at the content or the life course of this act so far, the answer is no in any way. Regrettably, they cannot rely on the credibility of the figures defined under each item in the 2007 budget changes of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introductory explanation of the Slovenian National Party Group, I will not talk about the individual amendments that we have tabled or about the aspirations to amend this Act for a simple reason, because it is a mother's work in which, of course, the Government and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have a majority, the amendments of the Slovenian National Parties have been rejected or even even more, they have not been prepared to discuss them if, of course, the amendments affect the area of the new budget items. In addition, the right vested in the National Assembly after amending the budget and applying the amendments is a new right, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has exclusively, at least on the basis of explanations of the parent working body, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can interfere with the budget which is before us today, with the amendments, by applying the new budget lines; when it does so, it should not be possible to do so. From this title, I can say this with certainty that this is another step of our own when we take the right where the Constitution gives it to us, so we deny ourselves the right to adopt a quality budget, to adopt such a budget that would reflect the will and desire of all budget recipients. And at the same time, allow me, too, but all of us, the criticism that we always forget who was loved in general elections and who reflects the position of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is us 90 Members, not arguing that only colleague Jazbec, that only I, but all of us 90 and that the will of citizens and citizens is not fully reflected by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not elected in the general elections. From this title, ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the ruling parties who deny themselves the right to amend the budget in the form of amendments following the new budget line, this is unacceptable. But enough of this, it is the policy of every political party, whether it takes power, or wants to actively intervene in Slovenian social space. And the Slovenian National Party feels this responsibility towards the electorate and electorate to not stop our activities, but we are trying to bring these activities into the quality of the acts of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly. From this place, allow me to express my request to all of you who renounce this: please do not neglect your constitutional rights. As for the act before us today, we see that in the opening texts, which were also taken up by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, the objective of the 2007 budget is to make the euro strong. Below, the President of the Government, under the highest legal act, highlights and pursues an exclusive objective, namely, the goal of a major achievement for Slovenia and all its citizens, namely entry into the European Union's single monetary system. According to our assessment, only the source of the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia is wrong. Public finances and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia should satisfy the interests of budget users, who are, to a large extent, the very majority of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in physical, legal or any other form arising from the budget lines. Therefore, to satisfy the budget of the Republic of Slovenia exclusively by the institutions of the European Union, and by-products know how to give the users of the budget, and not only the users, but those who fill this budget; and these are our citizens. I don't think so, and so also in the National Party. So much for the starting points that our Government, that is, only the institutions of the European Union, has defined as something extremely bright and something that should be knee-deep for all citizens. In my opinion, it should be the other way around - the responsibility we have to feel for the Slovenes and the Slovenians. The following point was made by the President of the Government with a few arguments, or a few points, which, according to my assessment, could also be interpreted differently. This is an increase in tax amounts. He started by raising his income, continuing to increase his income tax and earning of legal persons, continued to increase his social security contributions, continued to increase his salary tax and work list, and went to indirect taxes in terms of increasing the value added tax, continued with other taxes, goods and services, excise duties, special services taxes, annual road charges and other taxes on the use of goods and services. From this title, boasting about the greater amount of funds obtained through different sources of tax codes could also be defined differently. This is that we have grown weary to the end or that we continue to milk our citizens and citizens in all tax areas. I don't think this can be the goal, but it can't be the fact that we should be bragging about in this National Assembly. Because if one of us knows what such an increase in tax revenues means, on the other hand, it will be realistic to know that an increase in tax revenues is a greater burden for citizens and citizens. This time, at the 2007 budget, I will not be dropping on the already mentioned value added tax and its increased rate in 2008. However, I will touch on those basic parts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia from which the revenue and expenditure side is visible. In the National Party, we continue to assess that the relationship on the revenue side between tax revenues and non-tax revenues cannot be proud of us. The pursuit of the objective and the implementation of the objective, where they represent more than 90% of all revenue tax revenues, cannot be a budget that will pursue competitiveness, economic growth and all those moments that should accompany some quality development in the future of the Republic of Slovenia. If we kept our words on the reality of the data, if we were now in the green, then, ladies and gentlemen, the budget would show this, but not on tax revenues, but on the recent revenues that I will now talk about. In particular, the revenue from participation in profits and dividends of non-financial and financial investments, the shift or shift from the implementation of 2006 to the 2007 plan is minimal and does not reflect the big words of both the President of the Government and the proposed material. The same is true of income from property, where, at least in the framework of the National Party, we receive the feeling that much more friendly integration in the field of concessions than the adoption of a umbrella concession law, which we do not have since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and through which, every year in the form of budgets or half a year in the form of budget rebalancies, we miss or lose the Republic of Slovenia a large amount of money. Allow me to point out the increase in those things that, according to our assessment, at least after the assessment of the National Party's Group of Members, should not be as citizens and citizens to our pride. This is, of course, an increase of over 300 million tax revenues, and since I will talk about the revenue side, of course this means an increase in the tax burden for citizens and citizens. In doing so, I note that for more than 200 million there will be an increase in the estimated value added tax for account 7,040, for over a million dollars in other taxes on goods and services, not to mention excise duties, a tax on special services, not to mention annual road use refunds, motor vehicle taxes and, last but not least, under Account 706 under the second tax code, which will result from an increase of more than 1000%, i.e. a tax increase from the 2006 assessment to 2007. From the continuation of this draft budget, which is before us today, of course, it is imperative to point out, at least after our assessment, the short-term nature of this public financial act and to ask its implications not only for economic development but for the development of the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. Our budget, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to us and has been dealt with very unilaterally on the home working body, contains a comparative analysis within the framework of the skeleton of some type by ministries. From this title, at least to present the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole, I took two random users, i.e. two ministries. Allow me to present to you from this city, and I hope that I will be able to show you the purpose of future regulation of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Ministry of Defence on the one hand and on the other hand the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I believe that from these comparisons there will be an increase in funds, on the one hand, on the other hand, a radical reduction in resources, and you will probably not have to take a long time to find that there will be a radical reduction in resources on individual country lines within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and a radical increase in the Ministry of Defence. Allow me to remind you of the big words and people sitting in the government today and some people sitting in the opposition today about the ratings of the so-called NATO in the pre-referendum period. What will NATO bring us as a military organization? One of the first arguments to convince people during the pre-referendum period was that, of course, Slovenia would reduce costs for its own defence, as part of the defence would be taken over by this new military organisation. Allow me to talk about the actions or the collection of accounts in the context of the 2006 Implementation Assessment and the 2007 Draft Budget, I am talking about a second comparison with the fifth column. From science and technological development, our country will allocate 50% more in 2007 under the Ministry of Defence. In the field of technological development, despite joining military organisations, our country will, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, make more than 100% of the funds allocated in 2006. From the Ministry of Defence, military defence must also be highlighted for these enormously increased resources. And although all the content or address is very well heard, national security, but ladies and ladies, national security, according to these representatives, has already been assured by the peace policy that Slovenia is leading and by joining NATO. From this city, the funds will increase by over 60 million Slovenian tolars and cross that magical border. Furthermore, it is also passionate, this time on purpose, to use, to increase the funds on the balance sheet 07002-1903, namely the provision of staff readiness. Also this item, the content of this item has been defined in the context of the so-called pre-referendum or rather the agit-proportion period for entering the NATO military link. And now, to compare where our country sees the future, and I say that it sees the future within the Ministry of Defence, that is, military matters, and to compare the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which should not be a ministry that any Member could wave with his left hand, because the fact is that it still writes in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia is a social state. Slovenia as a country must take care of all segments of our society. Slovenia as a country should not be concerned - what has been happening lately - exclusively for employers and those who have a capital impact, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its friends. Within this ministry, there are quite a few budget lines that are incomprehensible to us, as they are incomprehensible to all those working in the field of work, in the area of family and, lastly, in the area of social affairs. This is a reduction in resources for the protection of the unemployed. In the area of the protection of the unemployed, as if in this country we did not care if someone is unemployed, let us continue. Public aid does not indicate that this government would care for people who have lost any form of service. We continue to have a reduction in resources for active employment policies, both by almost 10% of the increase in employment and by incentives for the employment of unemployed people. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was unable to avoid the problem of persons with disabilities, as in the context of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities is declining from over 2 billion and a half in the fights by a billion 700. This is a strong reduction in this area and I do not believe that from 2006 to 2007 the same percentage of people with disabilities in our country has been reduced by the same percentage. Further on, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which gave the "gegeny" to this amendment, where Minister Drobnič himself advocated this amendment and confirmed it when his ministry is plaguing it, but I believe that this is understandable to you, it is obviously not only to the Members of the National Party. In doing so, I would like to inform you that no funds are allocated to replace the cost of maintaining jobs in the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the "self-employment assistance" item. Is this a concern for active policy or is it a concern for combating the unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia? One of the things that we find incomprehensible is, of course, what the predecessors have left us. The predecessors have, of course, left us much, some of which is also a cultural heritage and that in this area, within this Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is reducing funds, and I believe that this cannot be proud of this government, not all those who will be supported by this act, so the budget. I will not continue to talk about the signs of the 1991 war on Slovenia, which are falling, and I hope that this reduction does not mean embarrassing this period, because it would only be too much. But if we were to monitor the financial resources that are earmarked, then we could come to that knowledge. I'm afraid we could come. It is interesting, however, that, in the same context and in the same amount of the budget, there is a new Slovenian commitment, or the balance item 6442. You probably know where I'm going, or I hope all those who follow us know where I'm going. The education sector, the regulation of the education system within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is also falling, reducing by more than 60 % and, I apologize, by over 18% from the implementation of 2006 to the draft budget for 2007. It is also in the area of social protection, in the field of child and family protection, where financial resources are being reduced under the heading "other family benefits" and not least in the area of fostering. So much for caring for children and those who do not have all the happiness that some of us have. And it's funny or naturally sad that we have a minister who, on the one hand, is doing his best in the field of work, family and social affairs, while we see that he can't defend his amendment or the budget part of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in this form, so that this ministry, which deals with work, social and family, can get some more money. In exchange for what I've shown you before, the Ministry of Defence behaves differently, i.e. for military matters. We will not support this proposal for amending the 2007 budget from many other addresses in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all Mr. Ministers and the entire government team, fellow Members and Members! We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much for the president's words. Since it is undeniable that many meetings or meetings of working bodies and other meetings and coordination have been held, all possible numbers, relations, comparisons and so on may not have to be renumbered, it is more important for us to emphasise what is more important in the view of the DeSUS Group of Members, which will support some amendments that will also support the proposal for a budget rebalancing. We all probably agree that we are accepting this balance in the context of the circumstances which, at least as regards the economies, as regards public finances, as regards the reduction of the burdens that we call unemployment and some other important trends in us, so that the situation is relatively favourable from this point of view. This is not just stated by government representatives; others also admit it. The difference is, who takes credit for it? Is it now, or has it been prepared by the previous government, as if it were not always so that things are being prepared in some kind of confrontation and even under control, under the control of those who were either before or now in a position when opposition Members and Members of Parliament are? It is more important for our parliamentary group than for the car to be evaluated, to find out what is good, what can be done to keep good trends, and what can be done to make the proposed budget or budget rebalancing even better. The government argues that the budget is balanced, that it is structurally harmonised, that it is balanced, that it is development-oriented and that it is even cost-effective. The opposite assessment is, even today, heard several times that it is costly, that it is completely undeveloped, that structural relations are broken and so on. That such a way of accepting the balance is probably not the best and does not contribute to the acceptance of any good amendments proposed by the opposition. We in the DeSUS Group are still satisfied with some things in the coordination process. We are pleased that some of our proposals have also been taken into account, that they have even been confirmed in the form of amendments and that some other amendments have been adopted. Above all, we are pleased to see that funds are being increased to care for institutional protection, as well as investments or rehabilitations and adaptations to the homes of the elderly; and we will also be looking to see whether this will then be carried out as we expect. We are pleased or pleased that many, even coalition amendments, have been adopted to strengthen the positions of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, and there is nothing to regret about the local colour of these amendments. What amendments are supposed to be about roads, bridges, hills and so on, if not painted locally? The abstract probably didn't. And also those amendments proposed by the opposition MPs are all contaminated, so to speak, by their location. And that's perfectly normal. The only problem is whether all the opposition amendments had to be rejected and whether it would be better to agree really so that the profession could have a slightly lower weight and political coordination. However, everything shows that we are not capable of a coordinated budget in a different way than in the way we are now adopting the budget. We also favour amendments aimed at a better attitude towards environmental protection, including some other social protection amendments. We would be happy if there were more resources for housing; even a number of positive aspects would have this for both social and developmental levels in Slovenia. We would be happy if more amendments were supported in the area of environmental protection, for example, if there were more funding for parks [[End warning sign]] If there were more resources for education, as well as for social programmes for schoolchildren and students. We will also be pleased if you accept the two amendments that we will insist on, namely the amendment concerning the Ombudsman of Human Rights, both children and patients, and the amendment, which speaks of the need to ensure that the minimum means are provided so that the Medical Faculty in Maribor can start building normally in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u133	Time's up, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u134	More about that after the amendments are in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Pozsoncheva has the floor, on behalf of the national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u136	Nice greetings to all present! In the 2007 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so much funding has been earmarked for the national communities as in previous years, plus a few wrinkle percentages of nominal growth. This means that only the survival of the institutions of the national community, schools and cultural institutions can live with this money. The amount of funds in these items has been created in a manner that does not require the needs, plans of the national communities and how they see their further work. Therefore, we cannot make our own life and development. For free, we remind the Government or budget preparers of compliance with Article 15 of the Law on Self-Governmental Communities. Nor in the following year will there be an opportunity for economic development, to reduce unemployment and to increase production in our area. The river will continue to apply, far from the eyes, away from the heart, so we will remain undeveloped. The Commission for National Communities was of the opinion that instead of amendments, the Government or budget preparers should be reminded of the needs of the national communities. These expressed a desire for an additional 25 million SIT, which is for the state of change. We note that we have warned for free, we have hoped for free, and we have justified these needs for free because the numbers have remained unchanged. What should I say about such a budget? Nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. And he will be the last to present the SDS position, Mr Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u138	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone. Some 2 years have passed since the current coalition gained the confidence of citizens and thus the mandate to manage public affairs. We did so with great patience and perseverance, discreetly, responsibly. There have been changes in the country that have not been used by citizens, and they may not have been expected, as many of our pre-election promises have not been taken seriously. It's supposed to be just promises like any other, but it's not. In two years we have shown that we are the right team, that we know very sensitive, timely and reasonable to make the right moves. No area remained intact, there were positive developments everywhere, and also trends, i.e. perspectives, are very much or more - even extremely favourable. Of course, it didn't go well, and it doesn't go smoothly without effort and concerns, sometimes there are differences in the coalition. Much greater and more uncritical opposition to government and coalition proposals is triggered by a political elite who, after more than a decade, had to go to the trenches and have to defend its projects, ideas, marriage solutions, past decisions and more. While the uncritical opposition to the good solutions to the coalition is understandable, the great differences between the results of this and the previous coalitions would appear too obvious, so there are so many accusations, hints, personal attacks and more. Something similar is happening today. However, reforms have taken effect. Its estimated effects are included in the amending budget for 2007. Even greater and even more positive will be their impact in the coming years. This is actually the first time we have encountered a serious concept of restructuring budgetary revenue and expenditure and saving in public administration. It must be acknowledged that this is a very difficult task, which takes up a lot of time and for which much effort is needed, but the effort is not in vain. We have found ways to make the economy and individuals more sustainable and evenly burdened without undermining the balance and need on the spending side. In doing so, I cannot avoid comparisons with previous coalitions. These have dealt with public financial matters in a much different way and have taken simpler ways. When money was needed, two routes were used: debts, usually with a poor depreciation plan, or increases in taxes, of course those of the most direct, simple and recoverable taxes such as profit tax, payroll and income. This was logical, since the records and controls were extremely weak. The last taxes were very extreme. Public spending, red tape, savings and other less pleasant moves were not pursued. At the same time, it is necessary to say that we are also hiring loans now, but with an important difference. Credit the rental almost exclusively for motorway projects that have a source of return or coverage under the adopted national programme. However, it is difficult to imagine what the budget would look like next year if we did not tackle administrative obstacles, remove obstacles to certain types of public procurement, which have greatly simplified and reduced appeals procedures if we did not start to regulate the public sector's functions, directors and other salaries, to restructure taxes and more. What would be the guarantee of citizens and the "increasing" of some Members if they failed to reduce the costs of public authority or eliminate certain services that are not available anywhere in the world? Also because of these and a number of other measures, there will be more money left to the State and citizens for more productive purposes. A stable macroeconomic environment is very encouraging for the planning and implementation of the budget for next year. The most important indicators have more favourable trends than the countries we want to approach. We are not facing a social crisis, we have high economic growth, inflation is falling, wages are growing real and developmental backlogs are falling behind the developed members of the European Union. Therefore, without painful moves, we can also implement reforms and consequently restructure the budget. Business security is growing, foreign interest in investment in Slovenia is increasing. The government is working towards closer cooperation with important countries or economies, such as Russia or some Arab countries. It is also important for the public and the profession to show information that is different for domestic use and for the purposes of the European Union. While the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is drawn up in accordance with the principle of cash flows or payments, data shall be communicated to Brussels on the basis of the European ESA 95 methodology, which is based on the occurrence of an obligation or event. The ESA 95 deficit and public debt report must include other central government units, such as various funds, pension and health insurance, a local level; and a consolidated balance sheet of the country must also be shown. Different data capture and reporting also differs slightly between the ESA 95 reporting and the domestic reporting. The fact is, however, that we have a strong trend in reducing the deficit and debt of the whole country sector. In 2002, the country's central deficit after the audit was 2.5% of GDP and at the end of this year it will be only 1.7% of GDP, which means that it will decrease by at least 32% in four years. In this government's mandate, the deficit will be only around 1.55% of GDP on average, or about half less than in the past period. Such comparisons are particularly important for the reality of the debate, and this suggests that the many fears raised by the economic opposition profession in the National Assembly are unfounded. While amending the 2007 budget slightly reduces the overall volume of revenue, significantly more overall expenditure, thus reducing the budget deficit by around €70 million according to the national methodology in 2007; and is planned at 1%. Another key indicator, reflecting the state of public finances, is the country's debt measured in the proportion of GDP. This category also does not increase during the period of this Government. Moreover, the share of central government debt in GDP is declining. In 2002, central government units together showed a debt of 28.3% of gross social product; by 2005, this debt, despite taking over the entire debt of the health insurance company and pension insurance company, had decreased to 27.7% of GDP. The estimates and forecasts show that the unconsolidated debt of the Central State will amount to 28.8% at the end of this year. So the direction is positive, the aggregate fiscal discipline of the state is improving, the state finances are stable. Inflation, which is extremely hard for each economy, is also growing mainly in the Maastricht framework, despite the high price of energy and some raw materials. It's more comfortable than we could have expected, and nothing shows that she's going to jump the critical limit. For this government and this coalition, this is extremely encouraging. Finally, we are the first and once again the only new member of the European Union to take over the euro, and we are also the first to adopt and implement the budget in this highly desirable European currency. Given that data on economic growth, which is essential to the growth of European economies, the EU of economies, have been extremely encouraging over the past two years, our satisfaction is even greater. Especially since the projection or forecast is very promising. High economic growth makes the country's financial operations stable and offers much more optimism to the economy. It is extremely encouraging to increase the number of new businesses and to significantly increase the involvement in the employment relationship, resulting in the reduction of species at work offices. This increases the social and economic security of citizens. Trade unions should also be pleased, as their objectives are also being accelerated. Increasing employment reduces the prospects for vulnerable groups, and economic growth makes it possible to create better and better paid jobs, which is primarily a challenge for young people, and ultimately wages are increasing. The standard is improving, and these are in fact the objectives of any healthy policy. Tax reform brings additional incentives to economic operators, businesses and independent entrepreneurs. Tax burdens will allow for more investment in development and investment. Income relief, in particular in the field of standardised costs, is certainly a challenge that entrepreneurs or craftsmen will take advantage of. Small businesses and family businesses can be expected to increase. This measure is certainly an important step towards promoting healthy entrepreneurship. That is also why this tax reform has encountered a very positive response from the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce. With the 2007 budget, we will reduce the planned share of tax revenue in the social gross product. Their share will fall from 22.6% of GDP in 2006 to 21.4% in 2007. More than 5% of the reduction in the share of taxes in gross social product imposes a tax drawback. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u139	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr. Tanko only has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u140	All we can say is, finally! The increase in the share of corporate profits over the last two years is due to the adoption of the Law on corporate income tax in 2004, as it is now, according to the Rope Government, the aim was to raise effective taxation of profits. The effects of this change are only known this year, but no major increases are expected in the coming year. Otherwise, a law has already been passed which will gradually reduce the taxation of profits from 25 to 20% over the next three years. However, it is important that there will be no need to increase VAT rates in 2007, which means that this government and coalition will not undermine consumption, so that there will be no reason to buy abroad. There is also a substantial increase in European Union revenue of EUR 172 million in 2007, with a projected drawdown of EUR 582 million, or 42% more than the use of this year's funds, thus improving the EU membership balance. The simplification of tax procedures already adopted will result in a reduction of administrative tax duties for the taxpayers and the tax administration. Part of the employees in companies that have so far dealt with over-the-counter records will deal with more productive parts such as value added and economic growth. All these and other tax and administrative changes will have positive effects on public finances in the area of social transfers. Reducing the number of unemployed, improved records in this area, limiting the building of transfers and what will certainly affect the volume of transfers. We estimate that changes in the tax, economic and social spheres will help to restructure budget expenditure due to economic results or successes and not by reducing social rights, as we have listened to in the last period. The success of government policies will therefore be the one that will contribute to the reduction of the necessary funds for social transfers, not to the reduction of social rights. Tax conditions will also be significantly better for cultural workers and so-called free professions. The former governments had a great deal of declaratory understanding for this area, but they have done little for it. In summary, I will touch on some of the more important developments that this coalition has made on the expenditure side of the 2007 State budget. In fact, it has joined the implementation of coherent regional development, helping to substantially increase resources for local self-government, for state roads, including railways, for investments under the Green Borders Programme and for support to agricultural measures. An important proportion of the measures are provided for by EU funds. Small congregations were also noticeably inhaled. There is also a significant increase in funds for economic incentives, especially for small economies and tourism, to improve competitiveness and develop a broadband network for electronic communications. In particular, it is worth noting that the ratio between expenditure on development programmes and fixed liabilities at the Ministry of the Economy is increasing to 70 to 30 in favour of development. Development funds are therefore 2.3 times more than fixed liabilities. Structural movements are also proposed in the area of work, family and social protection. Greater resources for active employment policies combined with economic and tax measures have a lower unemployment effect, as they also have an impact on the extent of the resources needed for the unemployed and therefore have an even greater impact on family policy, scholarships, social protection programmes. In so doing, if we say that there are significantly increased funding for primary and hospital health education and for investment in health care and for the regulation of municipal or environmental infrastructure and for the removal of environmental burdens and that complex bureaucratic procedures are streamlined, then we can certainly attach them to those who say that the policy of this coalition is development-oriented and human-oriented. More resources in the judiciary will also have to be reflected in greater legal certainty and better administrative standards, i.e. the abolition of judicial backlogs and the provision of a trial within a reasonable time frame, could also be listed. In short, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group estimates that the 2007 budget will take important structural steps that, when European funds are effectively drawn up and the gradual implementation of the public-private partnership and the planned foreign investment, will allow for high trends in macroeconomic indicators that will translate into economic and other systems and increase the security and standard of citizens, so that we will adopt changes in the 2007 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and continue with the debate on the individual parts of the Draft Amendments to the State Budget, namely the general work, the specific work and the development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the draft amending budget. As you know, Members can report electronically to the debate by pressing the appropriate key and by raising their hands. I'm opening the first round of debate. Two fellow Members have the floor, the first Mr Veršnik, and then the Mag. Squeak. Mr. Versnik, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. The 2007 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia totals EUR 6.8 billion in tax revenue, representing 21.4% of GDP. Tax revenues have been reduced by a total of 54.5 billion tolars in 2007 according to the 2007 budget adopted. Initially planned tax revenues had to be reduced by 38 billion toll on income taxes in order to enforce the new Income Law, which reduces income rates. However, the increase in revenue is projected for excise duties, totalling 1.6 billion or 14%, since Slovenia must, as we have already heard today, introduce in 2007 a transitional period, which it originally agreed with the EU, for electricity, natural gas, coal and coke, in line with the 2003 European Directive. However, excise duties on tobacco products will also be increased to the prescribed minimum levels. EUR 25.6 billion is the financial impact of excise duty on cigarettes, which will achieve the minimum excise duty prescribed by the EU directives, estimated at EUR 17.9 million. Revenue from VAT is planned in the 2007 revised budget, compared to 2006 higher by 6.1%. In the 2007 budget, the projected VAT increase does not need to be implemented as higher than originally expected revenue from corporate income tax will be higher in 2006 than in 2005. In 2007, however, according to the budget already adopted, they were increased by an additional 3%. The increase in the share of corporate profits over the last two years, in my opinion, is unduly problematic. It should be noted, however, that in 2004 the amendments to the Law on corporate income tax were welcomed by almost all political parties, as well as most economic experts, with the aim of increasing effective taxation of profits. At that time, it was found that the profits of Slovenian companies over the past years due to numerous reliefs, compared to other countries, were effectively very low. At a nominal rate of 25%, this rate was effective, 12% non-taxable. The effects of the amendments to this Act are known due to the annual accounting of the late profit tax, in particular for 2006, while in 2007 there is no expectation of a higher increase in income than planned. With recent amendments to the Income Tax Act, the nominal rate of corporate income taxation is reduced from 25 to 23, the expected effects of these changes are planned by the Government in the 2008 budget. However, with regard to the 2007 budget changes, it is important to increase the revenue planned from EU funds by 41.3 billion. This is how the government plans that in 2007 our country will benefit from a total of 139 billion tolls of European funds, which is 92% higher in 2005 and 42% higher in 2006. The planned increase and use of European funds means a great obligation for our country or for all participants in the use of European funds. If we look at the expenditure, the expenditure in the 2007 proposal for the revised budget fell by 17.2 billion dollars in total, totalling 8 billion euros. With the 2007 budget changes, the increase in budgetary expenditure is foreseen for all ministries, with the exception of a smaller reduction in the Ministry of Health, and expenditure is planned for the Ministry of Finance according to the adopted budget. A reduction in budget expenditure is foreseen for EU funding by 11 billion tolar, according to the budget adopted. At home interest rates of 3 billion and at the 2007 budget reserve line of 8.3 billion. An increase in expenditure or budgetary expenditure is foreseen in the 2007 revised budget mainly for investment expenditure of 25.3 billion and investment transfers of 16.0 billion. Such changes in expenditure 2007 mean stimulating development or investment spending. Individual structural changes in expenditure by ministries and their programmes or sub-programmes are shown in amendments to the specific part of the 2007 budget or in parts of the budget or financial plans of ministries. Ministers have already presented them to the Committees of the National Assembly, and the working bodies of the National Assembly have approved them or approved them. The general conclusion is that the proposed structural changes in the use of budgetary resources in relation to the 2007 budget are aimed at developing the tasks and programmes of individual departments with the aim of implementing the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia and meeting the obligations of the country which are the result of our EU and NATO membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u144	When we are discussing the general part of the budget, it must first be made clear that this budget is not entirely cost-effective. Revenues in 2007 will be 7.8 billion, and you, Mr Veršnik, will look at the wrong line, which is about 400 million euros more compared to the realisation one year ago, 2005. In doing so, it must be said that, in view of today's debate on the Law on the Financing of the Communities, we have a very unusual situation. We have declared the income of the state budget and we will withdraw it from the municipalities by means of the Budget Implementation Act, but this is not in the State budget. Only €891 million of income is included in the state budget, which will remain in the state budget. The revenue, which, of course, should be deducted from the source of the municipalities, is not in the state budget. This is simply called the abolition of the principle of gross cash flow and the Minister is in total contradiction with Article 2 of the Public Finance Act. In this regard, I think it would be necessary to get an appropriate response and also get an appropriate opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which is very simple: How will the Law on the Implementation of the Budget give the municipalities 800 and so many millions of euros to the State budget? There is no such expenditure in this state budget today. Secondly, what is true in this regard is that, as a result of this, the image of tax revenues seems to be slightly more appropriate than my colleague said before, tax revenues together seem to be less than about 50 billion tolars, but that is simply not true. These tax revenues are not in the State budget because the state would save, but because it simply did not write them in the revenue so that it could give them to the municipalities later. This is a serious issue of legal subjectivity and who now owns 100% of income on income from income when we abolish the legal possibility of municipalities getting at least 35, today we have proposed at least 37% of income. However, it is very clear that the 2007 budget is more generous than either the realisation or the past period in what the country receives, generous for the country and, of course, cheap for businesses, because in this budget we will have income from corporate tax for a billion euros compared to EUR 500 million in 2004 or EUR 594 million in 2005. Important 100% higher taxation of the economy. And then it's just a matter of general work, or we're going to discuss the European Union, this so-called high expectations. In 2005, the actual realisation of the funds received from the European Union, mainly for the implementation of the common agricultural policy and to a certain extent pre-accession funds and the title of flat-rate refunds, was around EUR 300 million. The government is counting on ministers not to be too thorough on the request and on the budgetary debate that these funds be made available from the European Union in accordance with the principle of cash flows, I stress, in accordance with the principle of cash flows, Mr Minister, not the principle of the occurrence of a business event, which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] EUR million or almost EUR 1,500 billion. [[...]] If I can go on - expenses, expenses. In the State budget, it is best to see how the country is not austerity, for individual economic expenditure items such as salaries, where EUR 891 million is projected for salaries or EUR 42 million more than in 2006, or as was first estimated in 2006 to be in 2007. So 900 million euros for wages. It is important to increase both in terms of implementation for 2006 and in terms of the budget adopted. If we compared the implementation in 2006 with the draft amending budget for 2007, we would see that it is increasing by more than €60 million. This is not a savings budget. And a similar story is, for example, at material costs. The general office material, which the Government has spent 100 million euros in 2006, will spend 115 million euros in 2007, twice as much as the nominal growth of gross domestic product. Subsidies, similar story. That is why, of course, we say, the budget which increases the taxation of the economy does so because, on the expenditure side, it is not cost-effective for the expenditure that is meant to limit the appetites of the country, but mainly for these expenses, and therefore we will oppose this general work. We ask for clarifications from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we also ask that we receive an appropriate explanation in this case also of the Legislative and Legal Services on the appropriate exercise or non-representation, because there is no, in the national budget of the decommissioned municipalities, as set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, to emphasise, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And I don't know how the minister is going to give 880 million euros to the municipalities during his budget. However, if the intention was untransparent to hide the relationship between the municipalities and the state, this is first and foremost contrary to the laws and also contrary to the principles which this Government has advocated, and these were, above all, principles of greater transparency. Please, if I can get an answer from the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new round of debate. And if a government representative wants to come forward, let him show it with his hand. You may also now, Minister, but please raise your hand, in accordance with the procedure. Thank you very much. I would first invite the Minister to answer, and then I would like to give the floor to my colleague Mr Pecchet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Several questions have been raised, particularly the re-representation of the same claim that we have heard several times. Let me repeat what I have already presented when we discussed the budget memorandum in this National Assembly a month ago, and this is how to compare what it is, how to actually figure out what is going on with public consumption. As far as public spending is concerned, it is intermediate for a person to make a comparison of what it is like to spend without European funds or without what Slovenia puts in the budget, because it is only by doing so that it can be comparable to the past. And if we are looking at this data - and this is table 4 on page 8 in the 2007 and 2008 budget memorandum - this is clearly also highlighted here, in 2001, including up to 2004, this public consumption was between 44% of GDP and 43.6 There were 44 and 43.6 twice. On average, 43.8. If we then compare with this 2008 budget proposal in this indent, if we exclude what our contributions to the European Union are, because then, as public spending can be compared, this is 41.9, this is actually saying 1.9% less public spending; and this is very close to this 1.9, as the Government has set itself. And as I have already explained, in fact, we will be able to compare this data when real GDP data, how much real economic growth will increase in the coming years, then we will be able to see it definitively. But there's no point in saying nothing's going on here. As far as the role is concerned, what is the share of tax revenue in our public finances? It is crucial that we take note of one fact that the Government is still working hard to always present to you the whole picture of public finances, that is to say all four cash accounts, not just the budget, and then ZPIZ, on the one hand, health insurance and the municipalities, these are the key four cash registers of our public finances, but that we are always looking at the whole because part of what we inherited when we took these responsibilities, but the liabilities in the ZPIZ and the health treasury, because it was "parked" in some way and it was not presented as part of the whole. So if we look at tax revenues in the consolidated balance sheet, this is said to be the whole, they are actually falling by 1.6% of GDP in 2008, compared to what we estimate will happen in 2006. And why do we have to look at it like that? Because there really is a different assessment here. Certain Members of Parliament have raised the question that this would be a violation of the law. These are not the funds of the State that will be transferred to the municipalities, but on the basis of the law that this will be adopted, namely the law that you have already dealt with, in the Law on the Financing of the Communities, the share of the municipalities will only be as determined. And on the basis of this share, we can give these funds directly to the municipalities on the basis of a key or system that the law itself will enforce. So, here it is not in our assessment of some violation of the gross principle, because these are not funds that should be fully demonstrated in the country, but then directed to the municipalities, but rather directly tax administration will have to direct a certain proportion to the municipalities; and that is exactly what it was intended to achieve. So this is my answer to these questions that have been asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. And Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u148	Notwithstanding the responses of the Minister of Finance in that part which touched on so-called tax revenues, it is likely that in the 2007 Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, an account of 70 tax revenues is included in the 2007 Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. From this title, I would also like to remind you and one of the ruling Members who spoke about the reduction in these funds in the draft amending the 2007 budget. It is not true that these funds are falling; therefore, less money will come from the tax revenues to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia through the revenue side. This is, of course, only if we want to mislead Slovenian public and, of course, Members of Parliament, but I am afraid that you want to deceive yourself as well. The fact is that if we want to take a real look at the image of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, we need to take the 2006 reality assessment as the starting point. Because the only assessment of the 2006 implementation can be, in a given situation this year, as we continue to be in 2006, credible data and in no way can there be a change in the 2007 budget in horizontal and vertical column 4 of the data through which the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or, finally, the government Members would argue that there will be a reduction. Specific information on how much tax revenue will increase by EUR 117 million in 2007 through the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. You make the calculation very easy, from your numbers to the final amount, i.e. 6 billion 782 and so on, minus the 2006 reality assessment. In short, in 2006 they will not hold the announcement or claim of one of the government Members who spoke in the first round about tax revenue cuts, but, on the contrary, an increase in tax revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new circle. Excuse me, Mr. Veršnik. Replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u150	I'm sorry. I was very specifically mentioned, not by name and surname, but even with a hint. Just two words to repeat what I said. Now, please, Mr. Ambassador, if you will listen. Tax revenues have fallen by a total of 54.4 billion in 2007 according to the 2007 budget adopted, and that is what I have said and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u151	Let me just explain. So the practice is to give the replica even if someone spoke in the first, second, third round, then of course it is misunderstood in the fourth, which is why I gave Mr Veršnik a replica. Mr. Pece, you know I can't give you a replica. But I suggest you sign up for a new rerun that I'm opening now. Please, the application is in progress. Thank you very much. We have four debaters plus a minister. It's Mr. Testen's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. I must say that we are extremely pleased that the 2007 budget and the budget balance on the revenue side are almost equivalent. The difference is in a bit of an internal structure, but the budget itself is almost one million euros. As far as this internal structure is concerned, I must say, those of you who participated in the adoption of the previous 2007 budget, you know the situations in which we have accepted it. It was a very unclear situation as regards the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013, and I think the assessment of the Government was very good at the time and also that we adopted a very good budget on the revenue side. As far as tax revenues are concerned, which we are talking about today. If we calculate tax revenues based on tax legislation adopted in 2004 and tax revenues calculated on the basis of current legislation, the difference is obvious; surely for at least EUR 500 million. There is a very big difference, so I would ask all those who say that these revenues have not been reduced, that they are trying to calculate a little bit, and they will figure out for themselves what the difference is. The impact of tax legislation is certainly very great, but it will be even greater in 2008, when the tax on legal persons will also have a major impact, so that I think the budget will nevertheless be very good and effective. As far as the expenses are concerned. I must say right now that I will not support much of the amendments they take on state roads. I will not support this because I think it has taken us a long time to conclude that state roads are undernourished, that state roads need to be restored, that they are poorly maintained, so I will not support all those amendments that interfere with the sphere of state roads. There has been a lot of talk - although not so intensely today - about defence that it is too much for defence. The reasons why so much money has been given to defend itself are well-known, and this is also the history that has followed since the entry into the European Union. But I'd like to point out one more thing. We spent a lot of money in 2007 as well as in 2006 on regulating the Schengen border. Earlier, when some views were presented, it was said that we had also benefited poorly from the European funds under this heading. I would like to say that the European funds from the Schengen border, according to my behaviour, were problematic because we did certain things before we entered the European Union and we failed to do so and will not be able to obtain them from this address. It was a mistake from the former government, and I think we need to deal with it. I said before that we are extremely pleased that a lot of resources are being allocated in the field of the economy. In particular, I would like to mention tourism in particular, including for the development of a small economy, and, most importantly, large funds are invested in technological development in the area of three ministries, which is certainly useful and will help Slovenia to maintain at least comparable high economic growth, as is currently the case. The 2007 forecast is 4.3, and we are sure it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Pechet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u154	Thank you. I sincerely hope that some Members are joking in their discussions not to speak out of ignorance, because that would be a disaster. My colleague, Comrade Cyril Testen, has stated that, under the 2000 tax laws, revenue will have to be calculated to date. This seems quite jaded to me, given that the calculation was made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Finance is showing us this calculation in the draft budget. And once again, thirdly, the final result of this calculation is under tax revenue. Tax revenues have increased by EUR 117 million from 2006 to 2007, a simple calculation that I believe I will not have to repeat for the third time that you will get it. However, since I can see that you are nodding and that I am saving you a replica, and allow me to do so, it is about as if Slovenia decided to buy an extremely expensive plane in the next year, in half a year it will decide to buy a little more expensive, but the fact remains that it will buy it, the final result is the difference from the current situation to the future and until the moment in the future in 2007 tax revenues from this title are increasing by EUR 117 million. Who will pay these tax revenues, but I believe that I really don't have to say this conceptually: they will be citizens and citizens. As for the defence and the increase in resources within the Ministry of Defence, I am pleased that you have been so attentive and accompanied by the opening presentation of the Slovenian National Party. I am just sorry that you did not follow the presentation in connection with the reduction of funds within the Ministry of Labour, the family, the social affairs - the minister belonging to your client. But I just wanted to say one thing: we all have to be afraid of so many uncreditable people who two years ago all claimed that Slovenia would pay less for defence if it entered NATO. Today we see that this is not by increasing funds for defence and this has been the subject of criticism by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u156	Very briefly. This misleading of some that there will be no or that there will be even a so-called reduction in the volume of tax resources in the state budget is simply because it has not been transparently demonstrated what they are, I quote, 'the revenue of the state budget'. The law on the implementation of the budget, Mr Minister, is very clear that no more than their original revenues are deducted from the following taxes, which are in accordance with the law the revenue of the state budget. So first of all, income - income of 885 million euros, and then this is resigned. And if you know the left and right sides of the balance sheet, then you will know that the left should show these 885 million as income and the right as expenditure, if you show it, then it would be clear that the tax burden of Slovenian taxpayers is significantly higher even after the income change. That is why we object to untransparent, inadequate performance. These taxpayers pay higher taxes on income, excise duties, corporate income tax and so on. And when we look at the individual categories, we'll see that the tax burden is much higher. That you decided to give something more to the municipalities is the next step; but first you pick up and therefore we say that this is a budget that greatly increases the tax burden mainly with some, as we have found, taxes on the income of legal persons, even some of the unique events are here, and this money is happily spent on the expenditure side. This is therefore unrealistic, given the 38th Article of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, and also the inadequate budget. Just one last thought to the Minister. If what it says here were to be written in the Law on the Financing of the Communities, it might be "drink water", but here you wrote in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. You are carrying out a balance of revenue and expenditure of the legal person of the Republic of Slovenia who has their income as the revenue of the state budget of 885 million euros and then resign. If you don't understand this, I'm afraid I can't help it, but I suggest we draw up an account and see how untransparent you've hidden 885 million euros against the gross statement principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Given the content of the debate, I give the floor to Dr. Bajuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope to receive attention now, because I will repeat what I said before, and it seems that some have not listened. When we say that the burden of public finances has actually decreased, we are talking about the consolidated balance sheet of the Republic of Slovenia. This is said to be the budget, the ZPIZ, the pension treasury, the health treasury and the municipalities. And this is clearly shown in the document that is available to you here and is part of the debate, is in the tables and I also quote, Table 4, where it is clearly shown what it is actually about. Tax revenues as a share of this consolidated balance sheet will actually decrease by slightly more than 1.6% of the gross domestic product compared to the current 2006 estimate. Let me also reply to another honourable Member, who compares or wants to measure the impact of taxes, only with absolute figures. That's obviously impossible. From every professional point of view, it is always necessary that, if we measure the burden, we have to look at it in accordance with or against the gross domestic product. And when we look at the gross domestic product and compare it with a consolidated balance not only with the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, then the situation is what I have already shown again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. And Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In fact, here we all understand too well that closing the state budget and, in general, the balance sheet of public finances is a complicated thing. Except for some who believe that this is primarily a matter of agreement, we all know that this is a matter of overcoming the powers of ministers, areas and seriously expressed priorities of those who rule. What bothers me in these balance sheets that we have ahead of us is the obvious underestimation of some areas, and we will talk about it later, and in some additions we are actually making a concrete contribution to these areas. This time, however, let me point out that I am personally surprised by why and how the Government, when it allocates funds for transfers to public institutions, leaves out the necessary resources for higher education. The budget is an act which is, in fact, the truth of the words on reforms and is also the distilled truth of Slovenia's intention and is, unfortunately, a sign of the future of this country. If there is a shortage of good €4 million per area in these balance sheets, and this €4 million is also missing in accordance with the regulation applicable and binding to this Government for the activities of higher education in this country, this is a very eloquent message, ladies and gentlemen, on the future intentions of this country. 68. Article 68 of the Regulation explicitly states how much funding must be earmarked for activities not in the area of higher education, but specifically for activities. The university has done these calculations, where people who don't know the budget since yesterday have been doing it for a long time, and when we repeated these calculations, it turns out that the University is right. We have warned the Minister about this, but what we have seen is that, behind the back of higher education institutions in this country, a regulation has been drawn up to correct the regulation in order for the budget to be in line with the regulation. The government has stopped the adoption of this regulation after it has encountered resistance to the entire higher education area, so today we have a situation that is very simple. What is written here is not in accordance with the obligations of this country, as the Regulation still applies. I would expect you, Mr Minister of Finance, because I believe you are serious about talking about the future of Slovenia in knowledge. And that what the European Union is talking about very seriously last, let's say, decade, is not a simple empty flossule. In this area, if we do not grow faster than has been agreed with higher education institutions, we should grow at least as quickly as we have committed ourselves to the act which binds this country. Allowing derogations at this point seems to me to be harmful in the long term. We're gonna have a headache because that's what we're doing. If these funds were to be around enough for some normal development of this sector in this country, if this sector were not to be competitive with anyone in Europe, if our students did not go to study outside the country and would not normally return to Slovenia, then at least we should ensure that. We should grow here faster than what a commitment is. I say again: think about it. The supplements are even filed. It would be good if at least what has been recalculated x-fold without concealing and concealing with other data, if, in the research, we give this, and in the investment, we give what you put into the activity what is to be put into the activity. And rather than getting involved in a backlog of regulations, let him make sure that he provides the funds he owes him. Another area that I am concerned about, and I think it speaks about the sensitivity of this Parliament and the authorities in this country in general, is a much smaller area, financial for the state budget is irrelevant and the message is very important. I'm talking about transfers in the part where we allocate funds to the poorest, for those who can't afford a single meal during school, that these funds are too low. I don't have any illusions, and I've never talked about it, unlike some who are sitting here today in this Parliament, that it's possible to distribute free of charge hot meals in the country to all children; I don't think it comes to my mind to explain how to give without pay daycare to all, nothing like this has ever gone on my mind, because I know that financial structures are very serious matters and that they are development and that there are priorities and that this needs to be coordinated. But what I think, Mr. Finance Minister, is that you agree with me, that probably at least ten percent of the most need to get a hot meal in this country, rather than discussing whether a year later any of our aircraft will fly to heaven - costs incomparable, we are talking about amounts that are in a couple hundred thousand euros, because now we are talking about euros already expressed. I'd like to ask you if you're trying to think about it. You'll also find this in additions that are supposed to correct these balance sheets at the end that we have here before us. I expect you to take this seriously, and we will not hear any speculation on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Well, our special part is still waiting for the amendments, and now we're still at general work. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening a debate. We would start with the Minister and then continue with the two State Secretaries and then with the Members who have been notified. Please, Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I would only briefly explain for 2007 and 2006, if I made a comparison on this item you mentioned, this is item 5.7.3.7 of the higher education activity that we were changing, was in 2006 - 46 billion 966.1301 and in 2007 49 billion 145 thousand 597. This difference is 4.9% if we interpret the regulation in the part that it says is 2.5% above the real value. If we subtract inflation, which was determined in the SURS 2.1%, this is an increase of 2.8%, which is more than 2.5%. So in this part, the marriage is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. I'll give you my word if you don't mind. If Dr. Gaber wants a replica, then he wants it. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Please, please, please, there's no need for a replica to be named. [[...]] Read it, please. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] No, that's not new, and that's what Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure says. Please read it. [[...]] I've quoted him a few times before, and now I won't have him short-circuited. It is not a condition for appointment, a condition for misinterpretation or misinterpretation. Please read the rules of procedure. Dr. Gaber, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear fellow Minister, see, the regulation continues to say, I quote: "The annual budget for the study activity referred to in Article 3 of this Regulation shall be increased at least annually" - not by 2.5% - "but at least for the growth of gross domestic product..." At least. Then it says from here on: "... and not for less than 2.5% according to the realization for last year's study activity", and so on. We have had the opportunity to discuss this several times, but from different positions. I was the person who, together with the then finance minister with the universities, agreed on this formula for calculation. You interpret it like it says that for at least 2.5%. Of course, at least 2.5% if gross social product growth is accidentally less than 2.5%. This is what the regulation says, and it can read anyone who does not interpret this tendingly. Gross social product growth is higher than 2.5% this year. What we wanted to protect together with Dr. Marble at the time in agreement with the universities - that even if we had negative growth, even if we were to grow, for example, with only one percentage, there would be an increase of at least 2.5% in funding for the university. It says here clearly. All I'm talking about is sticking to it. Since I know that you tried to correct the regulation, I understand why you tried to correct it - because your services do know that this is not calculated in this way, but 900 million tolars are missing and 900 million tolars must be provided in order for the matter to be in accordance with the regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State Znidaršič now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to make a call on the interpretation of the resources provided for in the Defence Budget. Of course, I don't mean to dispute in terms of where the money is too much and where the money is too little, but I would like to point out that Slovenia has made certain assurances, in accordance with the Washington Treaty in 2002, that it will reach 2% of gross national product in 2008 for the defence area. To this end, a specific projection of the financial resources intended to achieve this percentage was made. If these projections were followed consistently, the percentage of gross national defence product in 2007 would be 1.87%. This percentage is real in the current proposal, which is still slightly lower than last year's adopted budget, 1.65%. This is said to be much lower than the projection budget for defence. However, I would like to point this out because Slovenia is public - this has been presented, even since 2002 - it has been said that Slovenia will achieve these target percentages. And it is therefore important to talk about the fact that the Slovenian public has been misled, that we will not invest in the defence area, probably inappropriate. So once again, I would like to point out that the percentage of gross national product envisaged in the current budget for the defence area is significantly below the projection originally prepared for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of Rep has already signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I would like to further clarify some of the indications relating to the expenditure in the area of salaries or expenditure on staff. In our country, there has been a trend in the past that the Government has additionally employed some over 500 public servants at the annual level. If I tell you a concrete example from 2003 to 2004, this figure was 775 new public servants. This government has for the first time stopped this trend of additional employment and has also adopted a clear programme to reduce the number of employees, which is also very effectively implemented. However, two things have to be said about the funds mentioned above, linked to the wage line. As you know, we are preparing for the presidency. The government will employ only 300 public servants for the presidency, as well as for a certain period of time and gradually; it is said, for the period since this year when we started, and this process will end in 2008. Part of the funds mentioned, it is said, are these 42 million euros, but it is also intended for the implementation of the Lukend project, it is said, for the abolition of judicial backlogs. Thus, the claims that this Government is recklessly increasing the funds on this item certainly do not hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. It will be necessary to apply until the next round. I now give the floor to the first Member, Mr Mikolić. First, we have to finish the debate of the four Members who have been declared, then I will open the re-circuit and the representatives or representatives of the Government will be able to re-apply. Please, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I'm going to read something about stacking and deceiving from an article in Dinner, I think it was published yesterday, under the title of the Government quietly spending once-high taxes, with subtitle This is not a practice. I think that's what it says. So says the Member of Parliament: "The government received almost 100 billion tolars more tax than legal persons' income this year. This tax gift was given because companies completed the transition, switched to international accounting standards and banks were more taxed because of reservations." I think that thinking is quite right, especially from the point of view,'enterprises have completed the transition' - I fully agree. It is said that the gross financial revenues of companies in the field of economy, service activities and everything else were inadequately better, economic growth was better and it is entirely realistic that the income from corporate tax or income tax was so much higher than planned. Now I am going back, I am going to the text before this, which speaks for 2007 and 2007-2008, and it says, "...but also because they expect once more corporate taxes," this is now 2007 and 2008 - "instead of 124 to 230 billion tolls on the income of legal persons, because they have abolished incentives for investment and employment." So what we have adopted with tax legislation is this 100 billion. 100 billion more money, 100 billion or twice as much as it says, double or 100% increase the tax burden on economic operators or our economy. I don't see any logic. And just like I started - bullshit and deception. The planned amount of EUR 230 billion is certainly due to the good economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia. As I said on the committee yesterday, it would be an increase in the burden on the economy if the tax base were increased from 25% or percentage points, but not that we reduced the tax legislation by 2% or gradually by 2010 to 20% or percentage points. And I believe that this is indeed misleading; what is written in this article is certainly this. With regard to public consumption or percentage points in relation to gross social product, he himself would fully agree with what the minister said. Public spending is for me, and I'm not a financier, expressed in expenditure, you say, consolidated balance sheets or I understand all four cash registers. And if we are to obtain more money from the European budget in the future, and as a result we are also earmarking financial resources for the European budget, it is said that it is really necessary to take into account what the Minister has said. And I don't know why some people don't want this or don't understand that you also need to talk about absolute numbers that actually increase both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, as a result normally on the expenditure side, the budget from all four cash registers here means that public spending is 44.9% good. However, if these European funds were deducted, as previously said, this would mean a reduction in public consumption for this amount of gross social product. This is how I assess and believe that the 2007 budget balance is good to allocate financial resources where this is really necessary, in order to increase in those areas the purpose of the budget being realistic on the revenue side, and that is why I will also support the budget or amending the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u172	The issue of the expenditure side of the budget is also discussed in general part on items, about costs that are not in general part. And as with higher education institutions, about €4 million is missing, there are also €11 million missing from this state budget for the salaries of trainee doctors and second-hand workers. The government has decided to save in this state budget in higher education, in health care. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia boasts in a document explaining the general part of the draft amending the budget that transfers to individuals and households during the term of office of the Government of Janez Janša have been reduced from 3.4% to 2.9% of gross domestic product - a reduction of half percent of gross domestic product by 150 million euros. The government, however, spends €150 million saved by reducing transfers to individuals and households, spending €60 million more on salaries, $20 million more on material costs and so on. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia says it saves to save on employees as well. But, look, non-governmental budget users can employ 59 additional people, courts 80, according to government documents, that would still be acceptable. However, the Government also provides itself, including the repressive authorities, with money for an additional 600 employees. This is not a cost-effective budget. The budget financed by salaries financed by office material by reducing transfers to individuals and households is not a savings budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber has the word. [[He's quitting.]] Then Mr. Sok has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. However, I would like to say that, as a Member, I have to listen and follow these debates so that, in fact, I think this debate by the opposition is materially very weak. I would therefore now expect, gentlemen, to ask the Minister whether you are discussing with him whether he believes that public spending has been reduced by 1.9%, and whether he believes that the tax inflows in gross social product have decreased by 1.6% to prove to him that what he said is not true. But you have now turned the matter around - to the answers he gave you, you have forgotten, and again we hear about 20 million more for material costs, we have heard the answer why these material costs have increased, and we know why the Lukenda programme and so on. This would be a debate that would be appropriate for some level of the National Assembly, colleagues. Otherwise, we can talk about different things in the budget here, one would raise hot meals, give more, one would reduce subsidies, the other would give a little more for marginal groups, and the third would end for the new magazine and so on. But if this is how we deal with the general debate on the budget, then, gentlemen, I think it really points to a low level of debate. Finally, I will read - I too was stung by this interview, mentioned earlier by my colleague Mikolić, who you had, Comrade Squeakl, in Dinner. You've filed an intervention against the minister, if you're too little in the media, but I think you're quite a lot. And you're saying, just for the end, when you're a journalist with all your black-eyed predictions - today you've also been talking about some reserve black fund that the government should have, and I think it's right that it doesn't have. If there were ever such black funds, you know that. That's really funny, yeah - it's not funny. So says the journalist: "What about the successes we hear from the European Union? Don't they matter to you?" I'm not going to list them here again because we've already told them I don't know how many times, and you say, "Let's be realistic, Europe needs at least one more than a normal story in all its crises. Ours has remained the only success since 1 May 2004 and will remain that way for a while." What's he holding now, or a successful story or what you've been doing here all along as some sort of "perpetum cell phone"? We, of course, have to listen to you on a regular basis. So that's it. Now I'm asking you, does what you wrote in the interview at least keep in mind? So it's said that you "reviewed" the fact that the journalist didn't write it after your story, but that you examined it and said, "I agree with that." Then this: "The takeover of the euro is not at risk, but we must be aware that this will incur a much more acute public financial situation, because we will no longer have the current room of manoeuvre." And that, the minister speaks, is what you repeated after him. The Minister is aware of this, and the government is aware of this. Now that's funny. So, if this is all funny, then your statements are actually ridiculous. I would really ask you, let's stay at some level of discussion, but not, for once we're at warm lunches, once at subsidies, once at material costs, it's said, nothing counts what the answer is, but we're just turning this story around and trying to get some political points. I think this will be difficult to convince the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. If possible, let's not go too far from the general budget, because there are many interviews, and more media. Of course, Mr. Squeakl has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u176	I thank the two Members who have read the interview, the purpose has been achieved. You need to read it completely. True, this government of Mr. Janez Janša failed to spoil the good story, failed to spoil the good story. However, Minister of Finance and Mr Janez Janša have not managed to reduce public spending by a tenth of a percentage. Mr Sok, I told you earlier in the general debate in the introduction. Share of government spending in 2004 44.1%, share of government spending in 2007 - 44.1%. The promise of a coalition treaty, signed strategy for the development of Slovenia - all except the LDS, have been signed - public consumption will decrease by 2%. Public consumption will decrease by 2%. All we have is an increase in the tax burden and because, as you yourself have quoted nicely, we are entering a completely different macroeconomic environment from 1 January 2007 irreparably, the revenues that Mr Minister has in the budget, the fiction, the untransparent, and some of the expenditure is not in it at all, and that is illegal. And that is why it still holds, Slovenia will succeed or, despite the functioning of the Janša government, will be able to take over the euro. However, there will be a very big problem in 2007, 2008 meeting the promises that are written here. These promises do not have real resources or are two times higher taxation of the Slovenian economy. And then say you managed to close the budget, but you didn't give money for higher education and higher education is one of the manoeuvres, one of the levers that Slovenia could have. To say that you closed the budget, that you did not give enough money for health care or that you went to subsidize individuals by 150 million euros - that all means that there is no room for manoeuvre. I therefore predict that, after the mandate of this Government, the period of Janša's rule will need to be fixed by about a thousand billion additional debts in this period. Is this a debt now directly or quasi fiscal deficit, Mr. Minister? We used to do this a lot in the former country, and we know how it ended - bad. The fact is that it is spent primarily on high debt and if it is spent on high debt, if you have decided to give guarantees to railways, so you have no real coverage or formal legal basis, we will meet with what Mr Janez Janša, as I said in the interview, has already found in 2007. He found that he really lacked 50 billion in 2008, and that's why he's charging the new strategic world: find me a solution. And what we're going to do today and tomorrow is totally unnecessary. We will continue to meet with the implementation of the budget, with the 2007 budget rebalance and will substantially change the 2008 budget before its entry into force in 2008. That's why the interview and everything we're talking about today is a warning, and history will judge that we're right. For the time being, the government has not reduced public spending by a tenth of a percentage of GDP, despite the invocation of the Prime Minister, Mr President of the Government. One last thought. Mr Sok is one of the senior New Slovenia officials. New Slovenia has written in its pre-election programme that the share of public spending in Slovenia will bring 35% of GDP. You have another 9% reduction point for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u177	Mr. Squeakle, that was a replica. You've already done a lot. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u178	That's why I think we're going to judge a lot about this in the future. For now, Mr. Sok, read the entire interview.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Don't let me bother you all the time. Let me compliment you. Since I attended the debate in one of the Anglo-Saxon parliaments, I find that the culture of dialogue in our Parliament is very high. I'm reopening the debate. I ask that the government's representatives come forward with their hands. First of all, I give the floor to Secretary of State Dr. Sverchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to explain certain things about the student subsidy for food, namely that for 2007 we are increasing our investment in the budget by 5% for food for students, i.e. for subsidisation. According to our calculations, 37% of primary school students will receive this subsidy. While we would like more, perhaps this, Mr Gaber, who has been working in this area for a long time, knows that there are boundaries here too. However, we believe that this rate will continue to be successfully raised and that we will continue to take good care of this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u181	Thank you very much. If I saw it correctly, I'd like to speak to Dr. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I'd answer that question, to that exposed claim that we're not worried about higher education. The fact is that higher education is a complex issue that we must supply in all aspects, and if we are to have a Bologna reform, we must also provide new investments, new laboratories, especially in the field of science and technology. And the fact is, in the 2007 and 2008 budgets, there is an increase in the investment area in higher education compared to 2006. If I read the figures, there are 2 billion 782 million investments in 2006, 4 billion 438 million in 2007 and 7 and a half billion in 2008. And the fact is that for this part we also have to provide domestic resources, and it is undeniable that all investments also require their own participation, by giving something out of the activity, this means that we are amending the regulation just to look at this situation in an integrated manner. [[...]] In total, it means that we are looking at such a higher education activity, that is, only learning, and investment together. And that is what we are implementing, and this regulation is now in the process and we are amending it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u184	Mr. Secretary, I thank you. You've just confirmed that in all the points I've pointed out concerning this issue, I have a fine. I have reminded you that, with the budget ahead of us, you do not respect the regulation. You're the one who confirmed it. I do not deny the efforts or the need for effort, even in investment work and in any other. But I warn you that it binds you - because you are obliged, and here you have sworn before this Parliament, to respect the rule of law in this country - the regulation. And don't tell me how you're gonna fix it. Or, after all, when you realize that you've violated the Constitution, will you say you're going to go "post festival" to fix it, or how? This Regulation - correct me if I am wrong - today is in force. This Parliament today adopts the budget. I don't know if it's a legal state, if that logic that you're explaining to me here is in any way in place. I'm afraid someone else will have to tell us where we're still breaking the basic rules we've adopted ourselves. And yesterday, by the way, I heard you talking about how you support private higher education institutions. Fine. I don't mind. Just make sure the money's safe. Here you can see how much contact there is between promises and reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the reported debaters. The first one has the word, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and fellow Members, I am gathering a very nice greeting for all! Although the chairman earlier said that today's debate is very high, however, I firmly believe that some things need to be highlighted from a different perspective, especially because this can be done very easily, very quickly and on the basis of solid arguments. Look, earlier it was said that after the end of this government's term of office, her work would have to be remedied. A colleague who spoke said another bombastic number, and if I combine this with what his colleagues and colleagues, particularly from LDS, stressed in the introductory debates, there was evidence in the areas of development that the budget was not meant to be development-oriented, culture, education, quality of life, health and safety. Now let's see what it's really like. Moreover, in one case, I will have to touch on one particular case so that I can then go back to the general part again so that there is no misunderstanding that I have just gone to the other part of the debate. Indeed, first and foremost, as regards culture and education, as well as as the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, I stress that not all the claims in this regard are reliable. If we look at the budget that will be before us today and tomorrow - today in the form of changes, tomorrow as the 2008 budget - it can simply be seen that money will be made available, both in the area of culture and in the field of education, significantly more than it has been in the past period; and more so that this increase will not only be nominal but also realistic. And that the growth of money, the growth of resources available for the development of Slovenian education and development, to raise Slovenian culture, is significantly greater so that this growth will be faster than the growth of the budget. It is said that the Government is still aware of the importance of these two areas in Europe, where we are now included, for the preservation of our cultural identity, for the preservation and enforcement of our people, our knowledge, our culture alongside all other equal partners and the modern European community. And on the other hand, as regards development, quality of life, health and safety. But there is no way to say something in general here, so allow one concrete example, just one. In this proposal, the supplementary budget for 2007 is also one new investment, the Hotemaze - Britof road. You'll say, a small step for Slovenia, what does that mean? But it's not true. It is a section that ends in the field, and there is traffic that connects regional and even interstate connections, because it leads to the Jezersko border crossing, through a very densely populated old village. There is no road section in Slovenia that, according to my data - I checked them as far as I could - I had as many injured, dead children as I could - per kilometer of road as this unfortunate section has. We could have saved this a long time ago, because that's how you dream - the fellow who's been talking about rehabilitation - has been there for about 20 years, and obviously nobody thought it was worth it. This Government, however, is aware of the importance of this road and has classified it as a new project in this proposal. And look, by upgrading this section, the quality of life of the people living there will improve, and also the quality of all users, it will allow for a new development potential, not only the areas along this road, the municipalities of Shenčur, Kranj, Predvor. Fellows who laugh there, I believe that these parts of Slovenia are funny to you because you are from other parts, but this is also part of Slovenia and Slovenia must develop as a whole and cannot develop only Ljubljana. Every part of Slovenia is important, and when it comes to tourism, all of you, too, say that tourism is of strategic importance. This road will also allow the development of tourism. It's an extremely touristic area. This is said to be neither true nor your claim that this budget is not development-oriented, because this particular case already proves that more and faster development will be possible. It is not your claim that this does not allow for a higher quality of life, because this particular case that I have been talking about proves that the quality of life will increase. And most importantly, there will be greater security, more health, more quality of life for all. And what more would you like? And colleagues, those who will vote against this budget, hinder development you in fact, hinder the development of culture, hinder the development of education, you care little, and you have even laughed now, for the development of one part of Slovenia, Gorenjska and after all with your conduct over the years and with a laugh at this moment, you are proving how little you care about health and life of people. And that, in my firm belief, is the highest value. That is why, colleagues and colleagues, I will vote in favour of this budget and I ask you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Mohet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't mean to come by, but the debate also came on the field of higher education and I will try to make it clear as a mathematician that the legal basis for this budget is being violated. See, among the materials cited by the Ministry of Higher Education as the legal basis for the preparation of this budget is the Regulation on public financing of higher education and other institutions of university members from 2000 to 2008. It's a legal basis. On this legal basis, in Article 5, which refers to the establishment of annual funding for higher education institutions, you have a fourth indent which states that what needs to be in the budget in 2007, 72.5% of the 2006 annual funding for higher education institutions increased by K. K is set out in Article 68, which states what Dr. Gaber has already said, the annual budget resources for the study activities referred to in Article 3 of this Regulation is actually increased by at least a year for gross domestic product growth and not less than 2.5% for the previous year. Look, now the numbers. In the 2007 budget there is nominal growth of gross domestic product, which you have proposed to us, Government, 7.5%. The Minister himself said, and we have calculated that the right to spend on the study activity in the draft budget is increased by 4.7%, which is 1.9% less than the legal basis for the calculation of the resources that people need to carry out high school activities at universities. We, for the first time, are increasing the number of students in a few years from 30,000 to 90,000, and we are going to the second stage of the "sickness" paid by the state. The people selected from the university sphere on the Higher Education Committee have agreed to this and the Committee has mainly adopted the budget and has given three points of reference to which the Committee has disagreed and entrusted the Committee on Finance with the aim of increasing certain items to comply with the legal basis for the budget. I was there explaining it. There was no will to make things right. This is exactly what the budget will be. But now it will be necessary, with such a budget, to universities where we have introduced funding with the Higher Education Act, where university rectors will be responsible for how the funds will be shared inside. And if the state does not give them what it has promised them and gives them less resources, then the rectors will have to survive somehow with these smaller resources. But it is not legal, it is not fair, what you are doing, and it would be right, it is not such a big asset that, if already, in a government policy in all the documents that the opposition has always supported and education as one of Slovenia's priorities, this budget would be filled in as much as these legal bases say. And that, of course, is why now, if the budget goes the way it is, then the Minister has a major problem with the rectors. These are the smart people, the "staff" they have behind them, they read these things, and the trouble is they don't want to adopt such regulations, and their funds are slightly reduced. I think it was this manoeuvre that, instead of this regulation being adopted when we adopt the budget, some other regulation, if it were, would have been such that the other regulation would have been in line with this budget. However, in the interpretation of the budget, when it was being done, it was nowhere to be said that this would change. And we will adopt the budget, and then, because we do not have enough resources in the budget, we will go into amending the legal acts that set up the budget. I think it's one of those ravings, but if it can't be done otherwise, maybe it'll be acceptable. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies ministers and presidents, I tell you, don't joke about the area of higher education and don't joke in the country about winning as an interested public against the entire higher education sector. For this reason, I would ask that we have so much visibility that we respect what we have and what we have accepted and that we are trying to devote a little more to this segment than other segments in order to develop more rapidly, because it is necessary to know that 60% of the population that completes secondary education goes to universities and will grow from year to year, and universities need these additional resources as bread to enable young citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to acquire appropriate qualifications. Therefore, this matter is also somewhat resolved by some amendment. Try to support this amendment then. And there's something else. Probably, if the sources weren't right, a harmonisation amendment would have to be made. By adopting the amendment, let us make it easier for the entire ministry and the minister to take a clear view of those people who are in charge of higher education. Indeed, I would say to the Minister that he has stretched this harmonica in other areas. We were very pleased that, in other areas, he also had funds that might have been allocated to some extent, in terms of globalism, above expectations. It seems to me that the first task was to evaluate this core activity as far as legal acts define it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much. More mag. Then we'll reopen the application. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u190	I think it has shown so far that the debate is a serious problem of this government with an understanding of the legality and, if you will, of the budgetary procedure. The fact that the Minister, one or the other, the Minister of Higher Education, Science or the Minister of Health simply does not take into account the legal obligations of defining their financial programme or simply submitting themselves to the Minister of Finance because of the power relationship and then disregarding their basic legislation has clearly become the practice of this government. What was still not answered is why I repeat this question to the Minister of Finance, but this is still the story of the decommissioned resources of the municipalities. I would like the Minister of Finance to tell us how he will spend 885 million euros through the state budget to be allocated to the municipalities. Article 2(2), second paragraph of Article 38 clearly states: "The Minister shall determine the procedure and method for transferring the income referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article and the income in the preceding paragraph of this Article shall be the revenue of the budget." The Minister of Finance is not some imaginary minister sitting on so-called public finances, and he gets a billion 700 euros says: "800 in the state budget, 800 in the municipal budgets." No, the Minister of Finance in the National Assembly at the time of adoption of the budget and the adoption of the Law on the Financing of the Communities first, unfortunately, this is how the Minister for Local Self-Government proposed to him, to abolish the fact that, of course, the municipalities do not receive their share of the income, and the Minister of Finance should therefore have a legal dictatorship so that the revenue of EUR 885 million from the taxpayers will be able to spend and direct to the municipalities, but not outside the budget. Now, of course, you will say, this is the opposition MP. Ambassadors and Members, a respected government, the Supreme Audit Institution, the Court of Auditors, at the time of the 2005 final account review, found the exact same case. Can't take up the debt, can't get the assets of the Cancer Institute into the books of the country without making the expenditure in the income and expenditure balance. Therefore, we cannot, of course, put EUR 885 million out of the national budget through a non-existent item in the revenue and expenditure balance, unless we also record it in the revenue and expenditure balance. I think that we should make an increase in revenue by EUR 885 million on the basis of the adoption of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Coordination Amendment, and, on the expenditure side, set up a derogation for municipalities at the same amount. If we don't do this, we're going to fail to show this 885 million. More important, the congregations will not have the legal basis to challenge this money. The municipalities only have this money in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. However, let me tell you, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Law on Public Finances says that in each year only what is expenditure in the State budget and only in the amount set out in the State budget or in the rules laid down in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. And this EUR 885 million of state budget expenditure, which is the revenue of municipalities, is not in the state budget because these two items are on the revenue and expenditure side [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] If we've listened before, higher education institutions, public health institutions, we have a similar situation here. [[...]] The government, Mr Minister, may be joining us, either Mr Secretary of State or Mr Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development must explain this to us. Mr President, if, of course, you are in doubt, I also propose that the legislative and legal service will help us eventually, but we certainly think that if we want to maintain transparency in public finances, we must adequately increase the revenue and expenditure earmarked for the financing of the municipalities, assuming, of course, that the Law on the Financing of the Communities will be adopted. But that's why we have the harmonisation amendments. Then, of course, it will be clear to all of you who are telling us how tax revenues are falling quickly, that in Slovenia tax revenues, even at the state budget level, are not shrinking at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Since I see quite a few more wanted debaters, I am opening the application again. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State first. We have two options, either we repeat or you wait for the next round. We'll do it again. Please log in again, check the lights and so on. Looks like it's working now. First of all, I would like to invite Secretary of State Bratušek, please. Madam Secretary of State, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u192	With regard to the Law on Community Financing and Income. The Law on the Financing of Communities provides that the revenue has been deducted from the State tax to the municipalities. What has been proposed means that all income from income would be shown in the national budget and then in expenditure also through the expenditure of the state budget. The difference between the past and the old law is that the share of income increases slightly by 35% and will be around 50% in 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much. And now he has the word, Mr. Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It is normal for the opposition to be critical of the budget and everything the government is preparing. But some of the debates I think went beyond normal criticism and were, in my opinion, out of the context or concept that this budget has. So let me also say a few general things concerning the budget that we are dealing with today. Slovenia has recently become a respected and highly valued country in the world. And I have to say right away that it wasn't like that not so long ago. The current Government, which at the end of the year when the elections were and was appointed, inherited a rather unfavourable financial situation, with a large budget deficit, and then immediately took the work seriously and took a major step in the area of financial and budgetary policy towards transparency, towards achieving development objectives, towards cost-saving public spending and towards price policy stability, then public financial and tax policies and wage policies. In this place, in particular, I should point out the large movements and savings in the area of reducing the number of employees in the public administration, the abolition of certain privileges of officials, for example, hospital allowances, then it is also very important to combine public procurement procedures. Large savings also mean simplification of procedures for citizens and businesses who have faced numerous bureaucratic obstacles over the years. If I mention them, this is, for example, the abolition of the income forecast, which we will all feel as a great relief next spring; then the possibility of certification in administrative units and a multiple reduction in the price for such services; the possibility of using public administration services in any administrative unit in Slovenia; the electronic extension of documents; the use of all public administration services in one place; the elimination of administrative barriers; the extension of the deadlines for the first technical inspection of motor vehicles. A number of other cases point to major steps in the introduction of the public financial savings achieved in the middle of this mandate. The budget provides a framework for achieving the macroeconomic objectives set by the Government and implemented annually. The success of the objectives thus set has already been demonstrated, and it is certain that the continuation of such a direction will allow for even greater economic progress and all the general development of the Republic of Slovenia in the future. The fact that Slovenia is ranked within the European Union on the basis of macroeconomic indicators as the most successful country of the new members of the European Union shows the success of the current government policy. This is also why Slovenia will enter the euro area as the first of the countries to join the European Union in the last package, that is, in a bad month and a half. Also in the budget under consideration for next year, the trend of reducing the budget deficit continues. The 2007 and 2008 budgets under consideration are fully following the main objectives and orientations of Slovenia's development, as set out in the Government's strategy for the development of Slovenia. On this basis, the budget also provides a basis for planned economic development, for increasing employment and for improving the quality of life or welfare of citizens. While no budget is ideal and, of course, it is not, especially not because everything cannot be accurately predicted in the future. Life never follows the pattern envisaged and unforeseen situations occur at the time of adoption of the budget and then usually require a revised planning in the form of a budgetary rebalancing. Nevertheless, we can say that the adopted budget, which will also include the necessary amendments, will be a very good document, with its transparency, with its rationalisation and also rationality in the expected budget expenditure and with its conditionality a stable price policy, will contribute to Slovenia's continued reputation in the world. I believe in the well-intentionedness of all the proposed amendments, but I also expect the understanding of all the applicants until the majority decisions in this Parliament, which certainly cannot support all the proposed amendments, because this would affect either the concept of the budget that has been implemented or that would interfere with the coalition programming objectives. However, when we deal with the budget and listen to more or less critical discussions on the individual segments of this budget, I cannot go beyond the estimates that appear abroad on our budget. We can be very pleased with these assessments, for our budget is set by many as an example of how state budgets should be prepared and how to be transparent. For example, I quote a contribution in the distinguished French daily Le Monde - here I have it right in front of me - this is October 26, 2006, where on the basis of a well-known independent survey by the international research organisation IBP publishes an overview of budgetary transparency in individual countries. The survey, which I mention, assessed how the budget of the available information can give the public a clear and transparent picture of the budgetary planning of revenue and expenditure before Parliament's final adoption, how the content and level of individual items can be affected by the public even before final adoption and how, due to greater or less transparency, it can also control budgetary implementation and how Slovenia has cut itself off from this survey. The Le Mondu contribution notes that out of 59 countries surveyed, only 6 countries give citizens or the public detailed budgetary information at all. What are these countries? These are France, New Zealand, Slovenia, South Africa, United Kingdom and the United States of America. Slovenia has also found itself in this round of countries. It is only Monde, therefore, that Slovenia is an outstandingly respectable society in this area, which must certainly make us happy. That is why I cannot accept some of the observations that have been made in this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will touch on the areas of higher education and education in general and continue perhaps where my predecessor, Mr Moge, has recently concluded, not so much also on the formal and regular provisions themselves, but mainly on the content and as a physicist here I would like to make some assessments if my colleague Moje as a mathematician was more exact. If we come from the assessment that 60% of the population is intended for tertiary education, i.e. for further studies, and if we want those who choose to study at the second stage after "the disease" as well, because this is what the minister has promised us and the legislation says that all those who, after completion, can decide and meet the conditions for studies at the second stage after Bologna, then we can expect an increase in students for at least two reasons. One is a steady increase in the percentage of the population that decides to study and the other is an effective extension of the study period. Now the situation is that there is higher education, university studies are free for part of the population. And to make it even worse, the rest of the study that follows the emergency study system and pays tuition fees will be largely a rag hole created at universities for the implementation of programs after a regular study, either regular flow of funds, or on the basis of pooling some activities, lectures, exercises and the like. Certainly it is not the interest of this country that we have such double criteria that some have free studies, others have to pay them for such or other reasons. It used to be more separate than that. An extraordinary study was intended only for those who were unable to register regularly due to formal restrictions, such as employment or something. Now the story is completely different. We see that there are very many students who could study as regular students because they are not employed, but are forced into extraordinary studies because they are simply restrictions on enrolment such that they do not come through. And to make the story even worse, it turns out that extraordinary students often come from socially weaker environments and socially weaker families. Once again, we have a vicious circle, and they are, in their own words, twice beaten. In order to put an end to this, it is essential that more resources be allocated in proportion to this for higher education and tertiary education. We are also seeing the rise of universities, the rise of higher education organisations, especially private ones, but only on socio-humanist orientations. This is, of course, very easy to explain - because studies on socio-humanistic orientations, organization of study and implementation itself are significantly cheaper and organizationally less difficult than those on science and technology and also on other exercise-related institutions, laboratories and the like. And if the Ministry also wants to follow its direction in this area, encourage science and technology studies, and more importantly, in line with the Lisbon Strategy, to link tertiary education closer to the economy, then much more attention should be paid to financing such education. We see from practice, of course, that in other ways or directly from the economy there will not be such a rapid flow of resources in the field of engineering and science and technology studies. For this reason, I propose that we support in the future those amendments that will facilitate and allow greater funding to the Minister and thus further promote higher education in the field of science and technology. And as we have heard before, and I fully agree with this, we cannot support all the amendments far from here, and we do not expect that. However, I would be very, very pleased if we did not reject almost all the amendments, which is often the practice coming from the opposition to make me more precise, because although we are relatively smaller, it does not mean that the percentage of the quality of the proposed amendments is indeed 100 times lower than this ratio shows. In particular, I would like to thank you for any amendment you will support in the field of higher education and education and education in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! A little earlier, a respected colleague, Mr Grims, wondered who was blocking development in this country. In view of the fourth development axis, which connects Posočje or northern Primorsko with one leg along the Poljanska valley and Škofja Loko on the Slovenian highway cross, and the other through the Idrijce valley through Idrijska through Idrij connects to the highway in Logatec and forward to central Slovenia and the capital city of Ljubljana, it is undeniable that the development of Idrijska is hampered by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, since the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 deleted the Idrij Strak fourth development axis. The three development axes, the third, the third A and the fourth development axis are foreseen for this arm, or for these three development axes, and the third, the third and fourth development axes are foreseen in the resolution for a billion-and-a-half euro. And no euro for 80 kilometers of Idrija's fourth development axis. That's why some of our corporations are already buying land in Logatco, because there's a railroad and there's a highway. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, made a spring visit to Northern Primorske or Goriška, just as he visited one of the largest corporations in our country, this is Kolektor in Idrija, and there he had a very successful photo deadline. In a few months, we have experienced long-term transport isolation and long-term development isolation by the same Government and the same President as Idrian was cut off from the draft resolutions on national development for the period 2007-2023 and it is clear who is at least blocking further development in this area. It is, Mr Grims, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u200	Thank you very much. This same Member recently said that there would be more money for the cultural field, almost sounds like too much. So, of course, all those who are yawning or living will receive answers about a better culture situation in the future with Mr Grimes. Sometimes the data needs to be interpreted, not looked at at at the first ball. If there are so many, then, for example, it would not be necessary to table some of the minimum amendments that we have tabled ourselves and affect those areas of vital importance in the field of culture. I say minimally because the government is so pleased that it thinks that's enough. But you don't need it either, and the coalition turned you down. As far as interpretation is concerned, let's see. We hear that we are facing an increase in the share of resources within the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for culture. Really? In 2000, the share was 2.14%? It is true that in 2001, 2002 and 2003, it fell to 1.97% in 2004 and to 1.92% respectively, and this share of the Minister within the balance sheet for 2005 was adjusted to reach 2.16%. Watch out, why was he correcting it? He adjusted to obtain funds that he could operationalize to invest in the media. That's what this was all about. But it's okay. Statistics have improved from 1.92 shares to 2.16 but this quota will not be reached in 2007 and 2008. It will reach the proportion that was present in 2004. In short, you need to read the numbers and not stop at one year, two years ago, but look at maybe a lot, a lot in the statistics, which shows completely different trends and which in the years before 2000 talks about a significantly better situation. Okay, every minister has tried to somehow create better trends and correct them. This is not surprising, but it is important why he corrected these trends and where he directed that money, which he additionally, for example in the 2005 rebalancing, he obtained: for investing in, I repeat, financing the media and part of financing the film, and also those shares that he wanted within those items and those projects that he preferred rather than anyone else. At the same time, the minister in the government programme wrote in black and white that he would surprise us in the National Assembly or cheer us up, at least for me, if that were true, with the law on freedom of investment in culture, on so-called reliefs. What happened? This law was deleted from the first, second year of its programme of operation, it is no longer there, somehow it has been "dumbled" or somehow it has been excused that certain solutions have been brought through tax legislation, but far from those promised by the Minister of Culture when his reign within culture took place. In short, if this money is so much more and if you are satisfied with it, I expect that Slovenian culture will then bring on the cover of the New York Times our achievements in the field of culture, not in the area of which every Slovenian and Slovenian are to be ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss general work? Then I'll open another application. Please. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I have to admit that in the debate on a point a few months ago, I have warned that I will probably come forward by myself at this very point that we have today on the agenda. And that's what happened. Much has been said about this budget, and even for the year ahead, that they are not development-oriented, that even rehabilitations and the like will be needed. At the same time, it was said that there was nothing built on certain highway sections, that something had to be done. However, when we considered the guarantee for a billion and 30 million euros for motorways, we were able to hear that if we do, then the Slovenian public finances will squander everything that will be wrong, that the matter will be poor for future generations as well, and that Slovenia will probably never go away from such debts and so on. We could have heard that at the time, and today we are hearing the opposite - but not enough is being built on this highway program and in general on the road programme. Yes, people of God, but now I just don't understand you! At a time when we have made monetary commitments so that we can accelerate this construction so that something will not be built for ten or twenty years, today when we have a budgetary debate, the same people will find that it is not being built quickly enough, that this budget is not development-oriented, because it is not being built faster, despite the fact that this government has reduced construction on certain sections, such as, say, the Danube Highway Section since 2015, as it was supposed to be completed, to 2008 or, say, 2009. That's what they say, six, seven years short. Today, however, everything is too slow, and the money we then rented in the form of a loan would then put the country on the line, and today these people find that something is wrong that we should build even faster. Something just doesn't work out here. But when you're also talking about some developmental orientation that isn't, I would say that there are probably some steps in these numbers that are directly defined, procedures that are certainly designed for some development and are developmental and are in the light of this development, maybe not directly seen in the tables that some of them display, but let me specifically present some of the things that are in the function of faster development, developmental orientation, maybe more friendly development or something like that. If I list just a few of these issues or the rationalisations that have been done in the state administration, which, for example, this country has introduced as a process or as a way, as a sample, how can something be accelerated or something can be saved or something rationalised or something can be done more kindly, because everything, including this budget, is in the role of citizens. One way or another. If we build a road, it is in the role of citizens, if we build a school, it is certainly also in the function of citizens, us, not an institution, not a government or a ministry, but in order to make it easier for the children of citizens to go to school, to have a more friendly school, so that this school is better equipped and similar. The same applies to all other projects. That's why I wouldn't lose words here. However, some things are to be done, of course, more easily, to be rationalised. I would like something, just quickly, that I won't waste too much time, say what the government did on the mobile phone: one call for the entire state administration. Before, I don't know, 20, 50, 100, 300, 500 contracts because each organ had its own. The prices were therefore significantly higher. Thus the savings will certainly be 30-40% of the total amount, but we know that the amounts were not small. The same applies to the joint purchase of cars that are in the state administration. But the state administration is not only a ministry, in Ljubljana there is also an administrative unit in the field, which we know, we know something, there are also inspection grounds that I do not say everything. That is to say, if one order is made, one call, a significantly better price is achieved, that those famous stickers would not even be spoken of when there is a substantial simplification, I will not even consider here that it costs anything, but just simplification. What were these simplifications, and how did you have to tear those stickers down, I'm not gonna tell you. Then let's say a contract for air transport by the government. Here, too, a certain rationalisation has been carried out. For example, certifications that have somehow been transferred from notary to administrative units that cost 10 times or less. This is probably also a developmental approach or a more friendly approach to citizens. As we have already said, the budget is essentially for citizens, not for any quasi state administration. Then a bunch of forms that the craftsmen had to fill out or go to some other office. Now this is clearly stated that a government official at one window must also look for that form or that paper that would otherwise have been obtained at the other window. It's gone. That's kind, that's developmental. There's still a whole bunch of these things, and I'm only going to mention the one that's already been adopted, but it's not really true yet, because we're only going to get it next year. This is the abolition of the 2008 income forecast, as the debtors will receive these calculations already ready. This is just one of those projects that will certainly bring something. Maybe not so financially, but he'll certainly be nicer. If this government is taking such steps, of course, I have a whole bunch of them, and I will not keep listing them because I don't want to kill you, maybe there will be another opportunity to remind you of the matter as it was with the highways. A billion credits, billions of euros was spent on Slovenia. Now that we find that we are missing certain roads, we would now say that more roads should be built. That's what they say. They both go together, and then there's more to be done. And here I would like to remind you that it is necessary to watch in the long and long term. Not when it comes to credit, then the country will go "sugrund" because it suits us to strike against the country, but when we talk about road projects, then we say that there is not enough money for roads. So it's time to watch it together. That's why I reminded you, because I already warned you that I would remind you of that. And today was an opportunity. Everything we hear today, how bad it is, how nothing works, it probably doesn't. All you have to do is remember what some people said a few months ago. I could also read the magnetogram, but I won't yet. If we need it in the course of the debate, we will also read how bad it was to rent that loan that we are missing today, why it wasn't bigger because it's too bad it wasn't bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Homan has the floor. On this occasion, I would like to welcome you to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Very nice greetings for all colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly. We have a 2007 and 2008 budget ahead of us. We will never all be satisfied with the budget. I think if we had ten times that much money, I'm sure on the left and on the right hand side we'd say it's too small, it's too thin. But we have to face what we have. I think the government has done wise enough, put money on those areas where it is most necessary: rebuilding regional roads, rebuilding railways, if we want to have somehow what we wanted, I think this is ahead of us today. However, I cannot agree with the position of the LDS Group of Members, Mr Cwickl, who explained, we will table amendments, we will vote against the budget. I don't think it's drinking water. If amendments are being tabled, if they have good amendments, I think we will gladly accept them and also vote for this budget, because I think it is good, developmental and I do not think Slovenia has had such a budget yet. You can laugh anyway, but I think we're going to make some progress, that this budget is to be confirmed and we're going to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeakle's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u206	Nice greeting to the Member of Parliament! Since he may have a more plastic understanding, we already have a budget for 2007. We don't have to change it, and we're actually turning it into the worst. See, if you didn't change it, then more cars would travel through the highways in Gorenjska than you will now, given that you are first in the first updated draft budget and now with the amendments you are proposing, you are taking money for motorways. Why am I mentioning money on the highway? The money for motorways is one category that has substantially come into the state budget because we once set ourselves a special source in Slovenia, called the gas tolar. At the pumps, he was allocated specifically for the state budget and part went to Petrol. And this needs to be very carefully separated in the bookkeeping balance sheets. This amount of money was intended to return borrowed loans to Dars. Well, your colleagues, before you came to the National Assembly, they initially reduced this money from around 35 billion to less than 10.5 billion with the 2005 rebalancing, which is probably your problem. Your problem is that now that there is no money for highways in the state budget, despite the gas toll, the question is whether the legal issue is right at all, but that would be all without a problem if it was not necessary to introduce electronic tolls in 2008. Electronic tolling will reduce traffic on Slovenian motorways. That is why I propose that you, together with us, vote against the amendment and against the adoption of a budget that will require a rise in tolls, because this will ensure that traffic on Slovenian highways remains very high. I think everyone knows what I'm talking about. It is simply that on high tolls people will decide that instead of the highway Ljubljana - Kranj will take the state road and some location on a highway is less suitable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. After this DVD discussion, which is recorded, it's obviously hard to find, because many things happen again, but with other numbers and other content, the same thing. First of all, I would like to say that this budget is actually the first serious recovery of the period in which some of you have ministered. I don't know if you've ministered or you've ministered, obviously you've ministered more, but this budget means the first serious recovery, the first serious correction of all those stories by 2004. During this period, a number of important tax measures have been taken, including in the field of other, particularly administrative, obstacles and all these matters have had tremendous consequences in this State budget, both in the area of deficits, in the area of share of taxes and also in other areas. I think that what you are proposing, Comrade Squeakle, is that when you arrive after your next term of office to do some serious rehabilitation of this term, I am actually interested in what it will look like and what you will actually do. Will you remedy the macroeconomic indicators on which this budget is built and drawn up? Will you save, raise inflation?Will you reduce exports, reduce employment growth and increase unemployment? Which of these indicators will you be able to recover in a direction that is not good? All the criteria on the basis of which this state budget is built have positive growth, favourable growth for the country of Slovenia, and comparable to those to which you would like to compare yourself, but you will not do what you did then. I have before me the data calculated by the Chamber of Commerce which evaluated the tax and other rationalisation measures carried out in the last year. This source is because you are obviously very well-read, accessible, source, December 2005, and here at the Chamber of Commerce has been evaluated that the 2005 measures have cost the operation of a small economy for more than 20 billion. Are we going to fix this and put it on hold before that? I hope you don't imagine being rehabilitated under such conditions. Secondly, it is extremely positive that at last once a real approach to regional development is taken to invest in programmes, in projects that actually enable the development of something other than two or three major Slovenian cities. I must say that I am proud to participate in this coalition team, which has just taken this opportunity and actually directed and started to activate some of the projects that you have only explicitly accepted, such as the Green Border programme and implemented with a bit more than 0.5% or up to 5%. We have taken this seriously, have taken these projects seriously and have given positive results. It is also clear to all of us that the congregations are one of those who guarantee regional development. As long as you conceptually decided in the previous government coalition with your client's puppet, that municipalities are not needed, that municipalities do not need municipalities to need "susuti" salaries, then this regional development and investment in regional development was seriously threatened and limited. Conditions are now being made available through significantly greater funds to the congregations to start stories even where they have not yet taken place. Also in a remote area, some healthy drinking water is needed, some road, some internet access, etc. I think that these things should be taken a little bit more seriously and not just dealing with how much gross or net time someone will spend in the structure of the time spent. These games that you can afford are, in fact, irrelevant. It is also one of the conditions that we can even talk about coherent regional development and even regional development, including investing in state roads projects. We cannot just exist on this and support only that we have a beautifully built highway network connecting the fifth and tenth corridors, but the rest is empty and uninhabited. If the country wants to preserve the inhabited countryside, the cultivated countryside, if it wants to have anything other than bears, then it is also necessary to make a road where people live and try to keep what they have, but not just invest in Ljubljana's buildings. We do not picture regional development in any way or as a question, we do not explain it by explaining that regional development is a question of whether an investment will take place in the municipality of the Centre or in the municipality of Šiška. For us, regional development is something else. And through the programmes covered by this budget, we need to look at these things in a similar way. When you mentioned the gas tolar and those things about covering the highway building funds, you know, the first one who abused the law was just in another period far back. Every year with ZIPRO, he abused this marriage more. And every year he spent less gas tolls on the highway program. Every year there's a small share of the gas tolar. And every year more went for other purposes, every year more. And what this government is doing is no different, and no one is special to the refugees in this work as far as these things are concerned. However, it is important that we too do not imagine the rehabilitation of this system by reintroducing the stickers as they have been in the past period. The fact is that these rehabilitations of the historical period during which the Liberal Democracy was in power also mean a number of things, which were not properly recorded, which was also a number of harmful things, which was also a lot illegal, was a lot of things that made some channels for the fugitives. Practically the first measures in this area were those to break certain leaked channels, ties that had even legal coverage. Mirage is just a story of success for someone, but I don't think this Mirage government can be, and a similar Mirags can't be a story of success and what we would cry for. In fact, I find it logical that you are the worst critics of this restructuring, some of whom were ministers in the previous government. Clearly, among these measures, a variety of measures are taken that interfere with a privilege, a historical connection, and so on. And I know it's a great pain, because things are trying to put things differently. I think that the things that are happening and which are also visible in this budget are only leading to stabilisation, or even to the development or growth of economic growth, means measures that will further or accelerate the creation of new businesses, new jobs, and thus a variety of jobs will be reduced before the office of work. And I think it's the same. With these things shrinking when these people are no longer 100,000, but there are fewer than 90,000 in just two years, and it shows that this trend will continue, I know it threatens and wakes you up with certain aversions. Maybe it's hard to explain. However, things are much more transparent, conceptually clear and therefore these matters are also predictable. I hope that they will also continue to take place, not only for the next two years, but for a few years to come, even after the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u209	Thank you, too. Thank you, Vice President Pavlich, for your afternoon leadership. Member Milan Squeakl signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u210	The question was what would have to be cured. The untransparent state budget will need to be addressed. If you do not believe me, Mr Tanko, the Court of Auditors has found that the government has shown 49 billion underexpenditures for 2005 and that the deficit is not 90, but 140 billion expenditure. What else is going to have to be done? The debt increase will have to be remedied. Over the last 10 years, we have managed to maintain a debt level of about 28.29% of GDP in Slovenia. Only in the last year, after Mr Bajuk had spent his purchases from the New Ljubljana Bank, did the debt rise to 2,072 billion tolars for the first time. If we add to this the deficit of 2007-2008 a billion Euros of guarantees for motorways, a 100 billion Euros of guarantees for railways, if we add around 100 to 180 billion in debt to municipalities, especially to those municipalities that you are restricting to them today, and if we add that, because Mr Petan is sitting with you, I would almost forget, another 170 billion in debt for military programmes, then you will see that, at the time of the government's mandate, the public financial debt along with the guarantee has increased by an additional 1000 billion dollars. Instead of the 1,800 billion, which was the transfer between the finance ministers, the debt will be around 2,800 billion, 2900 billion. This in itself is not a problem if this debt does not need to be serviced. And at an average interest rate in the euro range of 3 to 5% points, all depending on what inflationary movements are, this could mean an additional 30 to 50 billion completely unnecessary interest if only we could save. And your Government, in this mandate, the debt increases from 1800 billion to 2800 billion, not in previous mandates. In previous mandates, we have maintained debt to 28% of gross domestic product. What else is going to have to be done? It will be necessary to remedy this, because today you probably will not accept this amendment, that we will give some more money for students' lunches, for student transportation and that we will indeed bring the internet. Your Government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u211	Comrade Squeakle, it's time for the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u212	I'm concluding.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u213	We continue the debate. He's got the word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u214	Your Government has not made an internet connection [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u215	Comrade Petan, I think you wanted to come to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague who mentioned me would just like to add to the actual record of what was, as I mentioned earlier, but I did not literally mention it. Now I can add that when we accepted a billion-dollar guarantee, but today we find that we have not enough money to build another road because it was obviously too small, and this gentleman said, "it is unfortunately not a turning point, that we will build highways with this credit, but it is a return to the Balkan model, to the Argentine model, because these minus 200 billion will have to be returned and will, of course, return this to Slovenian taxpayers". I'd just like to ask, "Who pays in the budget as Slovenian taxpayers?" All of us? There's no dilemma here. This is the only way to implement a faster highway construction program. Today you gentlemen have caught yourselves in this loop, which we had already anticipated will happen to you. And that's exactly what happens today. There's still a lot of things I could quote, but I wouldn't waste my time if I needed to, but I'll read something else, what was said, and today you're talking the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u217	Thank you. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The word is by Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! But only next time in a recommendation that he should use at least the currency properly, that he does not mix the euro once at different amounts and then add it all together. Otherwise, I would like to say to myself that it seems to me that the proposal for a rebalancing as well as a budget is adequately and appropriately prepared, so that I will be pleased to support it myself. Above all, I am pleased, as President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and in particular as New Slovenia's Member of State, who has always advocated that Slovenia's rule of law will also be in the real sense of the word that the Ministry of Justice or the courts and the authorities in this area have gained their place in the amount items. Yesterday, we heard Justice Minister Dr. Lovr Šturm say that the Government is implementing a project, a goal that was truly to be pursued, and I would like to congratulate myself first for this, for the findings which are statistically proven that the judicial backlogs are shrinking. Of course, this is a project for which we are all responsible, the legislative branch of power, the executive branch of power and the judiciary alone. This year's amendments to some of the other sectoral legislation that we have already adopted in this mandate thus show the first effects in those problems that occurred in 1994, 1995, when it is statistically demonstrated that the largest judicial backlogs have occurred. Of course, the fact that the judicial file will not be solved by anyone other than the judge with his professional co-worker, with his administrative assistance. Our task, the task of us Members, is to enable them to do this work. Therefore, as I have pointed out, I am extremely pleased that the additional funds provided under this item are already in the course of calls for new judges. Over the next three years, their number will increase, 170 new courts are foreseen. And with all these positive changes, I am not surprised, and I am also pleased by the statements made by the judiciary, including by the Council of Justice, that they welcome all the changes that have been made so far, but that they are now aware of their responsibilities. I am pleased to hear the statement, "but now it is up to us, judges, to show what we can do, to actively approach this project and to show results." The prosecution is also involved in the detection, prosecution and sanctioning of crime, and additional funds are also included in this item, as are some other items in the field of the Ministry already mentioned. Now, in this general work, in view of today’s records in one of the Romanian media, I would like to say that it is sad enough that when results are shown somewhere, personal discredits of individuals who are very actively involved in the role of establishing a good relationship to resolution and remedying judicial backlogs begin. Now I can't get past not touching the road itself. Contrary to my colleague, I am pleased that, in the context of the budget proposal or the rebalancing, the city for regional roads has also gained greater weight and that they have also received greater emphasis. I'm going to give myself a specific case that I know. Very close to Ljubljana, from here a good 20km are people being sentenced to the Macedonian state road. Perhaps your colleagues from the White Land, Prekmurje, Idrija, will say, "That's not possible." But it's possible. It is a shame that until now this project has failed. Thus, children from Schengen, Bhutan, Kurje village, Dry Valley, romantic names for thefts, must drive on no romantic macadam road. I am pleased that this road has also gained its weight in this draft budget, especially because, in addition to some unfortunate events, there has also been a traffic accident on this road in the past week, in which the bus, which took the children to the elementary school in Polhov Gradec, was involved. In a part where two vehicles barely meet, a large number of children drive there daily by bus. Of course, roads are not all, but this is one of the things that is very important that it is arranged. We meet them in our daily lives, with regional roads even more than with highways. This is how I generally welcome the proposal and will support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u219	I give my word to Ambassador Milan M. Cwickle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u220	Just for a little while. We support more money for state roads, and in this regard we have also proposed several amendments, but we believe that there is a need to save real money for this, rather than spending more money on salaries, on material costs on various subsidies and then even by reducing the highway programme, i.e. by incurring an increase in the state road programme. You have to save first, and then you have to spend that money. That's all I need, Mr. Chairman, if I'm being heard. However, we would like the Legislative and Legal Service to give an opinion on the need for a harmonisation amendment to the general part of the draft budget, to take account of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Law on the Financing of the Communities, and to take account of the gross principle of the expression of revenue and expenditure related to the decommissioned revenue of the State budget for the financing of the municipalities, of course. The revenue is the revenue of the budget, so it must be fully included in the state budget and then the part to be allocated to the municipalities has to be waived under the law, otherwise we have non-transparent public finances. If this could be explained to obtain in the course of the sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u221	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle. Thank you for your comment, too. I believe the Legal and Legislative Service has heard us, so we expect it to answer your question. And the replica is supposed to come from which side? You weren't mentioned, so I won't give you my word. And we'll start with a new round of debaters. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four Members on the list of applicants. The first one gets the word of Secretary of State Franci Žnidaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! I am obliged to provide an explanation of the presentation, which was made here some time ago in connection with the 170 billion that are supposed to be in charge of the area of defence. Given that the Basic Development Programmes Act 2008-2015 has recently been adopted, you know that the defence area since 2008 will no longer be in charge of the procurement of basic development programmes, but that the resources for the implementation of the core development programmes will be covered in regular budgets each year separately and within this, defined and adopted in the National Assembly as well as in other areas. The advantage of this law is, as we have advocated, transparency and multi-annual funding. What I particularly wanted to point out was that there would be no further commitments for the defence area from 2008 onwards. This is what the indicative envisaged investment funds in the core development programmes of €170 billion and €710 million of the indicative envisaged resources, as far as they can be realised by 2015, will not be part of the commitments, but within the framework of the regular annual budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u223	Thank you. Member Boyan Starman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome it all very well. I've been listening to so many of these numbers, and I'd like to say something about this topic of government debt. On 31 December 2001, this debt - the State's public debt was 1,228 billion. 31.12.2004 was 1.599 billion tolars and practically increased by 371 billion tolars during this four-year period. However, we were guaranteed by the State of 31.12.2001 for 288 billion tolars and at the end of 31.12.2004, 561 billion tolars, amounting to 273 billion or I want to say that during the four years and the day of the guarantee, the amount increased by 644 billion tolars because we had previously heard 1000 billion and all these things. I believe that there is a way that, directly from the State budget, we do not finance certain projects that can be financed over a longer period alone, that we provide only a guarantee, correct and I think it is only right for the budget to be burdened in this way. It would probably be good if other projects, other investments in municipalities and the state were not directly implemented, all those projects that could be self-financed in later operations, so that all those investments would be provided with the State guarantee, if necessary, and would then take care of the repayment of the debts themselves. I also see here a considerable opportunity to save certain amounts in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u225	Thank you, too. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear fellows and fellows! I'm going to avoid numbers myself because there were a lot of them already. However, something in this general climate, in which we are considering the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or the budget, would speak. On the one hand, we hear quite a lot of criticism, and on the other hand, the government or coalition boasts more about the circumstances and represents them as a result of its actions. In fact, he boasts that it's a nice time out there, that it's warm in the fall, that we're going to save no oil. This is all true, but it certainly is not the result of the operation of this government and certainly does not result from the operation of this coalition. It's a good situation. Thank God for Slovenia, don't you think? He also boasts of matters arising from the operation of all previous governments since 1991. Someone's been working on this field, someone's picked a potato, planted it, and now it's a good summer. It's fine, too. But if we go to look at the details, we'll see that it's very much principled and very little concrete. I'm going to look at our Zasavje, which is, in fact, somehow eliminated. I don't know if it's been punished or bad luck or bad luck, but a region that has somehow moved from an industrial to an industrial age, and which is particularly burdened, is in fact being excluded from all of these benefits, which are shared and talked about in a coherent regional development, connecting to roads, better health care, education and so on. Of course, I don't see that for Sasavje. When this government mission was going through Slovenia, there was also a lot of promise, but they could not actually get even more united in their promises. The Prime Minister promised some coal and continued production of coal energy, the Minister for Gas, mainly, it was one big fog. When I proposed an amendment to save the existence of a hospital, which is very important for all of Slovenia, not only for this region, because the shorter species everywhere, was rejected because they would solve it somehow differently. But that's what this government's been saying for two years. It would be time, however, to set a limit that is so desirable to set, and to start thinking about what these two years have been doing and what is being done. Of course, I very much wish, as probably everyone in the National Assembly, that the budget would be adopted in a way that would benefit the whole of Slovenia. But I can't believe it because we've got some contradiction, it's being saved everywhere, it's less everywhere, at the end of the day, but when you ask those responsible, the finance minister, he says there's more. How more and less can it be explained, but not me, but the people accompanying us, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who fill this budget with their money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u227	Thank you, too. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. However, a few words have to be said about this debate. I must say that, by the coalition Members, in particular by the Members and leaders of the SDS Group, a whole bunch of kind words have been said about the government, about the budget, about what has been done so far. I have to say that I've always had problems, I didn't know what the visual heavens looked like, and after hearing the head of the SDS delegation, I imagined, but that's how I should look like heaven. But the truth and reality are a little different. You boasted, and you said a lot of nice things about what the Government has done, about the EU government and all that. You talked about it all, but you didn't talk about portals that don't work. You didn't talk about documents that should be online. I've been watching today, like, who should be legally on the websites, but they're not. You will recall that I was delighted to welcome the idea of getting an income statement fulfilled, and this is what I was supposed to get in 2008. I am delighted, Mr SDS head of Parliament, but please tell the Tax Office if they could finally send me a tax decision for 2005 and whether they will send me the right one this year in 2006. First, clean up things that you don't know how to clean up and then brag about them as much as you can. No recovery in the budget will be necessary for those we have left behind. On the contrary, we have abandoned your legacy. I'm alerting some paradox. In these two years, this government has been a sincere spear in excessive tax revenues, which, in fact, have been lovingly produced by, say, the Maramor-Rop tax reform. And you spend that on a lot of money, and you spend it, and at the same time you criticize the government, which you say with the wealth of bedding. That's a little unusual. When you talk about economic growth, you attribute this economic growth to yourself and to your actions, while you continue to say that economic growth will be smaller, you attribute this to external circumstances in the European market. What's good is you've earned, which is bad, but others are guilty. These are clear "finte" and cannot be overlooked. I've got to say, I've heard too much about highways. I'd say that. The highway can't be built faster than it's built at this point. Construction operations are literally filled, so there are no surpluses, there is a shortage. If we were to upgrade the construction operation now, we'd be wondering what we'd do with it in a year or two or three. So it's probably not possible to build faster. And it's right to build quickly and as quickly as possible with those resources that they are. Why is he building fast? Because all the main nuts in the site were destroyed in previous mandates. All the main nuts were crushed in previous mandates. The SDS and their current leader of the parliamentary group, the current Prime Minister of the Government, were one of the worst opponents and opponents of the selection of highways with legal and illegal means. And by the way, that's very nice, which he was so opposed to, and then he opened up. Let him ride on routes he's never been on. It is therefore pointless to boast about long-term projects that are simply logic and very unusual to abandon them. The budget is in my opinion, I know what my colleagues think, the budgets are in my opinion, because I'm a famous skupa, I'm confidently over-extended, I'm over-rich. This budget is simply too rich, you have simply piled a little more into the debt account in the highway area. And I must say that I understand that the budget is harmonised or balanced when all ministers are dissatisfied, but no one gives up. Here we have the very pleased ministers who say they are satisfied with the budgets, and this is a sign to me that the budget is bad because I think it is too rich. Because you didn't know how to set a priority because you didn't know to say, "Now we can't do it, we'll do it another time." Because you've increased everything. And that's bad. That's what's going to happen now, because the years of fat cows, as you might say, when the years of dry cows are years, we'll all have problems, not just you. So much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u229	Thank you, too. The word is by Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I protested a little earlier because I think I was previously entitled to the replica, but since you did not allow me to do it, I still have to say, perhaps there is no longer such an up-to-date response to Mr Squikel that I am surprised by his statement or his claim that he cares about regional roads, but that he does take this item with his amendments. So much for the credibility and credibility of his statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u231	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listened to my predecessors, I also thought about this budget that we have here today. I'm sure it hasn't been like this before, and I can agree with that. But I'm thinking another way of thinking about why it's never been like this before. But there are at least four points I'd like to talk to you about. I was stung by the statement on motorways and the speed of construction of motorways, especially in Pomour, there was the year 2015 and it was this government that reduced it to 2008 and 2009 respectively. Those two stabbed me. It wasn't this government. That was the previous government. It's a shame I didn't get the words under your predecessor's presidency, Mr. Vice President, but not because I didn't want to talk when you were there, but then I could tie it directly to him, because Dr. Pavlich was then the Transport Minister when the deadline was adjusted for 2008. And especially because of the unsustainable conditions that are always worse and worse on the regional road through Pomurje, and this was the main reason. The other thing, when I said that I was disturbed, in 2009, I hope that no correction has been adopted outside the National Assembly, which the Minister did not want to tell us, because two weeks ago it was still ensured that the motorway through Pomurje will be completed by the scheduled first deadline, which is 2008. And then it would be necessary to raise a problem if this budget does not foresee it. Of course, I would not want to raise any question here, how much money to build highways, but how we got to them. In this budget, the lack of development that we can see lies primarily in the fact that the state is on the one hand in charge of building motorways at the expense of being able to spend this money, which has been primarily collected for the construction of infrastructure, road and motorways, so that this money can then be spent for other purposes, unfortunately not the developmental ones, not those that would increase added value and not those that would create new jobs. And we're already at the second point, new jobs. We have heard that unemployment has been reduced. And I will read you a paragraph that I received by e-mail from an official in the congregation. This is how it says: The mother of a 26-year-old daughter who is unemployed visited us, and the Employment Institute advised her to study extremely. This relates to my previous debate. First year, they can't give her a scholarship, and second year, they can. Now she's enrolled in the second year. Since it is an exceptional student, it has been deleted from the unemployment register, it still has no right to social assistance and no payment of compulsory health insurance. Thus, unemployment was reduced by deleting them from the list of unemployed and entering it on another list. I warn you, it doesn't matter how much the formal reduction in the number of unemployed is, ask yourself, because this is more important than how many employees are employed. And unfortunately, this number doesn't grow, and it doesn't grow as fast as the number of unemployed is falling because it's falling fictitiously. The central call is a very important thing that calls now take place centrally for the whole of Slovenia. What does that mean? This means, among other things, when a radiator needs to be aired at a police station in Murski Sobota, that from Ljubljana a craftsman who received this job on a central call will take him back to Mursko Sobota and air the radiator there, which costs 10, 15 minutes to work and then takes him back to Ljubljana again for two and a half hours. By the way, also on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u233	My friend Mitja Slavinec, please allow me a second. I'm asking couples who are having a debate about what's going on outside. Allow me, however, to let my fellow Slavinec hold a soy debate, let us listen to him, only he has a word. Please proceed, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Among other things, when it is necessary to replace the lamp at the border crossing in Prekmurje, it is also due to the deal obtained on the central call, again two and a half hours, someone from Ljubljana and then back. Finally, maintenance, including servicing and equipment of the rolling stock of all public services is no longer carried out locally. And what does that mean? What does this mean for more coherent regional development, which is also the subject of the word. And this is the third point that stabbed me and encouraged me to debate. This means only one thing for more coherent regional development, which unfortunately, despite all efforts, and I believe that the SSR has good intentions and wants to achieve more coherent regional development and that the regions that have now reached and even surpassed on average after development now, but unfortunately, such central calls and other activities for more coherent regional development will only mean one thing, regrettably, and to the detriment of areas like the ones from which I come, development indicators do not confirm this. Development indicators do not confirm that less developed areas would become less underdeveloped in order to advance faster. Surely this budget in such a form will not help without at least some of the proposed changes, unfortunately it will not help. Therefore, once again, the call to support at least those amendments that are still acceptable for the stability of the budget and can help to eliminate such a faster delay in less developed areas and, above all, to address them in such a way as not only to reduce unemployment but in particular to increase employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u235	Thank you, too. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am speaking because I would like to correct on practical or concrete occasions the statements made by my colleagues in the discussions so far. I'm not going to use the terms "misleading" or "pouring," but I'm going to try to explain some of the things they've presented to us that aren't real. The story of roads, state roads and locals is such that if it were given on the basis of the discussions that have been held in this house concerning roads, doctorate, we would have several more PhDs in this National Assembly. Of course, this has nothing to do with my fellow Slavinec, because he's already a doctor. This story began in 1991 and was born as it could, and Pomurje was a problem all the time. However, what colleagues say was Pomurje in story 2015 is not true. That was never true. Pomurje had different terms that were moving because all Members were spreading the problem of the construction of motorways and it was also with the previous government of the 2008 period, without the definition of Beltinci-Lendava section, because only a halfway route was envisaged, and then later a different one, but never a 2015, maybe a 2010 section. However, it is true that it was from colleagues who here explain 2015 that they went from house to house and interpreted people so that Prekmurje would never have a highway. But when people could see and walk and drive for the first 14 kilometers, they just kept interpreting "I did, and it's not a highway, it's just a road." This was, of course, a happy summary by the media, and before us were the 2004 elections. We know what was going on in this regard. It is true that the then Government has not yet completed its financial structure for 2008, just as it did not have the current one when it took power. And just recently, we barely got a financial structure for this section and for some others. The petrol tolar was born even in Prekmurje, with members from Prekmurje, and was used on a legal basis. And at the time of the idea that state roads are a neglected highway visa, there was so much marital support in this house that all parliamentary groups supported the solution that part of the motorway tolar, the gas tolar, was also allocated to state roads. But in this house, we agreed on this and we accepted such a solution. I am not saying that this budget does not have much promising, including employment. However, one contribution back to your former ministerial colleague Dr. Damian, where he sorted the mayors by "developers" and "losers", wrote that the Regional Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota increased unemployment by 1,000, I think that what Comrade Slavinac is saying in this direction, or that now the funds will be distributed differently from before and that the robberies will receive much more. I expect that to be true. We have recently received government state aid statistics, where there were, for example, around 4 and a half billion for Pomurje in 2003 and 2004 and only 2 billion more in 2005. I'm afraid this trend wouldn't go any further. Since it was also a talk about the development of tourism, which is a saving plant for a wide range of areas, including Pomurje, we all know that or not, and the previous Government in 2004 earmarked a billion 600 thermal spas, and then never again the next Government, nor the tolar. It is a different concept, but not to talk about how development will now take place in the field of tourism. When will you reach a billion 600 to invest in the development of tourism in a region? In one year? Some of you have told us that we are opposed to the Law on the Financing of Communities, to favour Ljubljana and to neglect the periphery. How do you know we haven't voted yet? I think that some things, which are usually not typical of the coalition, are populist, and that everything was wrong in the previous government. It wasn't wrong, do some of the things I've listed now, even in the current government, and we'll be able to say that it was done well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u237	Thank you. Member Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u238	Thank you very much, again. First of all, it may be one word or two concerning the debts and debts incurred in this mandate. The former Government accepted guarantees and debts of 644 billion in its mandate. During this period, what this Government is, was debts and guarantees accepted for 331 billion. This is about half of what was in the previous government. What Cwickl says in this part is absolutely not true and comparatively nominal is about half. However, given that there has also been a gap in GDP growth, this share has been taken down by almost 20-30%. That's one. Secondly, as regards the construction of these debts from 1,800 to 2,800 billion. Maybe, but these things are arranged by currency, after years of payment. And in these matters, it concerns an intergenerational project. The fact is that the motorway network needs to be built in a short time to be used by us and those behind us. In a short time, it'll have to be built if we want it to have an effect. We cannot afford to build a highway network in the way proposed by Comrade Squeakl for the next 25 years so that something does not happen. This needs to be done and therefore these burdens are also assigned to a longer period of 2022-2025. Even then, in your mandate, your government's mandate, a national highway-building programme was adopted. And these things are also based on these things, according to payments very well sorted and written down. Even when you passed the Dars Act, you wrote and extended this period. It is only necessary to take into account the need for motorways to be built at an appropriate time and to place this burden on all those who will benefit from these roads in their amortisation and life expectancy, including those necessary rehabilitations that have taken place. The other thing that we're talking about in terms of deficit and debt is the fact that the debt doesn't stick, it's practically at the same level as it was two years ago in relation to GDP, things, I would say, don't move, maybe a little bit up, a little bit down, nothing more. However, while the current public financial deficit is falling significantly. I mentioned earlier that in four years this government deficit will be lower by 32%, 8% annually the rate of decline. That means achievement. This can be said to be a achievement, because it is difficult to increase by 8% the volume of traffic, but it is also difficult to reduce by 8% the costs and other things that belong here. It's not an easy project. And Mr. Squeakle probably knows that. As far as these military programmes are concerned, it would be good to read a law once adopted, not in this period, before anyone is allowed to go into any broader debate, so as to know why certain basic development programmes for weapons are taking place in such a way and not otherwise. I think that someone who was one of the main hairdressers in years ago in public finances could have known and mastered it well. I don't think that's any particular problem. That something is wrong with those who talk so much about planning, planning, execution, implementation, I would say just one more thing. After the first national programme adopted during the first government or other governments of Mr Drnovska, motorways should have been completed in 1996 and none of these dates should have been accepted by the best planners of the period since the second rebalancing in 2000. Not one date holds and one year has virtually been implemented by more than 30% to 40% of the planned programme. You can see that. I know some of the data for some reason, but I know exactly how these things were going. Let's leave what was then, and the explanation of the interpretation, but the programme that was adopted with the dynamics after years, with the content after years, hasn't worked for a year. It never reached 50 % altitude again, and we were specialists that in one year of implementation of the national programme we produced a year and a half late. This is reality, and now we have 2008-2009. This is the reality of plans and plans in this area. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Mr Gantar spoke about the government's tax gift, what was agreed upon when you agreed and decided to raise effective taxation profits. That was done at the time. The reason is probably clear. But that's a fact, we're facing it, and we found an answer to that. Thus, we have adopted a law that reduces the taxation of profits from 25 per cent to 20%, but this can gradually change structurally. Mr. Squeakle, the fact is. If you have other information and if you're reading another law, fine. If you explain it differently, fine too, but this is what it says, and this dynamic is likely to be followed. I hope something else doesn't happen first, but at this rate, it'll work. And I think that this coalition, which has drawn up this change in the budget and also the budget for next year, is capable of bringing these things to the ground and the solutions it has written in the budget, as well. There probably won't be any help from you, but we'll do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u239	Thank you. The replica was signed up by a colleague of Cwickl and a colleague of Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u240	Mr. Vice President. First, very briefly around highways and planning. When the first highway construction program was in place, there was no whole line of sections. To a physical extent, it was not until 1995 that the northern highway came in, and this programme increased by at least 40% compared to the first programme, so it is completely pointless to speak, because the first programme is something else entirely, such as a programme that was created later and includes a series of motorways, fast roads and so on. So there's no point in even talking about it. As far as the profit tax is concerned, it is true that they have not reduced the effective burden, but only nominally, as we have shown you several times. It is true, however, that this revenue of the budget from profit tax may be reduced in the following year, regardless of whether the old principle applies if profits are lower and therefore do not boast about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u241	Thank you. And a replica of my friend Squeak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u242	The important difference between the previous government and the current government is that both governments count that the motorway programme will be completed by 2013. This government will not be able to repay debts until 2070 and 2025, Mr Tanko, due to the changes it has made. And second. Apples and pears should be compared. And the deficit in 2006 of 1.7, after having more tax revenue for about 1.2% of the point and having additional resources from the European Union, should be zero deficit in order to compare the deficit in 2006 with the deficit in previous years. This is the content, but I doubt that a fellow Member is capable of monitoring this. If you do not believe, Mr Tanko, to the members of the opposition, then read Mr Bolet's article Fiscal Policy after joining the euro area. And in this article you will find a lot of guidance on what needs to be done in 2007, 2008 and why you will have to explain to Members here why some projects need to be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u243	Thank you. I'll ask you again before the interruption if you allow the meeting to be held from this place. Comrade Gantar, colleague of Tanko, colleague of Lahovnik, I will otherwise be forced to suspend the meeting and I will do so at the next warning. Secretary of State Marjeta Cotman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would only reply to Mr Slavinac, who mentioned employment or the rise in unemployment. According to the latest data applicable to October 2006, there are 81 000 302 unemployed and unemployment is falling. In the first ten months of this year, an average of 87 000 287 were registered at the Employment Service, which is 4.7% less unemployed than in the same period in 2005. Between January and October 2006, 5.9% more unemployed than in the comparison period for 2005. With regard to the unemployment of Prekmurje or regions with a higher unemployment rate, I would mention that we are currently preparing a new active employment policy programme at the Ministry, which foresees the objectives of giving priority to active employment policy programmes in regions where there is greater unemployment. With regard to the deletion of students who are regular as extraordinary students, I must point out that there has never been an opportunity in the law for both regular and extraordinary students to be registered in the unemployment register at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u245	Thank you for explaining. I'll open another round of possible debaters. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two other panellists on the list. The first is Ambassador Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. I don't think some claims still hold. It was said that our highway cross, with which, of course, the cross was at first, was not so extensive and that it was then, I don't know what it was added. I would say that from the beginning there was a cross, but in that true sense, from the northeast to the southeast and vice versa, this is from the suburban side to Kopra and from the Jesenic to the Dobova, because if it were not, then there would not be a cross, it would not be a highway cross, it would not be a highway cross, but some sections. That's not what it says, but it's something else. That the number of kilometres to this basic part of the motorway programme was the same, the price increased three times. This is true, and this is because of those setbacks that my colleague Tanka was talking about, that we were producing a year and a half in one year, and therefore, of course, the highway cross was not finished, as it was supposed, because it should have been long ago, but in the final stage, the suburban leg was also foreseen by 2015. With this government, of course, this has changed, it's been cut short for six years. But it is true that the price will be significantly higher because of this extension of construction, for these extensions! and if this government did not say so now - by 2008, 2009, then the price would probably continue to increase. With regard to various of these lessons, all of which will have to be cancelled due to the adoption of the euro, I would say that on the highway programme or even on the road programme, the construction of roads will probably be impossible for us to cancel, we will have to add something more to it, and the third axis of the third axis of the A axis of the B axis, because without good road connections there will probably be nothing, and we will still have to add something to the budget for the road. This is the trend now, and because we want to be in contact somewhere, in step with developed European countries, and we will not be able to achieve this, we will not be able to reach this development if we do not build roads. The question is, how fast are we going to build? If we build as we did at the beginning of this programme, something is likely to go wrong, and the price will increase significantly. From the beginning there was a highway cross and we didn't add. This came later for those parallel axes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u247	Thank you. And the apostle Geza Juban has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan, you probably weren't in the hall earlier when I was talking, but now I'm going to say again, literally what you just said, but it's not true. The first highway was Koper-Sentil with a double-passenger through Juršinka to the Hungarian border and there was no cross. But since there was another democracy in this Chamber at the time when the coalition members could coordinate matters and, together with the opposition, extended the highway program to the cross. But that was a lot later, in years, I don't know when, 1996, 1997, and this programme was expanding in every mandate to a new one, expanding over miles and financially. It is true that those first prices in years, even 1992, 1993, 1994, were attracted to hair because no one had any idea about the construction of motorways; and these were in those suits of yours and our people and everything possible. We have a former minister here who was quite realistic about this program and may be able to explain a number of things to you. And the highway to Slovenia can't be built fast. We had programs, colleague Presečnik, there, I don't know, for 1997 to have a highway from Hungary or from Šentilj to Kopra etc. These were too many things, and we knew it wouldn't work. And it has to be admitted that construction has now accelerated. In a way, it doesn't make sense to talk about loans because people don't care. Where the money comes from, people don't care, it's important to build, so maybe it's even okay. Mrs. Cotman's gone, too. Comrade Slavinec spoke about the criteria for the unemployed who had changed, and that, according to current standards, you would become much sooner unemployed than you were before, or employed as you used to be. The method of recording is different, so you can change the number of unemployed or employees and talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u249	Thank you. I am obliged to reopen the round for possible debaters. Here you go, please. We've got one of the advertised discussers. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. Since there have been two discussions over the highway programme in recent minutes or hours, some data have also been thrown out, which I firmly believe are not accurate or otherwise, I will say that the opposition is speaking similarly now around the debt and so on, as the previous opposition has said in the previous term. But these are very similar words, but as for others, as far as Prekmurje is concerned, I would just say that to all those who talk about the completing years and so on, I am also glad that this construction is going faster, even though the question is what the price is for this. But of course it is also necessary to read the National Programme, because it has been accurately written by when individual sections will be completed. In this National Programme, which is still in force and which no one has yet fixed, the completion of the first phase is, indeed, one part in the construction phase or the transportability of the motorway to Pink, to the Hungarian border in 2010 and the completion in the second phase until 2013. I am saying this because there are many occasions in 2015, so I suggest that all of them read the existing National Programme. Of course, this decision, which was already years ago to accelerate due to extremely increased traffic, especially in this part of the fifth corridor, is that, especially freight transport, there is faster construction. Of course, this decision has been well taken, and once again I say that, according to my purely personal assessment, the question of what price, and this may also be a certain question. If we put on "weight", this, of course, has to be calculated what it means for development, for economic development or, on the other hand, for the risk to the population on the route and so on, that, of course, the calculation can also be different. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u251	Thank you. Is there any other desire to discuss the general part of the draft budget? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the general part of the draft amending the budget. The general part of the draft amending budget will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of this agenda item. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the draft amending the budget as a whole. I'm opening a debate. We've got one of the advertised discussers. My friend Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u252	I have to say that I applied only to avoid closing the debate. A very nice "finta" was used - if you apply, then you can discuss the amendments, if not, there will be no debate on the amendments. In the specific part of the budget alone, I support all the amendments tabled that want to improve the internal structure of the budget. However, in my own vote on the amendments, I will explain in more detail and explain why amendments such as: giving more money to the Ombudsman, giving more money to the economy, to technological development, and not least increasing the resources to have doctors as interns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u253	Thank you, too. Since no one wants to discuss specific work anymore, we will now move on to a debate on 98 amendments to a specific part of the draft amending budget. All Members and Members of Parliament received a review of the amendments to the Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007, dated 16.11.2006, in which, as it is said, 98 amendments. I will lead the debate on the amendments through the individual budget users to whom the amendments have been tabled. I am putting forward an amendment to the budget user 1214 - the Ombudsman, Barbara's proposer, Žgajner Tavš. I'm opening applications for discussion. Here you go. So far, we only have one debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u254	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me first to say that I am counting on your support, your respectable colleagues and colleagues at this time. It's a very important amendment, according to my assessment. With this amendment, I do what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not done in spite of the fact that it has made a clear and loud commitment in the coalition treaty. The Coalition Treaty on page 22 lists among the tasks of the Government within the Department of State, the establishment of the Office of Child Defenders as a stand-alone unit. I warn you, only two more years will this Government have time to realize what is enshrined in this coalition treaty. And given that we are talking today about the 2007 budget rebalancing, where this office is not foreseen, and that tomorrow we will talk about the 2008 budget, where no office or funds are foreseen for the operation of such an office, I call again on you, not least the Minister, who is unfortunately not with us at this time, but I hope that the debate on this amendment will take place and that he will also provide further explanations as to why the Government does not support the amendment. And I'm going to say it again, or I'm going to try to explain the amendment. It is the establishment of the Office of the Child Defender within the framework of the Ombudsman in the context of the 2007 budget balance. By the way, let me remind you that under the same heading, the Government, within the Office of the Ombudsman, opened a new item on the implementation of the opium protocol in the 2007 budget balance. And for this item, which is also a reference to a declaration or ratification of a specific protocol, the Government has provided additional funds. And once again, to implement the optional protocol, where the Government has committed itself to do everything or to establish an independent state preventive mechanism against torture, against torture, that is to say that it will take care of rights, security, etc. Those who are in prison are called prisoners. If the government has taken such a step in the context of the budget's rebalancing, it is extremely sad that the government does not do something that has finally been committed in the coalition contract, something that undoubtedly contributes to greater security, if you want, of our children. And we hear many times the world stands on children. Let us do something to make children safer, to have greater protection within the legal system of our country. I have proposed an amendment, which, as has already been said, given that a new programme or sub-programme cannot be opened in the context of the budget rebalancing, is to be judged, at least in 2007, within the framework of the Ombudsman. Once again, I stress - and this is also stated in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment - that this is an independent independent office, the Office of Child Defenders. At last, allow me. The Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to ratifying or signing the United Nations Convention on the Protection of Children. You know, it is sad to hear in the Council of Europe that practically Slovenia is one of the most backward Member States of the Council of Europe, which does not actually have a specific policy for the protection of children, which, after all, does not have legislation to prohibit the corporal punishment of children. I ask you, and once again I call on the representatives of the Government or the Ministry to answer: "What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry specifically towards this amendment?"
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u255	Thank you. We're gonna open another application circuit. I would like to reiterate to the Government that it is possible to engage in the debate by raising the deadlines. Here's a new procedure, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I must say that, with interest or interest, I find that the representative of the Government did not want to be defined, at least until now, and I have not noticed that he would apply and show an interest in protecting children in this country. I must also say that it is very interesting or surprising when government Members find after three and a half hours of debate that the 2007 budget is ahead of us, so I believe that you have needed three and a half hours and that the government is spending money where it is most needed. I therefore ask whether it is really necessary for NATO or more necessary for social protection, for the protection of children and where money is taken literally, so it is very interesting what conclusions we have heard here today. You know, for you who are laughing and commenting, I have to say that Slovenia is, but you probably don't know, because you had a radio at home at the time, a convention on children's rights was adopted in 1989. Mr. Jazbec, did you know? No, and Slovenia supported it, and you didn't know it either. For 12 years we have not realized and we have not received the guardian of children's rights, even though this Convention, which we have supported, has already been in government for 2 years, and we do not have it, even though the Convention imposes it. And I believe that you didn't know that either, and that's why we're telling you now, so be careful when we vote, and let's do what the convention says, protect the children, and they're important to me, even if you have more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u257	Thank you. I call on Secretary of State Alenko Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u258	The Government is aware that the Ombudsman will carry out a pilot project on the creation of a two-year child protection system; and that resources are provided under the regular funding of the Ombudsman for the implementation of that pilot project.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u259	I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you are not well aware of the measure, especially in the part that talks about funding for the operation of the pilot project. The Ombudsman will not carry out this project. The Ombudsman does not have the financial resources to carry out this pilot project. And allow me, in the coming year, they will really start implementing this pilot project for children's advocates, but here they had to, because the country has done nothing, join NGOs. And NGOs were the ones that were going to the big campaign, and eventually, they were handing out notes so that the project could come to life. They carried out education in this area. And you know that this project will be able to come to life in 2007, which does not mean that there is no State funding, the Ombudsman, once again, I stress that it does not have these funds. If this amendment were adopted, the Ombudsman would provide funds for the implementation of that programme, which was also committed to by the Government or coalition parties in the Coalition Treaty. In order for this project to be able, but only to come to a test life, a designated representative involved in this project had to donate his financial resources. I don't know if you have bad information or if the government is literally lying when it gives you that information. Therefore, I ask you again, get accurate information, and I ask you for support, because if we provide the means, we will take a step forward. And it is sad and shameful for all the coalition Members if you do not support this amendment. This is what the government has committed itself to, or you have committed yourself to, all of you who are signatories to the coalition treaty. Allow me to read your document again, where it clearly states on page 22 "the establishment of the Office of Child Defenders as a stand-alone unit". In your round, you even wrote that this is the recommendation of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child of 30.1.2004. The coalition contract is written for the duration of your reign or is bound to one term. Your mandate will expire in two years! Today we are talking about the budget, the budget rebalancing for next year, tomorrow we will talk about the 2008 budget. There's no funds, there's no program! So your coalition contract has fallen to a very important point. And then your representatives talk about how good the budget is, how good the balance is, how much the prosecutors got, how much the judiciary got, how many new jobs will be in the judiciary. You say the government has put money in the areas where it is most necessary in the context of the budget rebalancing. And don't make fun of me, my respectable colleagues, it's the kids who need our protection first. Unfortunately, children’s rights are often under the rights of all of us adults. We have some legal protection, although this is very, very poor, an individual is very small compared to, or certain institutions, and children are so much smaller and much more in need of our assistance. I'll say, politics is primarily the one who's responsible and has the power to do something. Therefore, please consider, and I hope that during the debate, which is still scheduled for this debate, Minister Bajuk will also consult, not least with you or with the President of the Government, and will find so much good will and wisdom and listen and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u261	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr Happy Friend, allow me to welcome the participants of the 25th International Slovenian Symposium of the Period. I inform Members and Members that this year's Symposium has the title Literature in education, goals, content, methods. And I wish you, as many participants as possible, a visit to the National Assembly. And we are continuing the debate. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague would say that the coalition agreement seemed to matter only when the government was forming, and it wasn't just that empty promise written on this paper, some others. And it's time, dear fellows, for the deception to cease. We accept, as you know, laws that do not comply with the Constitution, we forget about the conventions and, on the other hand, we do not forget the directives of the European Community, which are irrelevant and we know how to translate them quickly, and we have already translated tons of documents into our legislation and we are not late. In the most unprotected part, these are children, and on the most abused part, these are against children, and we forget. Why? It's incomprehensible to me. And look, this amendment, which is before you, can undo this injustice. You are advocates of some large families, perhaps you are afraid that children will say what is happening to them today in these families and in church circles when such and other abuses occur. Maybe that's what you're afraid of, dear colleagues and colleagues. Are you afraid that children will tell the truth about how many times they are basically neglected, played, abused; and even when we come to the courts, we do not know how to finger the culprit and condemn him? How many convictions were legal and effective? I don't know any of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u263	Thank you. I will reopen the application procedure for discussion. Here you go. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go. Give it up. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. I just want to know how a bureaucrat who spends 75,000 euros can protect children. I know that this issue is open, but I am surprised that the party that is almost in a legal dispute with the Office of the Ombudsman suddenly gives the Ombudsman the silence. Above all, I am surprised that it takes funds from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, items that have been running for years and years and that are very necessary for the development of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u265	Thank you for an interesting discussion. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Now you've gone a little too far, dear colleague Ziherl. Shame on you for such a debate. Read it, we take the Church, the Church owns most of the private forests. It's that church. But we give children, we give children something that children have, I will say, throughout Europe, that you have committed yourself, your respectable colleague Ziherl, as well as you in the framework of the coalition contract; and you are ashamed if you do not know this or if you are spitting on your document now. I ask you again, these funds are provided for the operation of an independent child advocates' office, read an amendment, at least be enough to read an amendment before you talk about it. Yes, because it was not possible to open a new subroutine under the Rules of Procedure. We have provided funds within the framework of the Ombudsman, and the explanation clearly states for what purpose. And I have made this purpose clear to you, and I also ask you for your support for this amendment. It's child protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u267	Thank you. I believe that the content was very visually displayed for all those who, of course, have not read it. I see that there are desires after the debate, so I will reopen the application procedure. Here you go, please. We've got two reports. Member of the Council of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. I have to say, I agree with my colleague Žgeiner. Mr. Ziherl, this time you've taken three steps too far. You spit on your own coalition contract and you mention one bureaucrat that we have been paying in the Republic of Slovenia for so many years to protect human rights. I guess you're not gonna tell me that kids aren't human. We'll have to hire five more bureaucrats for the kids, if we have to, we can't hurt them. If you're giving it to the Church, give it to the children, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u269	Thank you. And the Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u270	Thank you very much. It was visually shown, but in the wrong direction and misinterpreted. Members of the SNS delegation probably also know and read the Constitution that the country is strictly separate from the religious communities, so please tell me which item is intended for these others.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u271	Please, I'm asking for peace in the hall. We continue to play within our rules, and I will reopen the procedure for reporting to the debate. Here you go. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I must say, since this Government has been in power, constitutional provisions have also been questionable. You know, the Church is getting less and less separate from the state since you've been in power, and that's sad. And who is the majority owner of forests in the Republic of Slovenia. Don't close your eyes, Fari.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u273	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u274	I'm just going to add one more sentence to that, and I believe I'll tell you everything. Minister Drobnic is introducing a resolution to raise fertility in our country. This resolution is shameful, for this resolution does not speak in a single sentence about the quality of the child's life. Once again, I ask you, fellow Members of the Council, as well as the Minister, to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u275	Thank you. Since there are no more debaters, I conclude the debate in connection with user 1214 - the Ombudsman. We are moving on to a discussion with user 1536 - Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, namely the Sub-programme Special Regional Policy Measures, the proposed amendment by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening the application procedure, please. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] I conclude the discussion with the user of the Local Self-Government and Regional Policy Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of user 1611 - Ministry of Finance we have two sub-programmes. I am opening the debate on the first sub-programme Complementary resources of citizens, proposed by Ambassador Milan M. Cwickl. I'm opening the application procedure. Member Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u276	If you allow me, I would just like to talk about the two amendments, the supplementary funds to the municipalities and the other amendments are the State's obligations to the PIC because they are similar content. In our parliamentary group, we believe that if a new Law on the Financing of the Communities is adopted, the municipalities will have sufficient resources so that we do not have to allocate additional funds to them. As far as PPIZ is concerned, I think pension rights are defined by pension law, so we do not need to have an additional guardian to allocate additional funds for this purpose. This, in particular, is because the main part of the funds is taken from state roads. This is about EUR 30 million or more than EUR 7 billion, and that is why we do not agree with such amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u277	Thank you. As I no longer see the desire for a discussion under this sub-programme, I am opening a discussion procedure under the sub-programme of the State Obligation to STIZ, the same proposer, Milan M. Squikla. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Regardless of the good purpose of almost all the amendments they would give, it is difficult to overlook the very poor mathematics of Mr. Squill where they would take it. In fact, if we look at all the amendments, if we go through the amendments of the LDS, we would take on item 5885, which has a total of EUR 3 million 620 thousand, and with all the amendments of the Cvikl would take as much as EUR 4 million. Unbelievable, mag. The economy could not be calculated, so these amendments are actually a joke from the budget. That's the first one. Second. I ask the Liberal Democracy whether it was for joining NATO, and if all these amendments were accepted, whether we still meet the conditions that we have accepted at the financial level. I think that 2% of the GDP of the budget should be earmarked for these matters if we are to be a member of NATO. I think that, in fact, the debate on further amendments is irrelevant, although on the part that they are supposed to give, they are very useful things; and I would be happy to support them if it were really possible to take this. And once again, I call Mr. Squeakle, a very bad account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u279	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on the amendment of the proposaler Milan M. Cwickle. I ask Members and Members if they support the proposal to further discuss the amendments' proposals through programmes, not sub-programmes. Do you agree? Do any of the Members present oppose? [[No, no, ……]] Then we switch to the user of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Within this user, we have two amendments under the sub-programme, for the first time – colleague Sam Bevk and Aurelia Yuri, followed by the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. And I'm opening a debate on both. Here you go, please. Here you go, buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. With this amendment, we are creating a special fund to help our citizens abroad who are in trouble, not on their own account. This year's case of the rescue of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Tom Križnar, from the Sudanese prisons, leads us to awaken the idea of establishing a special fund to help our citizens abroad. Such an idea has already been announced a few years ago by Dr Dimitrij Rupel himself, who I miss in this Chamber tonight, and I don't think there's any foreign ministry representative to make arguments about or against this amendment. As it is said, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel himself proposed the adoption of such a special rescue fund, or to help Yoshik Joras, who was arrested by Croatian police officers a few years ago. When I also discussed this in the Foreign Policy Committee last month, the Foreign Minister supported the creation of such a special fund. That is why we have also decided in the Group of Social Democrats because the Minister has agreed to submit this amendment to the Draft amending budget for 2007 and also for the following year, for the next budget document, for the period 2008, but we will talk about it tomorrow. I propose that this amendment to create a special fund to help our citizens who are in difficulties abroad be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u281	Thank you. Since no one else wants to discuss it within the user of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I conclude the debate. We're switching to user 2111, Ministry of the Economy. In this context, we have five sub-programmes and eight amendments. I am opening a debate on all eight amendments at the same time. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two registered Members on the list. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u282	If we just look at the first amendment, it's very interesting and I'd be happy to support it. But if we look at where this amendment is coming from, and if I add up all the amendments proposed by the Social Democrats' Group in this item, then there is a greater difference. From item 5885, this is the International Co-operation of the Ministry of Defence, where 3 million 620 thousand euros, they would have collected as many as 4 million 650 thousand euros with all the amendments, amounting to a million more than is on the item at all. I think it's a shame to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u283	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u284	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This amendment does not take place on this item, but on another item, which I will now talk about, relates to mining damage. In fact, the Mining Act provides that a mining organisation is obliged to compensate for the damage caused by mining. The legal obligation to remedy the effects of surface mining is also laid down in the special law, preventing the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idri. This extent of mining damage is also set out in a specific laboratory, which was created in 1992 and is an integral part of the completion of a long-term programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine for the period 1996-2006. In view of the findings and the monitoring of the consequences of mining in these ten years, this laboratory will need to be amended. The recovery of the effects of surface mining is carried out according to the plan and within the means approved for this purpose by the annual operational programmes prepared by the mine and then adopted by the Government. However, in view of the long-term programme to prevent the consequences of unexploded mining, some EUR 3 million is still available, of course at the prices of 1995 and this will need to be revalued. In view of the resources granted in recent years, this area recovery programme will need to be extended at least until 2011 or even more. With this amendment, we are increasing the funds for mining damage for 2007, because with 70 million, such as this item now in the budget for next year, we cannot begin to intervene with the rehabilitation of the walls which are convincing that part of the city of Idria will be occupied. In fact, the estimated values for the rehabilitation of these walls amount to some more than 400 million and no such difficult geological rehabilitation can begin if you have only 70 million, you cannot open a hole and then wait for the next year, because due to weather conditions, rains, floods, replete terrain, there could be even bigger settlements than ever. I therefore propose that this amendment increase funds for mining damage in 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u285	Thank you. I'm opening a new application circuit. Comrade Anton Kokalj, I do not have the habit of Vice President Pavlich. I'll give you a replica if anyone mentions it. But I'll give you a chance to sign up for the debate. You're giving up? Good. Since there is no longer a desire to discuss, we are moving to a discussion with the user of the Ministry of Transport, where we have one programme and one sub-programme and one amendment. Applicant - Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy. I'm opening the application procedure. We've got two reports. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u286	Support the amendment that Slovenia will remain the crossroads of the fifth and tenth corridor and that we will not have to make a balance for 2007. The amendment seeks to provide real resources to the Railway Agency, but not only to finance rail transport from a large debt, which is not a real resource. So I suggest you support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u287	Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u288	Mr Vice-President, my debate will be of a procedural nature. In fact, the Rules of Procedure do not say that a Member must be mentioned if he wants a replica, but has the right to explain his position if he was misunderstood and that is why I volunteered. And please don't rush into such a hurry, even though there are a lot of amendments. Maybe you're in a really big hurry, but let's take some time. The budget is an important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u289	Comrade Anton Kokalj, if you are reading the Rules of Procedure, read it to the end. We continue the discussion, moving to user 2415 - Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia. Under this user we have one programme and 44 amendments, so I ask any debaters to tell the proposer at the beginning of their debate and where their debate is on. As a matter of fact, I am opening a debate with 44 amendments. Here you go, please. The word is by Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I would just like to express my satisfaction that my colleagues in the coalition supported me in the proposal I made. This is mainly the case for projects on the already mentioned road, which I have already mentioned today, in the Macedonian section, and also for some other facilities on this route Ljubljana-Polhov Gradec or Briše-Ljubljanica. I look forward to living with all the inhabitants there, finally living a normal, dustless life, and, above all, to the Bar, they will be able to drive on a normal and safe road. And we are all looking forward to the implementation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u291	Thank you. Member Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u292	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My debate concerns the amendment, the reconstruction of the road Šostanj-Vávodnje. I support this amendment proposed by the coalition. About a month ago, a month and a half ago, on this section of the road, we finished the asphalting, which is from Black to Slemen. This road was paved by the state for about 25 to 30 years, something like that. During this time, the road from Slemen to Šostanje fell apart and it is essential that the decision is now being made and that these roads are being restored. Otherwise, some small money is foreseen in 2007, some change, that's a good 83,000 euros, but better than nothing. And also because of such moves, I support the 2007 budgetary direction, when the Transport Ministry receives almost 30 million additional euros and 8 billion tolars. We who come from the outskirts of Slovenia welcome such a composition of the transport ministry's budget, which transfers most of the financing of motorways to Darsa loans, and therefore remains slightly more money for other projects in the budget. Unfortunately, we measure the development of a place with meters and miles of asphalt, not so much with culture, philharmonic or opera, and we talk mostly about the problem of roads in these areas. And these places with regard to transport infrastructure are lagging behind and, thank God, there have been changes in recent years so that we can also count on better times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u293	Thank you. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am also joining my colleague Mir Petk, and I am also supporting the amendment on the relation of Šostanj-Zavvodnje and against Koroška. Certainly this road needs to be completed, another amendment is that it also talks about the reconstruction of the road through Šostjanj, probably an amendment by Mr Koren, who is now a coalition amendment, and I also support this amendment, of course. But I'll also talk about my three amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u295	Comrade Kontic, I'll only ask you to give us a serial number in front of everyone so we can find him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u296	First, about the amendment tabled by Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, under order number one, if I go in line. I think that the funds that my colleague Lahovnik has foreseen, otherwise, are low resources, but may certainly be sufficient for the purposes that he stated in the explanatory statement, are part of the Velenje-Arje road of Vas or Arja vas-Velje, to increase traffic safety and to reconstruct the intersection or rather - the intersection on this road. This amendment is certainly worth supporting. The next amendment is an amendment that I tabled, unfortunately there is not the necessary support for the working body, although I am sure that those Members and Members as well as all others who use the Arja vas-Velenje road, we know that this road needs reconstruction despite the forecasting of the so-called third development axis, whose spine will be a fast road connecting the highway to Koroška. But given the experience we have in Slovenia with the construction of fast roads and motorways, especially their placement in space, it would make sense to do something on Velenje-Arje Road and, of course, Velenje-Slovenian Gradec, nothing better on this route. So, without making sense, these interventions are necessary; and the funds that are earmarked are of course not sufficient, so I propose additional funds. I am also aware of the difficulties that may arise and have arisen during the current year, that certain projects are not prepared because the Roads Directorate did not plan such extensive interventions or interventions as were possible in relation to the funds earmarked for this road. But I think it's a long year and it's the power to do a lot of things this year and these resources are useful to use for reconstruction. We are warned by economists, we are also warned by everyone else from our area, namely the Shale Valley, and we can also join the Shaleska Valley, the whole of which benefits this road to become or has become a bottleneck in the past, which hinders the further development of the economy. If I only mention Gorenje, where every few minutes, every minute she leaves the yard of this Slovenian giant one truck, whether it is a tow truck, a trailer or a tow truck. This means that traffic on this road is very dense and that traffic is also very questionable from a safety point of view, because on this road there may be only a few kilometers in total, but it is probably not possible to speak in the crowd that drivers can use to even outrun a truck, and everything else means driving in a column that also causes nervousness and overcoming where no traffic is allowed and then traffic accidents. So the intervention on this part of the road is certainly necessary, and this amendment, which has been tabled for the reconstruction of this road, is recommended to be accepted. The next amendment is under order number 4, where we are trying or trying, but now the Parliamentary Group is trying, because the Rules of Procedure so require, to allocate additional funds for the road, the state road on the Velenje-Polzel route. Anyone who travels on this road can see that this road is no longer a road, that it becomes a plain macadam road, but that this road also means a very dangerous section, so it will have to be repaired. I know that the Government is planning to rehabilitate this road in the coming years, but given that we have not done so in the past year and has not adopted an amendment, that perhaps this year, so for 2007 we take this into account in the budget rebalancing, and that we give these countries that live on this road some of the necessary transport infrastructures, they also point out the risks, and I have also referred to the questions referred to in this title or to the Ministry. And there has always been an answer that there are no funds foreseen, but of course it is possible to allocate them in the budget for this purpose and allow the Ministry or Directorate for Roads to finally intervene on this part of the road. The third amendment, which I am discussing, is under order number 5, and this is the state road, which also connects the Shaleska Valley with Koroška, which is from Velenje via Škal, Graška Gora to Slovenj Gradca. This is one of the roads that is very busy, especially when anything happens on the main road, i.e. the state road on Velenje-Slovenianje Gradec, and this road is also used for the bypass. Otherwise, it is also some kind of northern bypass in the Shaleška Valley, which serves to avoid this main road in the Velenje-Šostanj connection, where Gorenje is also on the road, and the coal mine then the thermal power plant and, of course, it means great traffic congestion at the tip and then, of course, this road is very welcome, because it unloads the main connecting road. The road's been dangerous for a while. A few years ago, we were able, two, three years ago, to rebuild part of this road, to recoat it, but when we watched the works on this road, we could see that this part of the road was needed, but that it was not the most necessary part of the road to rebuild. But it is also, as I said, a dangerous road actually most through the village, Škale settlement, Škale-Hrastovec, where through the ravine, you could almost say, leads this road, which is very damaged, somehow is not safe enough not for pedestrians or children who go to school, and of course not for other participants in traffic. There is also a time to rebuild this road, mainly for the sake of ensuring additional safety, and of course, as we have done from Šostanje via Montenegro or via the Zavodnje and Slemen do Koroška, to also this relation Velenje-Škale-Graška Gora, Pšivec-Graška Gora and Slovenj Gradec, we arrange to allow traffic or better connection of the Šalej Valley to the Koroška valley. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u297	Thank you, too. The next on the list of applicants is the Member of Minister Simoniti, please listen. [[...]] Thank you. I also ask all government members: Is the use of the phone allowed at government meetings? It's not. Then I ask that he also respects the meeting of the National Assembly so much that you do not make a telephone call during the meeting. It shall apply to ministers and in any way to secretaries of state. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The House of Honor! When we look at the amendments submitted to individual road sections under the programmes of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, it is interesting what the amendments of the opposition Members say. Government: rejects, mother labor: does not support. But when the four coalition groups are in line, the government: supports, the mother's working body: supports. I recall from previous times that the previous governments have also supported some amendment of the opposition members for hygiene reasons, so I appeal to you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to do this in contrast to the 2005 and 2006 budgets in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. Besides, I've tabled three amendments. One amendment refers to the section of the road Godovič-Kalce, the other refers to the section of the road Idria-Jiri and then the third amendment, Godovic-Black Vrh nad Idrija. On this occasion, I would like to talk first about the first amendment, which is the 6th amendment in a row, Godovich-Kalce. In fact, this is an amendment relating to the part of the Idrija arm of the so-called fourth development axis, which is an integral part of the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia, which is beautifully drawn here. This strategy was adopted in the 2004 National Assembly. This fourth development axis is part of the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopted this year in the National Assembly. This part of the axis, which I must describe, goes from Sosoča and one of the legs stretches towards Cerkne and Poljanska valley to Škofje Loka and forward to Jeprce, while the other part goes through the Idrijca valley through Idrija to the highway cross at Logatec. In all the development documents we have only one part, it is said, of this fourth development axis, while the Idrian part of the fourth development axis has unfortunately fallen out. It fell out of Slovenia's Investment Priorities 2007-2013, which the Government has prepared to run for the European Funds. This Idrial part of the fourth development axis fell out of the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, so that there is, I say, a disabled fourth development axis, and the third development axis and the third development axis are fully covered. In addition, this part of the fourth development axis has also fallen out of all the development programmes that are part of these documents, which we are considering today and tomorrow, so to speak, the 2007 and 2008 budgetary documents. In the development programme plan, there is a new item, the fourth development axis, but only the upper leg of this fourth axis. Although I have been alerting the Minister of Transport for a year or more, nothing has happened. At the time of the visit of the North Primor region or Goriška, the President of the Government came first and began this visit in Idrija, in the Collector Corporation. There he had a very successful photo term because he came to one of the most successful companies in Slovenia. And in October, a few months after this visit, we get a resolution adopted by the Government without this fourth axis, without modernising the road to the most important economic operators in our country, to the most developed industrial area, because the corporations Kolektor, Hydra, are further towards Tolmin, above Cerkljanski, Meta Cerkno. And we have experienced long-term transport and development isolation by the Government. So, in these documents that we are dealing with, there is nowhere to go and there is no lower Idrija, there is no more ambitious reconstruction of the road in the Idrija-Godovic competition, there is no bypass in Godovic, there are no more ambitious projects than Godovic-Kalc, there is no new access to the highway from Kalc and somewhere between Logatec and Unec. So when it comes to painting in a successful economy, the whole government is there, when something has to be written down at least in the development resolutions, we get zero. That is why I have submitted a symbolic sum for this amendment, not to succeed, but to tell the public, to the distinguished ministers sitting here tonight in the Chamber, to your esteemed colleagues and colleagues and also to the Slovenian public, if anyone sees it by chance. And for hygienic reasons, it would be good, respected coalition colleagues to support some opposition amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u299	Thank you. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to discuss not every single section or turn, but somehow I'll put it in two slots. First are amendments from number 1 to including number 9. These are amendments put forward by members of the opposition. I am sure that much of what is proposed here is necessary, more or less. The problem is on the other side, where to take it so we can put it where it's missing. And if I look where that came from, it's mostly public debt servicing. So, what do we do with the public debt if we put it in the streets? Then where are we gonna take for public debt? Are we going to be in debt to service public debt - or, I don't know? That's the only thing that makes me think that I just can't support these amendments. Not because of the first part, but because of the second part. The other thing that bothers me, with at least two of the amendments proposed by the Member of the Liberal Democracy, is some indiscretion or, in my opinion, perhaps a lack of seriousness. Therefore, two LDS Members propose to increase the funds for investment maintenance of state roads. Before that, however, we have considered three amendments by Member Milan Cwickl of the same parliamentary group, which proposes that investment maintenance of state roads be reduced. I kind of don't get along with this, so I've got some weird feelings about this approach. Whether it is a serious approach, whether it is fair or well-intentioned - I don't know. Then, if we continue to go to the amendments from 10 to 44 submitted by the coalition of government parties. Here behind these are some real resources where we could take these things. The main thing is to redistribute funds from the highway construction programme. We know that we have adopted a guarantee law in the National Assembly, which allows Darsu to do so because it is a matter of some long-term investment, that he also owes himself both from this title and, of course, that he has a real source of payment resulting from the toll, from which the construction of motorways will also be provided for further. However, the funds provided for in the budget may be redistributed for the necessary programme of reconstruction or investment maintenance of state roads, which have been very neglected in the past 10, 15 or more years and which are in fact necessary interventions. That is why we will support these amendments from 10 to 44 in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u301	Thank you. Unfortunately, no one will be able to respond to your dilemma, because there are no Members on the proposal. I'm reopening the debate. Here you go, please. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, secretaries of state! I would like to discuss the area north of Ljubljana, the road infrastructure and the problems in this area. We have managed to obtain some resources for the reconstruction of state roads, which are too small in view of the ambitious plan, which has been lagging behind the needs for several decades now, namely, that in this area of lower Gorenjska or north of Ljubljana the U-system is somehow closing down with a fast connecting road between the Styrian and Goran highways, which is being completed by construction in Šentvid - this U ring around Ljubljana. Ljubljana itself already has problems with its ring and is fully filled. However, the reasons are a large increase in passenger cars and nothing made on public transport. I believe that we should provide more resources to rebuild truly bad state roads in this area, we are talking about the Mengsha area, for the area north of Domžal, where these state roads are, in fact, at large, in the economic and developmental very important area of Slovenia. It is said that the problem is not only outside the centres, but also in this central part of Slovenia we have a very poor state of state roads. However, I believe that the connecting road between the Styria and Gorenjeks should in fact be built as a priority, and I hope that this Government will not only implement the national programme for the construction of motorways and these roads, which are in this programme of Darsov, but will, in view of the developments which have accelerated with the realisation of these bottlenecks, which are mainly reflected in individual modernisations and constructions. Thank you very much for this support so far, but I think this is just a serious first step towards providing adequate means for the realisation of traffic problems and poor state roads in 2008 and 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u303	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u304	Thank you so much for saying that. So the second amendment speaks of modernisation or at least asphalting the Idria-Jiri road. That is to say, where our mayor's colleague, Mr Starman, is once again the mayor's seat. This is also the shortest link to the mountain part of the Idrija Valley. The following amendment adds the item Godovič-Black Vrh nad Idrija, it is said, that part of that connection from the Idrija end to the Vipavska valley, to the sunny and green Primorsko. However, as to what was said where the funds were taken, and Mr Hvauc said that he would otherwise support this, that the item seemed to him to be wrong. We are therefore taking up public debt servicing with the Ministry of Finance, the obligations under the Financing of Budget Implementation - domestic debt. Of course, if there is a will in the finance ministry, this can also be done, this has happened many times in the past on this item. I remember the great mega coalition amendment for a billion and a half in the previous term, which was easily taken from this item. And you yourself, when you were preparing the budget balance in the government, took certain funds right from this item. Since this is not such a large sum, and this item is one of the highest in the state budget, of course, if the political will were in the government and even in the finance ministry, we would be able to do so and take it where I propose. Because this has happened many times. The former Government has been taking funds on this item and you have already done so in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u305	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss with the user of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving to a discussion with user 2511 of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Within this user we have five subroutines and eight amendments. I am opening a debate on all eight amendments together, and at the same time I would like to ask you once again to give the debaters the orderly number of the amendment and the proposer. I'm opening the procedure, please. We have one of the panellists, Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u306	Thank you for your word. With regard to the budget item, I would like to draw attention to the amendments that speak of somehow coordinating the programmes in the water fund. I have a feeling that either they are ill-planning on the water fund or coalition Members are more familiar with the water economy. Indeed, it would be more appropriate if we really provided more resources in the water economy, because I know that the needs in this area are extremely large, but somehow in the last 10 years or even more, it does not give sufficient attention to this area. However, it is difficult to understand the purpose of these allocations from the explanations, from where and how they are redistributing coalition groups of funds, so as to be able to obtain any additional explanation as to why these transfers are even necessary. I would also like to present further the amendment of the Social Democrats, which we have tabled in this area of housing by the budgetary users. This is about an increase of €5 million, as housing is one of the most pressing topics in Slovenia, which needs to be given more attention, and in particular more resources are needed to do so. The prices of apartments in Slovenia, mainly in the capital and in the regional centres, are extremely high and, of course, difficult to access especially for young families. If we know that the tax package has also abolished tax reliefs for those who solve their housing problem, then it is not expected that housing prices will be lower and that they will be more accessible to young people and those who solve this problem, because these apartments are simply not enough on the market and not at the appropriate price. If we have more resources to do this, of course, more housing will be available, of course the housing market will be more balanced and it will all contribute to those looking for a solution to their housing problem, to be able to do so in a very timely manner and in a way that will be primarily accessible to them. In short, it is incomprehensible that, on the one hand, the Government in one district removes some reliefs that are very important for housing, on the other hand also does not add resources to accelerate housing construction, but we know that housing also has an extremely large impact on economic growth, as investment in construction is linked to a number of production processes and this also stimulates economic growth by direct investment of public funds in housing. In view of the fact that, in the area of motorways, resources are taken without any major reservations, I believe that this resource is also extremely suitable to invest in the field of construction, if I may say so, back and thus contribute in particular to the speedy resolution of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u307	Thank you. This concludes the debate with the users of the Ministry of the Environment under number 2511. We are passing under user 2512 - Geodetic Administration, where we have a proposal to amend one sub-programme in the sense of one amendment. Who wants a word? Here you go. None. This concludes the debate. We are moving to user 2523, Agency of the Republic of Slovenia - for the environment. We have three amendments under the two sub-programmes. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. We've got one of the advertised discussers. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go. Give it up. This concludes the debate. We are moving to a debate on user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We have four subroutines and six amendments. I'm asking you to sign up. We have five panellists reported. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Under this programme, we have three amendments concerning the expansion of the networks of old people's homes. One of them was Ambassador Znidaršič. It has been announced on the working body that this amendment will be withdrawn, and we also withdraw it, provided that, as it was written under the first amendment concerning the expansion of the home network for the elderly, this sum is included and we have such assurance. So, we're going to vote for the first amendment that talks about expanding the networks of the homes of the elderly, the third one, and we're withdrawing ours for that reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u309	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. I would like to present the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group under order number 2 in the Sub-programme Creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses. In the course of the budget debate, we always come to the attention of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs when it comes to action related to jobs and to the greater employability of those groups which we do not believe are capable of proving the extremely favourable statistics with which the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs likes to commend each other. We believe that for quite some time we have been getting warnings about structural unemployment and about the unfavourable distribution of unemployment through sex structures, the proportion of unemployed women is higher than that of unemployed men. In our opinion, however, particularly worrying data are in the most vulnerable category, this is in the case of educated youth. This is expected to meet a number of expectations, and it is expected to take on the greatest burden in the future. We are talking a lot about the inflexible labour market and what else we have proposed and that is why we have proposed an amendment that, within the scope of the spending area, the labour market and the working conditions of the main programme 1003 - Active employment policy, on the sub-programme Creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses - budget item 8674 - Aid for self-employment - increases the amount by EUR 500,000. We believe that this would have beneficial effects for the most pervasive group of young people willing to enter self-employment. We expect those who are willing to take the risk for their future when entering the labour market to be increased by half a million euros to be worth the support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u311	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u312	Thank you. The active employment policy is, of course, far from what we expect in Slovenia, because talking about having a flexible labour market at the same time is aware that some obviously do not have enough jobs at our disposal is the wrong employment policy. And that the consequences of such thinking, however, will not be felt too much in the environment, we suggest that we encourage especially those who have an education to solve their problems through self-employment. I therefore propose that this amendment, which we have tabled for this purpose, also support that, at least to those who can solve this problem themselves and independently of the 'active employment policy', we help to reduce unemployment in particular and thus increase the prospects of young people and, above all, of the places where they are located. Indeed, the figures on unemployment are extremely different, both in individual regions and in individual municipalities. And given that the country can't actually do enough to figure out how much more evenly to redistribute these funds, this is one of the tasks that I hope we will ever see in the future in the National Assembly, that it's actually not good, that we're just going to devote some resources to solving unemployment, without having to do a more detailed analysis of the individual community or a wider area that is far behind the average in the region or far behind the Slovenian average. Even if we go to the possibility of self-employment, it seems to me that these options are somehow equal throughout the space, and therefore this amendment is even more important if it is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u313	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u314	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. On the home committee, we adopted a new Law on the Elimination of the Implications of Asbestos. This was a bill proposed by a group of coalition members and should also include an environmental aspect of asbestos exposure. Well, in the end, the proponents have so mutilated their proposal that there is virtually nothing left of it; they are only compensations for the most serious form of disease, namely mesothelioma, practically incurable cancer. It is only for this reason that environmental residents exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos will be able to receive compensation if these compensations are also awaited. However, the Home Committee has adopted my amendment that this law should enter into force instead of 1.1.2008, according to 1.1.2007, one year earlier. That is why, in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, we have also drafted a budget amendment so that we can implement this law a year earlier, it is said, in 2007. I think that the adoption of this amendment would be a good gesture, because people living around these production facilities or where asbestos used to be used were very dissatisfied with the adoption of this defiling law. Indeed, this problem of asbestos patients will still be faced in the future, the peak of disease, experts say, should be in Europe as well as in Slovenia around 2030, because due to a very long latent period, the disease can of course occur up to 40 years after exposure to asbestos dust. However, since this law was fundamental and the end of the production of asbestos in Slovenia was enacted in 1996, of course this can occur in the next period. And this: Even today, Slovenian railway workers are exposed to asbestos because they have to remove this asbestos from railway cars, so let me just say that on Slovenian railways only now they have in nicknames, as Dr. Zlata Remškar says, "one fire-fighting action" when 100 railway workers were examined in a hospital in Golnik and unfortunately these results are not the best results of these investigations. It is said that the problem of asbestos diseases in Slovenia will still be faced. Let me also say that this year's European campaign against asbestos is said to be the year 2006 against asbestos diseases and the second half of this year will also launch a special inspection campaign in all Member States of the European Union, how these laws are being implemented and how this is happening with us. Therefore, I think it would make sense to support this amendment, which provides the means for the implementation of this law already in 2007, and thus demonstrate the willingness to address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u315	Thank you. The word has a member of Parliament Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u316	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to talk about the sub-programme Social Protection of the Old, where three amendments have been tabled. One I think is withdrawn, the last, and all three are talking about the item Program network for the elderly, essentially building, adaptations, home upgrades in Slovenia. I am pleased that they have listened to the coalition and we have agreed to increase the item by about 700 million, and I am particularly pleased that the amendment defines that funds for building or upgrading at home in Trebnje amounting to 175 000 will also be allocated from these funds, so that we will be happy to support this amendment. The two other amendments are the same, only that the items are smaller, so we will support the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u317	Thank you. That's my conclusion. You want another round. I'm reopening the debate. Here you go. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I will also support the amendment concerning the home network, because we know that we already lack 15,000 beds for the elderly who need full-time care and health care, so it is valuable that the coalition has listened to proposals and to Mrs Uhanova and also our proposals to increase funds on this item, and in particular my conclusion that the presence of the pensioner home in Third, which is not a major investment, will also be valuable for an environment that already has a great shortage and a long waiting period. So I think it is very good that we have agreed on this and we will not only support the amendment, but also the change or rebalance of the budget as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u319	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u320	Thank you. In view of the fact that three amendments have been tabled on the same subject, namely the Home Network Programme for the Elderly. Well, DeSUS then withdrew his amendment in this period, but an interesting comparison of resources to save the Home Network for the Elderly. Social Democrats propose to take the funds into Darsa's programme, i.e. highways, and invest in networks of homes for the elderly, but DeSUS has proposed that these funds be provided in the field of agriculture. The government believes that it is more appropriate if we build a network of homes for the elderly with transfers for the socially disadvantaged, which we can think of as going in a direction where the government does not actually have a social policy, because taking funds for transfers to the socially disadvantaged means that we will make even greater differences in Slovenia between those receiving financial assistance and among the other residents of the Republic of Slovenia. A very unbalanced policy and it seems to me that this is indeed an inappropriate way to address the social problem in Slovenia and it would be much more appropriate for social programmes, especially for home networks, to find funds either in agriculture as proposed or in the area of roads. However, if I remain in the agricultural field for a moment as a possible source, none of the agricultural consumers to the 2007 budget had any criticism or need for additional funds. So there is more than enough reserve in this area to allow funds to be redeployed from this item also for a network programme home for the elderly. And I think that the Government has made the right decision to go to this network with greater resources, but far from deciding to take the right to take on transfers for the socially disadvantaged - unfair and I also do not know how we will actually implement social policy in Slovenia if, in fact, we treat those who are most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u321	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I don't really object to building a home for the elderly either. But you know, it's highly moralally controversial to have a coalition beat on the shoulders, as much as it's done for the elderly, to take financial resources on the cash social assistance line. This is either the lowest or the most socially endangered segment of the population. And I'm sorry that my colleague Ziherl is not here right now, because he recently told me that I am taking the forest owners from the state budget to give children.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u323	Thank you. We're opening a new circuit of applications. Here you go. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mravljak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On several occasions, the heading on agriculture and comparison with social matters were mentioned. There's always a problem, and we've heard that a lot today. I would only explain what we have also done in writing when this amendment is tabled, that if taken from this item, EU funding is at risk. By the way, it's always 8:80. And it is a rural development programme for which we have great plans, and this item in our budget is extremely inappropriate to take money for these purposes, which are clearly and undoubtedly necessary. I would add only so much that, under the rural development programme, the so-called fourth os-LIDER also envisages local initiatives where it is possible to co-finance similar construction programmes or care, both socially and for the rural population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u325	Thank you. Secretary of State Cotman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u326	With regard to the explanation of why we are taking transfers to socially disadvantaged people, I must point out that this is in line with the Social Protection Act, where we anticipate a reduction in monetary and social assistance. We've come to this amount, if we have recipients of cash social assistance, that's all 90 thousand, that's all, including family members, not just individuals, we've calculated if out of these 90 thousand 1,500 there were fewer, we would get to that amount. This is a purely real picture of 1,500, and we expect even less, recipients of monetary social assistance. And on the basis of the legislation adopted, we have come up with this data to reduce funds on social transfers precisely because of the consequences of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u327	How about 1500? We continue the debate. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u328	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to recall how it was on March 20th this year, the Primorska News reported: In the coalition it boils honestly before tomorrow's treatment of asbestos law. And the main title: They're packing their applications. Now, next week, this amended law, of course, will be adopted, very huddled. For example, the Environment Minister, Mr Podobnik, last year's end assured him that he would find room in the new asbestos law for the environmental consequences of the use of asbestos. After that discipline, however, it was said, it is not only a problem of Soot and asbestos, of course, but here are Idrija and mercury, the Mežíska Valley and the Ripper swimming pool, as the Environment Minister said. I expect a comprehensive law to be drawn up in the Government now, not only because of harmful asbestos emissions, but also because of other harmful emissions. Comrade Testen also said at the time that they were a national problem and that the law needed to solve the problem of the peoples. And Daniel Krivec of the Coalition SDS also said in this article that a new law should be recast shortly. Thus, the prominent policies of the coalition are to essentially adopt the matter, this law will also be adopted next week, and we guarantee with this amendment that this law can be implemented a year earlier. It's not 2008, it's 2007. However, the doctors sitting here know how long the survival is or how long a patient with mesothelioma dies and if the law doesn't start until 2008, there will be no compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u329	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u330	Thank you. With the projected increase in the number of old people, it would, of course, be very shortsighted to oppose the increase in funds allocated to build a network of homes for the elderly, and I cannot help but commenting that many times the Social Democrats cannot be satisfied with who succeeds in the competition to obtain a home for the elderly and who turns out, often showing data that, say in the Drava Valley, there should be a home for the elderly and is moving elsewhere. But that's one part of the problem of how they're distracted. Another thing we give a guy at home for the elderly. It is also true that the two amendments that you are still in the game differ according to the level of the funds, and it has been pointed out that the difference is essential to tell you where these funds cover. And may the Secretary of State forgive me for reminding me once again that the category of people entitled to transfers for the socially disadvantaged is such that, with the legislation adopted recently, we have been interfering with the extent of the funds allocated to them. While it is interesting that one minister explains the difference between not raising a certain amount and not actually reducing it, the other says otherwise. But the fact is that we have already determined how much the country will save because it will only coordinate them once a year and there is something else to say. And here are the real concerns we save in poor people. And by doing so, one cannot be satisfied, and we also know that the more the standard in a society rises, the more the threshold of poverty, or the censor of poverty being raised, the more resources should be planned. However, if someone thinks that the picture is so favorable to us that those below the threshold are getting less and less, as we read in some statistics, it would be good to look around a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u331	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u332	Thank you very much again for your word. As the Government has said, the government does not take on the social poor, but it assumes that an active employment policy, and that better control of abuses may also save on this account. This account will then build some more home in Slovenia, which we urgently need. Thus, in New Slovenia, we are confident that no social poor will be left without support at the expense of the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u333	Thank you. I can see the desire is for a rerun. Here you go, please. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Well, I should say the following in this debate on the home network. While we have managed with the agreement to increase the funds by EUR 2 million by around EUR 700 000, it is important to note that most of this money will be designed to adapt the very long-term homes we already have, and only a small part, it is said, around EUR 730 000, to co-finance the pensioners' home in Trebnje, which is, of course, very little if we are thinking about new capacities. Given the actual needs, of course, this moment cannot be criticised in advance for the allocation of funds for this area, since it may actually be part of the needs to cover this public-private partnership and homes that are built by the own resources of non-state investors. But given the social strength of those who need homes, in the future we will have to provide greater resources, at least to the extent of one larger home annually with perhaps 150 beds. Because what we will now invest in new capacities from this money will give about 30, 35 more beds when this foundation in Trebnje is finished, and nothing more. I therefore welcome this increase in resources, but it is right to conclude that this is not enough for the issue in this area and that the public-private partnership will deliver certain results, but not to the extent that it could cover growing needs in the long or medium term. So in the coming years it will be necessary to provide more resources, I think, at least if I speak in tolars, a billion and a half or two, so that we can build one larger home every year. If we do not do so, within 10, 15 years the problem will be uncontrollable, and home care or care is already more expensive than full - time institutional protection in nursing homes. So the big question is whether it pays to help at home to give much more than we give today, perhaps more already, for all those who would want to keep them as long as possible in the home environment, which is also usually the desire of these older people, and of course until the moment they do not need more than an hour or two a day’s assistance; as soon as they lie down and need all day’s care and care and medical care, then home care is necessary and the only cheap form. Therefore, in view of the economic strength of older people, it is necessary to continue to consider co-financing by the budget, as this investment will continue to give more perspectives than other forms of protection for older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u335	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u336	Thank you for your word. Well, the efforts of the government and the ministry to reduce the number of socially disadvantaged by active employment policies must be welcomed. But I would believe that if we supported our amendment to this chapter, which we tabled just to encourage an active employment policy and, above all, to increase resources to help self-employment. Well, the coalition firmly rejected this and considered it extremely inappropriate to take the resources for an active employment policy at the Ministry of Defence, in its activities abroad; not to build and update our technique, but to take the resources, in fact, for the activities carried out by this Ministry in its international activities in crisis response operations, etc. It would be better to predict that there will be no crisis responses in the world and let us take risks there, rather than risk social threats in Slovenia, so that there will be fewer of them because we expect fewer. So the government's predictions in this area are really unrealistic, and I repeat, I would trust them if they supported our amendment to further accelerate this active employment policy by additional means. I'm afraid that's not the case. I would like to reiterate once again that this source, where it is taken as a network programme, is extremely sensitive and very unfair to take action in this area. Finally, it would also be much easier within the agricultural programme to redistribute these funds, which are also being taken in the amendment, which is no longer by DeSUS, and otherwise there are extremely large delays in the payment of these funds from Europe; even after two, three years, people are waiting for these funds to be received and nothing would actually happen in one budget until they have adopted a balance and the matter would be very well covered. But our amendment, of course, takes place at Dars', and if we follow the amendments where the funds were being taken, Dars was right for Dars with the greatest ease. The government was taking the resources of Darsa with the greatest ease, and I think that there would be no crisis here, too, if the amendment was supported by the Social Democrats, where we allocate funds to the elderly network or home for the elderly and, of course, these funds are taken from Dars. I propose that this amendment be supported and, of course, does not jeopardise transfers for the socially disadvantaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u337	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, then I'm closing the debate. I am moving to a discussion with user 2711 - Ministry of Health. Within this ministry, we have three sub-programmes and four amendments. Please apply to all four amendments. Here you go. The first is Ambassador Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u338	Thank you for your word. So, I would only like to draw attention to the amendment that restores funds on the sub-programme sub-programme sub-programme to the Seconds and trainees. So this is the value of 2.7 billion that we are transferring from the budget to the health treasury. We warn Members and Members, including the letter we received from the Health Insurance Office, that, of course, the transfer of liabilities from the budget to the Treasury can start destabilising this treasury so that the rights of insured persons can be restricted and, of course, we suggest that we return the funds [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u339	Thank you, too. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u340	Thank you for your word. In this area, we are proposing an amendment to provide funding for the drug prevention programme. Indeed, it is incomprehensible that this problem, as it all appears, is not known by the Government and, in particular, not by the Ministry of Health, when it is actually abolishing funds for the drug prevention programme. So many problems, so many very difficult situations in a family where drugs occur, are not faced with any other type of addiction or are significantly more manageable and measurable than in a drug program. It is so difficult for us to understand such a direction that these programmes are being abolished and the question raised is how, in these cases, dog. Drug use, as far as I know, is not in decline in Slovenia, previously in growth. Even certain groups that have already fallen into this have extremely serious problems, even if they are willing to come out of these problems, of course, it seems that the Government is turning its back on them in Slovenia. Unfairly, unfairly, therefore, I think it is also necessary to consider once again, in the international cooperation of the Ministry of Defence, providing for a few fewer crisis hotspots in the world, and to foresee that the drug crisis in Slovenia is and to devote these funds to this amendment for this programme. I think that's really necessary, because it's incomprehensible that we're shutting down these programs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u342	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The answer to the amendments on trainees and secondarys has already been prepared many times and also forwarded at different ends and places, and because I have to repeat this now: in fact, one such letter from the insurance company is not quite real enough not to use any other term that would show the situation more realistically, so I will just say that no programme or right will be deprived of anything. That is why there is no fear, but I am responsible for it, and that is why in the coming year I will also make sure that the waiting periods are reduced even more than they have been before, or at least as long as they have been. However, they will not be extended in any way, as they did in the previous term. I don't think the Ministry can support this amendment because it doesn't solve anything, but it could only lead to unnecessary problems. Especially because, in this way, salaries will be paid for secondary and trainees as well as for all others who receive salaries through a health insurance company. As for this second piece on drugs, I can say that the Ministry of Health does not abolish any programmes to prevent addiction. The spending rights are even increased due to a thorough restructuring of the financial plan and are transferred to implementation in other sub-programmes as described in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word, please? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Moving to user 3111, Ministry of Public Administration. We have two subroutines here and one amendment each. Who wants a word, please? Check-in is on. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u344	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Public Sector Wage Scheme Act provides that wage imbalances in the public sector must be definitively eliminated by the end of 2009 at the latest. For this purpose, a specific dedicated item has been opened in the State budget and wages will start to be paid from this title in the following year. With the amendment we are proposing, we want to eliminate the wage imbalances in the area of culture. In fact, there is a particular difference when comparing employees in education and employees in culture, especially in comparable places. In the country, there are around 2,500 employees in the area of culture, which is quite a number, which is why relatively high resources are needed for these wage imbalances. Let me give you an example of a more plastic case: a librarian or librarian in a school library in a primary school or high school gets about 105 thousand dollars higher net salary than an employed librarian or librarian in a similar workplace with the same education in a cultural institution. Thus, for equal work in the state sphere, employees in the public sector also have 100,000 and more net less or more salaries. Therefore, I think it is imperative that this wage imbalance be eliminated as soon as possible. In school, the union was very active, so he managed to raise salaries in school, while in culture he was denied both in the union and in the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Payment imbalances and funds are, of course, provided in accordance with Article 50 of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act and also through a initial agreement between the Government and the representative public sector union. But we will, of course, define dynamism and height and the way in the future on the basis of a collective contract for the public sector, as you know, in the final stage of coordination. Of course, any preconceivement at this time has no purpose or basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Mr. Roman Rep. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We move on to user 3211 - Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here we have three subroutines and seven amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Willie Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We also have a case here where it's the same program and two amendments with different sources and different heights. Let me say that we, personally, as well as my colleagues in the parliamentary group, will support the idea of building the Medical College in Maribor as quickly as possible so that it does not delay. And let me explain why we think that's right. The Maribor municipality has already provided land at an estimated value of about 500 million tolars. An investment programme and an idea project are also provided in Maribor. However, a location plan has been provided or has already been adopted. By the way, I should say that eight tenants have already been resettled, which required replacement housing, and that now there is still a need for resources for two activities. For the first time, to move as quickly as possible nine additional tenants to alternative dwellings, and therefore no funds are provided, and to ensure that what Minister Zupan also promises us in writing is already provided on other items, i.e. funds for the architectural competition. And as Minister Bajuk, he ensures that, if these funds were insufficient, it is also possible to transfer funds from the reserve. At the very least, it would be necessary to provide at least additional funds for those nine alternative dwellings to be built or purchased. And since we estimate that there would be sufficient funds for this in that amendment, which we call Kangler's proposal, we will support that proposal, but of course we will not oppose the proposal for 2 million euros, which also speaks of other sources. The source for Kangler's amendment may not be the best, but we do believe that if this source were to be misconstrued, the damage at the Ministry of Defence would be smaller than it would be if we did not have a new medical university in Maribor in due course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u349	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u350	Thank you. I would like to explain the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, which speaks of the need to provide funds for the construction of NUK 2. Indeed, we have read various statements in the media about the fate of the institution's construction of national importance. At that time, when the law on the guarantee for the construction of NUK was introduced, the Government replied that it would implement the investment in the budget and that it would provide the need for construction, namely finance, with direct budgetary resources. And if this plan is to be implemented, however, it is necessary to provide funds in the budget; and we propose that it be made available at the level of EUR million. At the same time, I would like to express my support for the amendments, which speak of another investment in higher education, which is the Medical Faculty in Maribor. I have already warned in the discussion on the working body that it will not be possible here to blame the municipality of Maribor that it has not prepared everything that needs to be prepared for construction, because the City Council has adopted spatial implementing acts. It was also said that the land was secured, so that it did not, the city’s congregation gave up the land and also provided for alternative dwellings. What is missing, however, should also be provided with funds from the state budget and thus made a second part of the way that, at the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine, the National Assembly has not last agreed. The local community, not to say regional, also showed by the means necessary to enable the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor to start working. You can't shake the feeling that some people are enjoying themselves, with the wrong information, trying to stall or move the building of a medical university into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In view of the fact that several proposals have been made for the redeployment of funds from the Ministry of Defence, I am obliged to explain briefly. One point that has already been highlighted in the debate today is that an area of international cooperation is highly exposed to the amendment. International cooperation is very important for working in the context of the defence system and thus the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, we have our representatives in different countries either in a bilateral area or in a multilateral area. In the year preceding the Presidency of the European Union, the adoption of amendments, even to the extent proposed, would have been inappropriate if all amendments had been adopted; or if the essential funds had been redistributed, we should have significantly restricted this area of work, which would, of course, have threatened our successful work in many ways, so I anticipate a successful work in terms of the presidency in 2008. The area I want to touch is the modernisation of Slovenian military units and the proposal for redeployment. The objective of the forces already adopted in 2004 and this year is also to establish the capacity of battalions for radiological, biological, chemical defence. The battalion should be in line with the objectives of the force - and we are confident that we will also be able to achieve this realization by 2009 - to have the capacity to operate even in the most difficult circumstances. I would also like to point out that the individual units of this battalion have been deployed into the NATO reaction forces for almost a few years and are virtually ready all the time if certain elements occur when these units are activated. The time to activate is 15 days, no matter where the accident or the need to engage such a unit occurs. I would like to point out that, in this context, one of the key areas we intend to acquire is the area of the mobile radiological laboratory, as well as some other areas. Taking into account the fact that the unit is preparing and training for tasks under the most difficult conditions, I can say that before a recent part of the unit has been trained in Slovakia in the use of chemical warfare poisons in virtually real circumstances, that if we want to have it operationally, if we want to use it, use it in the sense that, if there is an accident, there is a need to, after all, come anywhere, no one is immune before the accident. Capacity can also be used for civil purposes and I think that this would be a poor move in terms of achieving capacity and in terms of the utility of the unit itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bajuk, did you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u354	Thank you very much. I would like to say about the amendment, as regards the additional funds or proposals for additional funds for the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. It is clear that the Government supports this project as such, that we are fully determined to do so as soon as possible. The funds are provided to the extent that our best estimate is required in the current time frame. But we understand that it is possible for this to happen faster. The use of European funds is also envisaged. It is necessary to set things in such a way that it is in fact in accordance with the rules to be followed in order for this to happen in any way. However, if it really turns out that the funds currently foreseen in the budget would not be sufficient, but I will propose myself to the Government, and I am confident that I will also be successful in this, redistributing the resources so that what is proposed here today will also be actually available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u355	Thank you very much. [[Back-up advertising.]] Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u356	Procedurally. President, I would very much like you to remind the Minister of Finance of what he just said. Mr Finance Minister said that while we are adopting the budget and the budget must, in accordance with the legislation, ensure that when the budget is adopted, the amount of resources that we know, according to the best information, what the budget should be. To say here in front of the Slovenian public, at 10:10 p.m., that the minister rejects the amendment, but he will ensure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u357	Mr. Squeakle, is this a procedural question or a controversy?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u358	Procedural question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u359	I think it's a controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u360	It's not a controversy. Please inform the Minister of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the adoption of the budget and the Public Finance Act. The Minister of Finance cannot claim before the Slovenian public that the will of the legislative body is of no importance that he, as Minister of Finance without the balance of the budget - I listened very carefully to him, if I said, the budget rebalance, would still understand. No, he said, with transfers based on government authority. I'm sorry! Today, with the 2007 budget changes, we are setting the level of spending. And if we know today that it is possible to accelerate the dynamics, that it is possible to ensure greater spending in 2007, then the Government must support today's amendment, not say, Members of the coalition, forget it, we will not support it, but we will do it as the Government. This is completely contrary to the rules of the Public Finance Act. Therefore, please, Presidents, we accept the budget, we do not accept something just like that, the rights of spending that the Government leaves behind as dearly as they are. If the Government finds out today on the basis of information, on the basis of an amendment designed to accelerate, then gentlemen, at least support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I thought it was a controversy, not a procedural question. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the next chapter, this is user 3311 - Ministry of Education and Sport. Here we have three subroutines and three amendments. Who wants to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u362	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm really surprised when I read the explanations for these amendments where money is taken. If we mentioned earlier that EUR 2 million 700 000 has been taken in the network or in the case of transfers to socially disadvantaged people, these amendments take place in sports programmes in children with special needs. I can't believe it. The most vulnerable groups are taken completely without any feeling. And what do we do with these amendments? We are saving the default to our colleague Sušnik in Vranska to build a sports hall at the primary school. It's a substandard. The Sports Hall is a super standard at the expense of children with special needs. A million euros to get rid of these gyms. Really, I have no comment on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u363	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore. That is why I am concluding the debate on this set. And we go to user 3511 - Ministry of Culture. Here we have three subroutines and four amendments. Anybody want a word? Check-in is on. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u364	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yesterday, Ljubljana's Mayor Danica Simšič concluded the mayorship in the most beautiful way possible by opening a replica of the most beautiful Baroque Rob monument in front of the Magistrate. But this is Ljubljana's jurisdiction. However, the State has taken care of 42 monuments of State importance by special law. Interestingly, by means of a rebalancing, it has reduced this item, although in explanation it notes that these monuments are of exceptional importance, but in very poor condition. Therefore, such a finding is not comprehensible if, at the same time as the rebalancing, it reduces this item. Social Democrats believe that this item for 42 cultural state monuments needs to be increased, so we have tabled these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u366	Thank you very much. So the funds provided by the Ministry, i.e. the Government for monuments owned by the Republic of Slovenia in 2007, are, of course, increasing. It is also particularly about increasing in particular by raising funds from the so-called Structural Funds, where the Ministry of Culture is very successful in doing so and these funds are very much in value. So the funds on this item are essentially increasing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments and the specific part of the draft amending budget will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, following the end of this agenda item. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Who wants a word? I conclude the debate on the development programme plan. We will decide on the plan of the development programmes in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote after the end of this agenda item. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for amending the budget. Before interrupting this item on the agenda, I ask, does anyone else want a word on the draft amending the budget in its entirety? I note that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am concluding the debate on the draft amending the budget as a whole. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the draft amending budget today in the framework of the vote, after five minutes, which is today at 22.35. Who is opposed to this proposal? Nobody. This proposal is therefore in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u368	Dear Members and Members! Please take your seats so we can continue the meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of the 5th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will guide on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16.11.2006. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 8. I'm asking you to sign up. The first is an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[You're giving up.]] Mr Anton Rop, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have prepared an amendment to Article 8 in the LDS. We are confident and believe that this amendment means that the proposed funding system for municipalities, as proposed, will be significantly improved. They have, of course, improved in this way, that this proposal will actually mean improving the financing of those municipalities that are the least needed development funds, as well as those municipalities that are regional and urban development centres in Slovenia. We are confident that, as is now the case with the law, a substantial reduction in the volume of development funds for some centres, and especially for Ljubljana, such a proposal will practically halve investment funds and reduce the volume of these funds by as much as 35 billion. Therefore, we propose that this amendment, with which you do not make the financial situation of the other municipalities any worse, support development in those municipalities which are necessary, which represent urban centres and are important for the development of regions, landscapes and cities as well. I would like to stress in particular that with such proposed funding for municipalities you are also actually routed to finance future landscapes and to shape other landscapes. We believe that if this Law on Community Financing is adopted and adopted in such a form that our amendments are not adopted, the proposal, at least as we have heard today, is likely to be unacceptable for the financing of the landscapes for the LDS Club. It will also be unacceptable to design such landscapes and I think that these would be very bad consequences for regional development in Slovenia. So I appeal to all of you to support this amendment, which in no way undermines the position of anyone. To the extent that this amendment is also supported by you, we will also support the amendment tabled by the coalition, because it is, in our view, meaningful; so I propose that you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u371	Thank you for your word. We will not support the proposed amendment in the New Slovenia Group. If we support or accept the proposed amendment, then it means that we have violated its concept and are returning to the law that is now in force. The purpose of the proposed new law was, as we have already heard many times today, that more equitable funding will be allocated to municipalities or all municipalities in Slovenia. Certainly and we agree with the New Slovenia Group that this law brings greater solidarity, as it has been heard, with regard to financial resources for the development of an individual municipality; and this brings this new law. And we certainly cannot support this amendment. Somehow, as I said before, we understand some of those who want those municipalities that have been self-financing in the past to have too much funding to say that such a form of funding continues into the future. And with the new law we certainly allow a more even and fairer distribution of funds for 210 municipalities in Slovenia. Therefore, we will not support the proposed amendment in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u372	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 66 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SLS and DeSUS to Article 8. Discussion on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. There's no sign-in. We're moving on to decision-making. I'd like you to put your hand up if you press and sign up. You held your hand up twice, but you didn't press it. I've been watching. Commence application. I'm looking sharp. Mr. Milan Squeakl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u373	Mr Vice-President, I had to raise my hand, because otherwise we would not have offered the Group of Members, but of course I wanted to do it on my behalf. Now tell me if I raise my left hand when I want to in my own name, and on my right when I want to in the name of the Group of Members. I won't support the amendment. I will not support the amendment, because when you rejected the amendment of our Group of Members, in our view, this amendment has become completely meaningless and unnecessary, and in particular does not solve what is most crucial. And it is that you would not finance other congregations by burdening the work of the congregations by the way you chose in the ruling coalition. I must say that I am disappointed that today we will end the second reading of this Law on the Financing of the Communities, everything we do around the budget, and that we are doing it a few days after the second round of local elections. To the newly elected mayors, the newly elected municipal council, by what we will do today, we give only one option - a lot of additional debt and new, especially real resources, will be the only real resources to ensure that municipalities can develop in Slovenia. We leave everything else to the Minister of Finance. And I regret that the Minister for Local Self-Government has resigned. I'm going to oppose the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u374	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I note that from 63 Members and Members voted 48 to 9. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 14 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. Of the 67 Members and Members present, 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 44. We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members voted for 18 and against 44. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill.I find that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 8 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Yeah. Please. The amendment is ready. Excuse me? I propose that we proceed after the end of today's last item with the continuation of this amendment. Do you agree? Yeah. I'm breaking up with that point. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the excise law. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 22. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members voted for 20 and 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading and we are therefore moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members voted 45 and 18 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 22. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the general part of the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u375	My procedural question is related to what the President, although in the previous part of the day was Vice-President Pache, did not do before deciding on such a general work, in order to get an appropriate response from the Legislative and Legal Service to the question raised. I therefore propose that, once we have voted on the amendments in the specific part of the budget, on the development programme plan, if any amendments were to be made, whether we get the right opinion or, in the editorial opinion, we ensure that the revenues and expenditure of the state budget are shown in substance. Indeed, at the moment, the general part of the budget itself has been properly adopted, since the Law on the Financing of the Communities has not yet been adopted. The Law on the Financing of the Communities has not yet been adopted; it is only in a second reading. However, when the Law on the Financing of Communities is adopted in the third reading, the problem of inadequate expression, at the very least, will be exposed to the gross revenue principle of the State budget, which is the residual source of the state budget for municipalities, with a difference of approximately EUR 880 million. That is why I now predict that in the Group of Members we will use all the options to take account of what the Public Finance Act says, which is a gross statement of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. We can't afford it, like the minister said before: "No harm if you don't support an amendment, I'll take care of it." We cannot allow the Minister of Finance to go beyond budget implementation - and the implementation of the budget is what we accept in this National Assembly - to give 800, or 700, or 950, or maybe only 600 million euros to the municipalities. He will give only as many millions of euros to the municipalities as will be recorded in the expenditure of the state budget as the right of expenditure to be allocated by the Minister to the municipalities by law. Everything else is charlatanism, everything else is the netting of statements and contrary to the principles of the Public Finance Act and of course all constitutional provisions on the subject. Therefore, if this procedural warning is to be noted, we will not then be surprised how it will be when we do the appropriate draftings of the State budget in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, what do you want, please? There is no debate on this subject. I can't give you my word. We are moving on to a decision on amendments to the budgetary user. First, user 1214 - Ombudsman. The amendment has been amended, it has been corrected, so we are voting. Sorry, I didn't see you. Just the first time and the last time anyone called me with a whistle. Here you are, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u377	Thank you so much for saying that. If you'll excuse me, I've said more or less at the time of the amendment, and it's important to say more or less at the time of this amendment. Another important fact that I received a few minutes ago is the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to my parliamentary initiative, which I gave on the day of the child in October. You will not believe this, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sees this project as one of the priorities in the functioning of its Government, which is why it is so much more unacceptable to me - and I therefore appeal to you, Mr. Secretary-General - that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry in explanation, why it does not support this amendment, refers to the fact that the Ombudsman as a non-governmental budgetary user has not foreseen or proposed a special sub-programme called the Office of Child Defenders. This is not a project of the Ombudsman, but should be a project of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the coalition partner has committed to the establishment of an independent Office of Child Defenders within the framework of a coalition contract and the coalition contract should be a fundamental document for coalition parties, so called the "Small Constitution", if you wish. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this opinion, which I mentioned earlier, is aware that child care is so much more important because children are so powerless when it comes to the question of violating their rights. Children’s rights are unfortunately too often under the rights of other adults. When, in the very explanation of this amendment, I actually spoke long and wide about what children in our country need, because in this area Slovenia is a few steps behind the other European countries. It is so much more unacceptable for me that the Government, in the context of the 2007 budget rebalancing, allocates resources to help and protect prisoners, is a completely new sub-programme, while the Government does not support child protection funds. It is so much more important to me because Mr Ziherl says that it is more important for him than for children to regulate forest roads in private forests. And because my colleague Kucler's always adverting when it comes to the question of the Church, but when it comes to the issue of child protection, I'm afraid not. With this I am pressing, my respectable colleagues and colleagues, also on your morale to support this amendment. We will definitely support it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. In a personal name? Please. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u379	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will, of course, support the amendment of my colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš. As I said in my own explanation of the amendment, in 1989 the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted and Slovenia adopted, at which point Slovenia committed itself to this convention, as long as you will take a good look at it, that the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, not as part of the Ombudsman, but as a special institution of the Ombudsman. After 15 years, we don't have this institute today. There have always been a variety of excuses, either the Ombudsman has not proposed or the Ombudsman has not done this or that, but most of the time it was that no Government wanted to provide funds for such a Ombudsman. And words like "why would they pay a bureaucrat to protect children's rights" seem very low, especially to children. If whoever said that has their own children. You know, there's never enough bureaucrats and guardians when it comes to children, children need to be protected and protected. Today, with this amendment in the Slovenian National Party, we devote this money. And it's up to you to write in your coalition contract that you'll do it, to actually do it. If you don't do it, you're lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Well, there won't be too much hot blood, I'd like to say about the item that takes money to avoid accusing each other of - maintaining and building forest roads. And that has nothing to do with what was heard from both sides. These are assets and you can't take money from this item. Why not, I would suggest that you ask your fellow Member Barovic, who is also the mayor and will be able to explain correctly that you cannot take money here. That's all I want to say, and from this point of view, I can't support it. But if they took it from another item, maybe that'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I propose that you support the amendment in line with the following position of the Prime Minister: "Janša called for a calming of the situation concerning the Roma. Commissioner of the Council..." [[Back-up advertising.]] This is a very serious matter! "The Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights Thomas Hammarberg is today's resettlement..." and so on "marked as unacceptable." The Ombudsman, who first responded to this subject, was attacked. The Ombudsman also speaks about the protection of children. Therefore, to design and add additional resources, we had many discussions whether it is possible to design a new subroutine or not, is the least we can do to protect children in Slovenia. Support the amendment, if not for another, as Mr President of the Government has said. These are the things that connect with each other. If anyone thinks they're not, then I don't know if they live in Slovenia or anywhere else. The amendment is corrected, the explanation is detailed, in substance coordinated with the intention of the Ombudsman, only the resources are not sufficient. And if you were able to give billions of euros for highways, hundreds of millions of euros for this or that increase in salaries and material costs, let us devote another 75,000 euros to the creation of the Office of Child Defender or the operation of the Ombudsman on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Here you go. Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u385	Your Honors are here! I believe that now we have all looked at the contents of the amendment in broad and medium terms, but I also believe that there has been a misunderstanding around the part of the amendment that shows the source of the funds. It was just seen from one of the explanations given by Members who spoke why they would not support it. It is not true that this amendment would interfere with the construction and reconstruction of forest roads, it is a second budget item. We have several budget lines in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposer, the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, shall take the financial resources necessary for the establishment of this Office from budget item 4178. This is the repair of forest roads in private forests. Ladies and gentlemen, in private forests. We do not interfere in municipal forests, we do not interfere with forests in other structures. Furthermore, we would like to draw attention to another of the irregularities cited by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its response to the fact that the financial resources provided for in the Office of the Ombudsman are for this purpose. That's not true for a while. That's a little bit of a lie the Ministry of Finance said. I sincerely hope not you, Secretary of State, but that this came from somewhere else. On the other hand, there is a third matter that has been misrepresented or interpreted during today’s treatment. On 2 October this year, a question was asked by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this subject. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia replied that this was one of the priorities. Today, it is an option for this government priority to plague the National Assembly, we propose that you support the amendment of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u386	Thank you very much. We're voting. From 68 Members and Members voted 25 to 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I presume that you all have before you a list of all the amendments tabled and proposed. I would therefore ask you, as is the case before the vote, to see whether the orange light on the right, that my first call is for the sending group and for the others for the individuals. Please, if you want us to be expedient in this work force, if you'll follow me. Thank you. We are moving to the user of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, one amendment. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted for 21 against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to user 1611 - Ministry of Finance. Here we have the subroutine, first, and one amendment. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Milan Squeakl, please, on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u387	The amendment is actually intended to discuss and justify what is likely to happen in 2007, 2008. Of course, depending on how the discussion on the Law on Community Financing will be concluded, we may have some resources that the municipalities will receive, and then in 2007, 2008 we will have considerable problems with the provision of tax resources, including decommissioned tax resources, and therefore we propose that we increase the funding of 10 million euros for the creation of supplementary funds to the municipalities. Above all, the sources of this are the reduction in spending on items which, of course, we estimate that, if the money was provided to the municipalities, it would be much more rational than giving money for things such as buying ammunition. I suggest you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u388	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to another subroutine where there's only one amendment. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on. User, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, first subroutine, two amendments. We vote, we decide on the first amendment. Who wants a word? Check-in is on. On behalf of the Group of Members, I repeat. Mr. Rudolf Moge. You're giving up. Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u389	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! As a result of this year's difficulties in resolving the President of the Republic of Tom Križnar from the Sudanese prisons, we have proposed the creation of a special fund to help our citizens abroad who are in difficulties. This idea was announced by Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel a few years ago when Croatian police officers arrested Joško Joras and when we discussed the budget at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting last month, we also discussed this topic and this idea was supported by Minister Dimitrij Rupel. And when Mr Minister supported this idea in this substantive debate, we decided in the Social Democrats' Group of Members to propose the creation of a special fund to help our citizens abroad. And so, for example, we could easily provide him with the means to rescue him or return him to his homeland. I therefore propose that you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u390	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue, the user of the Ministry of Economy, the first subroutine has two amendments. We decide on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the amendment of the second subroutine, this is the Mine Closure Program. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on amendments to the third sub-programme, the first amendment of the third sub-programme, which is the Competitiveness Enhancement Programme. We decide on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Milan Squeakl, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u391	It is known that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, was a major critic of foreign investment promotion programmes, especially the investment promotion programme in Revoz. Fortunately, my colleague on the left prepared everything for this program to come to light before the new government came to light. And this is one of the programmes that provide jobs, which also provide tax resources. We do not propose anything else - the opposition Members this time - but to provide EUR 700 000 to enable Mr Janez Janša himself to make a foreign investment in the mandate of this Government, in the same way as it did in the previous government's mandate. The money currently allocated to these items is sufficient for the pencil and paper alone to rent the business premises of this so-called Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investment. They do not even have the money to drive to Paris, such data are from the implementation of the budget and thus show data according to the draft budget. With the creation of an additional EUR 700 000, the Government of Mr Janez Janša could begin to prepare a similar project at least in the last year of its mandate, such as the Revoz X-44 project. Support the amendment, we will!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u392	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted for 20, up to 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I'm moving on to a decision on the third amendment. The vote is under way. 59 Members and Members voted for 20 and 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the fourth sub-programme - this is the restructuring of companies. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. On behalf of the Group of Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u393	In the discussion at the competent home body, it was found that, by means of this mandate, they could provide instead of costs for soldiers in Iraq, the opening of another factory, such as the Iskraemeco factory in Kuwait. Well, it wasn't exactly the Iskraemeco factory, but it's less important now. While it is important that the Minister of Economy would give money to any other company in difficulty, it does not have sufficient resources in the state budget. We propose to reduce the cost of military international cooperation, read "Cooperation in Iraq" and increase the cost of 500 000 aid to firms in difficulty. However, in the entire debate, both on the Committee on Finance and on the Commission on Budgetary Control and Public Finance Control, we were unable to determine whether the Minister of Economy would be able to do so because, of course, the Minister of Finance could not reply whether he had already obtained the proper consent of the European Commission. I have a feeling that the government simply does not want to help businesses in difficulty because of these or those internal and external causes. The problem arises when it is necessary to open a factory in a distant place, with what exotic visit. Support the amendment so that the government can also do something to help businesses in difficulty.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u394	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. 63 Members and Members voted 21 and 42 against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the fifth sub-programme to promote the development of a small economy. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We continue, user of the Ministry of Transport. We have one amendment to one subroutine. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Milan Squeakl on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u395	I propose that this amendment be supported by those Members who have made a mistake because it is a matter of ensuring that the second track of the Divača-Koper railway link is built. This amendment makes it possible for the Government not to have to come up with a rebalance in 2007, because it will, with the amendment, provide real resources to the Railway Agency. The government did not do so, so it came to the National Assembly for a guarantee of 100 billion tolars. You can't build with the second track. The Ministry of Finance itself notes this, and the Minister of Labour has already announced the likely changes in these items. If, of course, you only want the so-called Popovic variant, i.e. Koper-Trieste and not the second track of Divac-Koper, then I understand your rejection of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u396	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Joseph Bajc. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Lucky Friend, I hope you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u397	Thank you very much. This amendment also makes sense because the Government does not demonstrate any seriousness in that project, which is included in the first 30 priority projects, to begin with, which is also reflected in the current budget, which has only an open item on this item. And yet we will return EUR 5 million to Europe because we do not want to start this project since 2004, when we have these funds approved and we have already doubled the use. Once again, the Ministry of Transport’s slump appears when it is only in the guarantee law that all the solutions in this area are foreseen. Railways will complete the business year with 60 billion losses on current loans, long-term and short-term, and, of course, 4 billion current losses this year. Of these 99 billion won't get a tolar, because it all goes to the Railway Agency on Kopitarovo in Maribor. And Holding Slovenian Railways will charge you with an additional 3 billion 800 in the following year for the use it will have to pay. What was found by the Court of Auditors is the fault of the Government and the Ministry, which ignores this item and, of course, this resort, this is the railway. I made such an amendment myself when I saw LDS file it, it doesn't make sense to put it twice. Therefore, in fact, I fully support good intentions and be grateful that you are blind to see what you are doing, that someone shows you what to do. And not just looking at the item, down here, the government rejects, the mother's working body does not support. Don't let that lead you. Some just laugh, and my colleagues from the railway will vote against this amendment. And we will still burden roads, which is, of course, a paradox and very, very, very, I will say, an incomprehensible fact that we have a billion credit guarantees on the roads, I speak in euros and we will destroy them with trucks, because the railway will not be able to take them because it is not interoperably capable of transporting such loads. In this item, too, this solution is hidden. So, back up this amendment and you'll help the government, you'll help another transport sector like the railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u398	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Of the 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving forward, the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. 44 amendments. We're moving on to the first amendment of the first subroutine. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 18 votes in favour, 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Third Amendment. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Fourth Amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Fifth Amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 21, against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Sixth Amendment. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Seventh Amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The eighth amendment. We're voting. 63 Members and Members voted for 20, up to 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The ninth amendment. We're voting. 61 Members and Members, 19 votes to 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The tenth amendment. We're voting. Forty-seven Members and Members, 45 votes to one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Eleventh Amendment. We're voting. There were 47 votes in favour and 44 in favour against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The twelfth amendment. We're voting. There were 46 votes in favour, 43 against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thirteenth Amendment. We're voting. Repeat the vote, another time. The vote is under way. I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll resume in 10 minutes at 23.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u399	We are moving on to re-decision, and this is the third time, the 13th amendment. Mr. Sasha Peca, on behalf of the delegation? Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u400	Your Honors are here! A number of amendments today reflected the state of spirit in this National Assembly. In short, we see that all the amendments take place on the same hoof, about 20 votes in favour, 40 against. In the National Party, we estimate that such a way of working as you do in the context of ruling parties, where you do not monitor content, but exclusively authorship, does not mean anything but a setback in the field of public finances work. And of course we do not want to participate in this way of working at least by the Member and Members of the National Party, so we are predicting obstruction for this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group has announced obstruction at this point. We're moving to the vote, third time, on the 13th amendment. We're voting. 57 Members and Members voted for 45, against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the 14th Amendment. We're voting. There were 53 votes in favour and 46 against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 15. We're voting. There were 52 votes in favour and 43 in favour against 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The 16th Amendment. We're voting. There were 51 votes in favour and 43 in favour against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Seventeenth Amendment. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Eighteenth Amendment. Excuse me? An application shall be made on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Milan Squeakl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u402	Thank you very much. I'll speak for myself because you gave me that, so I'll use less than two minutes. Look, I've been for all the roads that can only be built from the state budget, especially for the road Šostjanj-Vávodnje. With the anti-group fence in Lokovica, however, I am asked whether this is now the standard in Slovenia. Now I don't know if you know Lokovica. This is one place on the other side of the hill near Šostanje, between Šmartni ob Paka and towards Velenje and then right towards Šentil and some places that are now more famous in Slovenia. The anti-group fence in Lokovica, if confirmed, will become a standard in Slovenia. I understand Mr Drago Koren, but I don't know, let's just think about whether there is a way of deciding in the state budget, as follows from these amendments, where not every one of them is setting itself up, but, in fact, every single one of them is introducing a different standard, so of course I have a problem myself. I would like to support the amendment, which would solve the issue of the third development axis more quickly and more importantly, I myself supported the amendment, with which would be the most serious problem, which would also reduce traffic through Lokovico, which is the Velenje-Arja road of the village. You didn't do it, but now you're saying, but in Lukovica it needs a super standard. Let us consider what we are taking today, 10 to midnight, November 16th, so that no one will get a headache when we build anti-group heads on state roads as is now envisioned in Lokovica. Mr. Koren, I suggest you withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u403	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. 55 Members and Members voted 41 and 11 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 19. We're voting. I'm sorry, one more time. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members voted, 43 and 4 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. 20th Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members voted, 43 and 4 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The 21st Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. The vote was 45. We're re-voting. Another time. We're voting. The vote is under way. 48 Members and Members voted, 43 and 2 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 22. We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members voted, 43 and 3 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 23. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Login in your own name. Mr. Bojan Homan. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u404	I thought Mr. Homan might explain it, but let me help him. It's an amendment to Kranj, to Hotemage-Britoff. Of course, I suppose that the explanation still holds, and because this explanation is mainly related to ensuring that land is redeemed, that even in time it is possible to ensure that the number of victims in this section, especially children, is reduced, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u405	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to amendment number 24. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment number 25. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment number 26. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment number 27. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 28. We're voting. There were 50 votes in favour and 45 against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 29. We're voting. 52 Members and Members voted for 45, against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 30. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 46, for 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 31. We're voting. There were 47 votes in favour and 43 against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 32. We're voting. There were 52 votes in favour and 44 in favour against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 33. We're voting. 52 Members and Members voted for 45, against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 34. We're voting. There were 51 votes in favour, 45 against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 35. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 36. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 37. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 38. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 39. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment number 40. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] Amendment number 41. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment number 42. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment number 43. The application shall be made on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u406	This is the last amendment I believe you will support. In one principle only, and this is the principle of the proposer. I would like if of the seven other applicants who wish to explain their word, who of them explains the difference between the Velenje-Arje road of the village and the regulation of the state road through Mengeš. Both roads are on important corridors, which are side corridors, not the most important corridors, but on both roads we have traffic problems. The government, the mother's working body and the coalition support one, but not the other. The characteristic of the road policy that you are currently implementing by voting in this National Assembly is that you have made about 30 mini projects, you have given everyone 40 to 110, it is even EUR 208 thousand to get something done there. However, in order to solve the major problems of the lack of access by the biggest Slovenian exporters to the main motorway corridors, there is no reluctance, no money, no substantive assessment of the Government, whether this would be possible, meaningful or otherwise. It's a new policy. We share citizens and their exposure to road transport, depending on the positional status - opposition Member in the National Assembly. I'm going to stand up to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u408	Thank you very much. I will not have any problems with this amendment, because I have not supported any so far, because I believe that these amendments reflect some unfair, unworthy policy. After these amendments, projects that do not even have ideal projects are projects for implementation. The Road Directorate is the one that has a credible approach to these issues on the basis of the situation. And we're dealing with some kind of unorthodox policy of walking into this profession with an entry that's not very nice. I have simply never supported such entry and such moves, nor have I supported them in the adoption of the budget this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Mr. Homan. No, no, no. Mr. Franz Capuder. Mr. Christian Janc. No, no, no. Mr. Aloys Sok. Please, when you look at the plasma as it is called, and if you do not participate in the debate, give us a sign that we will not call you and name you. Thank you. We're moving on to a decision on the 43rd Amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. 57 Members and Members voted 45 and 6 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Amendment number 44. We're voting. The vote is under way. 55 Members and Members voted, 44 and 3 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue with the Ministry of Environment and Space. Subprogramme one, one amendment. On behalf of the Group of Members, applications shall be made. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u410	I would like to say to this amendment that I have been in the National Assembly in recent weeks just a few consultations on the subject of energy, promotion and efficient use and renewable resources, that a number of observers from the academic energy community have warned us, Members - the two we have been there, I must admit, or the one I have been there, unfortunately - that the budget does not take into account precisely this aspect of energy supply, that these resources are being reduced. We have prepared this amendment before these discussions. In fact, it is very minor and really only indicates that the government and the state are not supposed to reduce these resources and resources. And I propose something that you don't think is possible for the coalition to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u411	Thank you very much. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted for 19, against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the 2nd sub-programme and the amendment of the LDS Group. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour of 17 and 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to the 2nd subroutine, control and control of radiation. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 15, against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The following amendment to the 4th sub-programme: Planning, water protection and water management, 1st amendment of the parliamentary groups. We're voting. There were 55 votes in favour and 49 against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to the 2nd Amendment to this subroutine. We're voting. There were 54 votes in favour and 44 in favour against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to the third amendment to this subroutine. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to the amendment of the fifth sub-programme Regulatory framework, general administration and design. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sixth sub-programme of Promoting Housing Building, which is one amendment. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. User Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, first subprogramme, en amendment. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. User Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. First subroutine, first amendment. On behalf of the parliamentary group - application. Mr. Milan Squeakl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u412	I call on Members of the ruling coalition who have previously managed to spend three times that much money on the water fund to regulate individual water stories to support an amendment that will provide us with additional funds for a third of the money to develop a long-term water supply strategy. It is simply that you will not have to resolve such a partial solution in the coming years if a long-term water supply strategy is to be developed. The rejection of this amendment will be understood: it is important that there is water in my municipality, but if Slovenia is supplied with water in the long term, it is not important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u413	We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Second amendment to this subroutine. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 17, for 42. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Amendment of the second subroutine. We're voting. There are 63 Members present, for 17, for 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] Let's move on. Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, First Subprogramme, First Amendment. Application for a member group. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u414	Thank you. So far, or most of the amendments that you have just carefully voted have dealt with your selfish interests, in short, you have taken care of your kindergartens. If you feel that it is possible to bring Slovenia to become a beacon of this world, then you can direct yourself and your interests to others from your own corruption. And this user, where there are some amendments in the area of opening up labour market support and creating new working conditions, may be a test for your unselfish conduct. Therefore, I call on you to look at Slovenians and Slovenes on your own alongside me and us, who will of course support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u415	Thank you very much. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted in favour, 20 and 42 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Second amendment to this subroutine. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted, 19 and 44 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the second subroutine and the first amendment, or the only amendment. On behalf of the Group of Members, applications shall be made. Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u416	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! If we, in the Social Democracy and Liberal Democracy of Slovenia had announced obstruction, if we had rejected all the opposition amendments, then today you would not have been able to accept the balance of this budget, nor would we have been able to accept all of these amendments that you have voted for, because we have allowed it in the opposition. Just so you know. I guess you know, I just said it out loud. This amendment, however, touches on the amendment of the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos on the home working committee, and I believe that this will also be adopted next week in plenary session to adopt this law, which, until the end of the day, is a law that you have consecrated to the end, but will be recognised as an environmental disease at least by mesothelis, it will be adopted that this law enters into force as of 2007. That is why we in the Social Democrats Group have also tabled an amendment to the 2007 budget rebalancing to provide funds for the implementation of this law also this year, so that it will not be just a letter on paper. I therefore propose that you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u417	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the third subroutine, social protection of the disabled. We're voting. I would like to say that this amendment has been corrected and corrected because it has been noted since the beginning that it has not been properly tabled. From 61 Members and Members present, there were 17 votes in favour, up to 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the first amendment of the fourth subroutine, social protection of the old. We're voting. There are 57 present, in favour of 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the second amendment of this subroutine. On behalf of the Group of Members, applications shall be made. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u418	Thank you for your word. I assume that the vote on our amendment will be significantly easier for both coalition Members and Members if they vote on the amendment that they are taking on the socially disadvantaged, I think it will increase the quota and vote on the amendment that takes on Darsu, who has been one of the easiest means to take and commit to others today. This is how I expect you to support the amendment we tabled on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for the Home Network Programme for the Elderly, and this may solve perhaps one problem in a much more pleasant way than when we take on transfers for the socially disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u419	We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on. I also note that the amendment under the number 3 of this sub-programme has been withdrawn. We continue, user of the Ministry of Health. First subroutine, first subroutine amendment, investment in hospitals. We're voting. There are 56 present, 16 votes against 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the 1st amendment to prevent addiction. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 22 in favour against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment number two to this subroutine. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue with the amendment, the secondary and the interns. An application shall be made on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u420	Thank you for your word. The Medical Service Act and the Health Activity Act clearly state that it is the obligation of the budget to provide funding for trainees and secondary staff. Today, with the amendment, we are trying to restore this means of ensuring the implementation of the traineeship and secondary health sector by means of a proposal for amending the budget. I've been trying to point that out since the amendment was explained. Unfortunately, there wasn't enough time. I would therefore appeal once again to MPs and Members that the obligation we are transferring to the health treasury means that the health treasury will definitely reduce the rights of patients and patients in the Republic of Slovenia by 2.7 billion. The obligation thus far - and if we reject this amendment, we will definitely transfer the State budget obligation to the health insurance register and thus reduce the rights of the Slovenians and Slovenians, who are paying contributions to the health treasury. In this way, healthcare stores will suffer and in this way we will not be able to shorten waiting species as quickly as we can, and we will not be able to introduce new technologies, new medicines in a faster way and not meet the needs of all new health knowledge. We would also like to draw your attention again to the fact that the Government, as an argument, offers us that, of course, the effect will be eliminated due to the reduction of the tax on paid wages. If you recalculate, the numbers are substantially different. Nor does the government or the ministry say exactly how much of the 2.7 billion that we are transferring to the health treasury as an obligation that has not been there to date is a compensation for the reduction of the tax on paid salaries. We have the opportunity to vote today not to follow this and to maintain the legal obligation, so the Medical Service Act states that there is a budget obligation for the implementation of the traineeship and second rate for healthcare professionals and doctors. If we vote against this amendment, we will also break the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u421	Thank you very much. Report in your own name. Mr. Milan Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u422	Today, Mr Minister said that the letter to the President of the Management Board of the Health Insurance Office, asking us to first support the amendment as designed and not to support tomorrow's Law on the Enforcement of Budgets is an illegal solution, that the costs of trainees and secondarys are now the obligation of a health insurance company. This letter was marked by the minister as worthless paper. He said nothing to worry about. I'll make sure there's no problem. 2.7 billion is a lot of money for health care. For 2.7 billion in 2005 in Maribor we made 667 chronographies, in the Clinical Center 157, in Maribor 290 stents, in the Clinical Center through invasive cardiology of 520 cases. For 400 million, 3382 operations were conducted in the dark, 600 orthopaedic operations were carried out in 450 million, and 4,800 magnetic resonance investigations were carried out in 312 million. 2.7 billion is a question of life and death in a health treasury for a few thousand people. Support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u423	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. 59 Members and Members voted 18 and 39 against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on. User of the Ministry of Public Administration - management of personnel matters, amendment. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted against 15 and 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Second sub-programme - building and functioning of central information infrastructure and telecommunications technology, amendment. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted in favour of 14 and 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. User of the Ministry of Higher Education Science and Technology. First subroutine, first amendment. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted against 17 and 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Second amendment. We're voting. 63 Members and Members voted in favour, 20 and 43 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Second sub-programme - Programmes to promote technological development of the economy, amendment. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted 17 and 42 against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Third sub-programme - amendment to higher education. First amendment. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted 19 and 42 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the 2nd Amendment. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u424	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me try to get your attention again in these night hours, at least for those who don't sleep. We tabled these amendments for the following reasons. First of all, for the construction of medicine in Maribor, all the inhabitants of northeastern Slovenia were symbolically contributing 1 euro. Secondly, the Municipality of Maribor donated land worth over 200 million to the University of Maribor for the construction of the Faculty of Medicine with the Decree on the Wall Plan. Thirdly, Mr Minister himself, a member of New Slovenia, signed a document Identifying the investment project and thus guaranteed that he would provide 246 million tolars in funding dynamics for 2007 for project and technical documentation and other preparatory works. There is now nothing in this item in the state budget, but there is on another item, where there is no link to this, provided, between the three universities divided by 270 million tolars or 90, which means that this project cannot be initiated at all. In the meantime, the dynamics of drawing up these funds, in order to produce the project documentation from November 2006 to August 2007, would therefore need this money. All the mayoral candidates in the second round, which was largely supported by the whole position, ensured that those who supported them were in favour of supporting the construction of the Medical Faculty in Maribor. According to the document signed, the promises made are expected from all people in Slovenia, with the lack of doctors, that we will try to support such an amendment in the National Assembly, because whoever does not support it will report to the public that there is a violation of what has been signed in the National Assembly. And secondly, as far as possible, if this amendment is not supported, it is the first shot in the knee by the mayor's candidate, our colleague Franc Kangler - sorry, the mayor! Franchek, I'm sorry. The first shot to the knee is what he took in the pre-election fight. That is why I would also urge all of you to support such an amendment because of the collegiality, consistency of the ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u425	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich. [[No, no, ……]] Report in your own name. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u426	Thank you. I don't know how much time it will be this morning to say a word or two about the fact that the medical faculty project in Maribor was joint, unanimously supported when we established it, so it would be good to do the program work for the medical faculty, which will educate, educate and design the deficit professions, to add what is needed to build a medical university. The municipality of Maribor has provided with the relevant decrees both free land and regulatory plans, as well as alternative apartments. True, it is not clear that everything has been taken care of, but what the city congregation has imposed has also been carried out, so it would be right to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u427	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u428	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! I will certainly support this amendment, even though it is not a medical university in my place. Today it has been shown that in fact you do not even feel that you are living in Slovenia, and that what is happening at one end certainly affects the other end, that it is not only the roads through the village, but the circles in front of a city, but that we are traveling everywhere. This also applies to health, of course, and it does not know the limits. Mr Bručan is very much in love with his promise, and he has promised about seven times in those two years. Of course, it's always in the bag, and I don't even know why we don't call him Dr. Fig. There's something similar here, too. It's a big mouth, a lot of talking, and then it's nothing. I think it would be very good for you to support this. Maribor has a medical college, but of course it has it scattered all over the city, from, I don't know, technical schools to the hospital. The conditions for students and professors are not good, and if we want to have well-educated staff, which will also bring a little more comfort to better education, then it is worth supporting, and then let us find ourselves, always.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u429	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. No, you're giving up. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u430	Thank you very much. So in the course of this year, a number of letters were addressed by the University of Maribor and, above all, by a medical faculty, to a number of addresses in the Republic of Slovenia in support of the accelerated construction, not only of the medical faculty, but also the contribution to the higher health school. It is therefore surprising today that the Minister is talking about that everything is not yet as ready as it should be, but if so, he will make an effort to provide the funds. A broad map by the dean of the Faculty of Medicine clearly states that a number of works are foreseen for the next year, but for which no funding is provided. This document is also followed by the response of the Ministry of Health, that is, Minister Bručan, who writes that he strongly supports efforts to build a new medical university as soon as possible. Today in Maribor he has studied for the third generation. The dean writes that there are no adequate conditions for this to allow the best of the generations enrolled in medical school to conduct studies in the most quality manner possible. Of course, today we, Members and Members of Parliament, have the opportunity to provide resources for the development of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor so that, given that there is a clear message in Slovenia, the lack of doctors, we can clearly answer this question and provide additional resources for the development of the University of Maribor and, above all, the Faculty of Medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u431	Thank you. Mr. Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u432	The amendment we have drafted simply follows what it has supported without a vote against also the State High Education Committee. There have been several discussions in this regard on various committees, including on the Finance Committee itself, including in this regard the relevant decisions have been adopted. It would therefore be consistent for us to take one last step together in this regard today, to support the amendment that we have drafted in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and to ensure that in Slovenia we can ensure that doctors will also be trained in another medical faculty. I would not explain why we need everything, the fact is that there is a shortage of doctors in Slovenia, the fact is that with all the restrictions created in this profession, we need new people and let these people be educated in Maribor under quality conditions. That's what this amendment guarantees. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u433	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 23, for 36. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment number three. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u434	Thank you very much. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as we have in the elections, we will also support here the amendment of colleague Franz Kangler, who has always advocated that even in that part of Slovenia, which is one of the least developed, some light would shine. To this end, the Head of the University of Ljubljana and the Head of the Medical Faculty, I have written letters on this issue, wrote to the President of the Government of the Republic Janez Janša, wrote to Mr President of the National Assembly, Dr. Francet Tsukjati, who was also one of the fathers of this new medical faculty in Maribor, wrote to a number of other people, and today we were amazed that some people did not even know that they were going to build this university. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, without a vote, adopted a decision requesting the Committee on Finance to find funds within the framework of the amendments of the Committee on Finance in order to bring this matter under the roof. I myself have been present on this committee, as Chairman of the Higher Education Committee, I have informed the Committee, but there has been nothing. The other thing is, which is full of us, but the next thing. This project is linked to the drawing-up of a European project. Until appropriate documentation has been drawn up for this project, we can wipe ourselves under Europe's nose for these funds. I'm also here with a document, a thing that would go, if that were certain, to draw funds from elsewhere. I think that these are such serious things as to show them in the National Assembly, at least where the health of people in Slovenia is concerned, to take them into account. And if you think the unhygienic amendment of the opposition, support at least the amendment of colleague Franz Kangler, and thus prove that the coalition is behind what it has agreed to stand behind its mayoral candidates, otherwise in Maribor it will begin to be said that while they were left, they have arranged everything for us and were interlocutors that the university will move forward, now that the right ones have taken over the command, but we have received a splinter across the head. Also because of this political assessment, I would like to ask you to help our colleague Kangler and also support this project, which is still important and good for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u435	Mr. Franz Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u436	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If we support this decision today, we are particularly helping Minister Juret Zupan, because he signed a pre-investment programme decision last year, together with the University, which undertakes to provide 247 million for the programme that is envisaged under this amendment. In the budget of these funds, the Minister has not provided, so I think that if we accept this amendment, we will in particular save him, which is this decision on the pre-investment programme, where he has committed himself to providing the money, we will also resolve it. But there's another problem. The municipality of Maribor provided land and the Municipality of Maribor donated over 340 million over the value of land to the University of Maribor. This money is intended for the public invitation to tender for architecture. This money is intended to buy nine apartments and this money is intended to obtain a building permit. And we need to get this in 2007 if we want to draw those funds that are planned in 2008 from some other funds. This is absolutely necessary. If we do not ensure this today, then we will not be able to use or draw on these funds that we planned in 2008. There's something else I'd like to point out. This amount is about as much as it was written in that decision, and is half less than the amount recorded by the Liberal Democracy in the previous amendment. But if you would allow me a purely personal opinion, I would say the following. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have worked with you for ten years, I am slowly saying good-bye from this National Assembly and believe me that it would be the best way to show me your agreement in this place, because this is not a Maribor university, this is a Slovenian university based in Maribor, which is of regional importance, and in particular it is very important for the development of Slovenian medicine. That is why I expect, out of loyalty, collegiateness and correctness, especially to this region of Slovenia, to the University of Maribor, to support this amendment along with our parliamentary group. I don't think there's gonna be too much chatter within the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u437	Thank you very much. We're voting. Check-in? Excuse me! You have a procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u438	Thank you very much. Dear President, in light of this letter from Dr Juret Zupan, which we have received, and in the light of what we have said, I propose that you approve, at the initiative of the New Slovenia Group, a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u439	We're done explaining our voice. I'm taking five minutes off. Mr. Squeakle, I'm in charge!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u440	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Mr. Aloys Sok, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u441	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. In the light of the letter sent to us by Minister Jure Zupan, in which he assures that if this investment is to be prepared, more than resources are available to ensure that these funds are also provided by the Minister of Finance, we will not support this amendment in our Group of Members today. But we will do everything we can to ensure that what is written here is actually ensured as much as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u442	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 30. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the fourth amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 40. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Continue, the user is the Ministry of Education and Sport, the first subroutine, the first amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 5. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment number two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Second sub-programme, amendment to primary education. On behalf of the Group of Members. Report. Mr. Milan Squeakl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u443	I fully agree that there is a lot to be done in Slovenian education. And I fully agree with the need to build a sports hall in Vransko Municipality. And it is good that such an amendment has just been passed. However, even more so, I think that a little less money than is intended to build a gym in Vransk should be earmarked to increase to 10% the number of children with regressive diets. It's about school lunches. If you have managed to give 750 000 euros for investment in sport infrastructure in Vransko Municipality, for a multi-purpose sports hall, which I think is good, both for the conduct of sports education activities in primary school and for the recreational and sports activities of citizens and citizens of the municipality, whose characteristics are mainly Mr. Mayor, Mr. Member, then I propose that you also give 581,000 euros for several thousand children, including children from Vransko Municipality, to have a school lunch. Support the amendment! We will see the non-support of the amendment as a great duplicity.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u444	Thank you very much. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted for 17 to 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. 3rd sub-programme and amendment to this sub-programme. Applications on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Milan Squeakl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u445	It's a very similar story. There are students in Vransk. They drive to high school in Celje, Velenje or some also to Postojna, to the secondary forestry school. But everyone doesn't have enough money to transport. If we have paid 750,000 euros for a sports hall in Vransk, let's give another million 300 euros for a few thousand students to have repressed transportation. Everything else, the non-acceptance of this amendment, is, as I said, and I say again, a great duality.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u446	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 16 to 40. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on. User of the Ministry of Culture, sub-programme for the preservation of cultural heritage. We have two amendments. First amendment first. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 17, for 42. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Second amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 16 to 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Come in. Art programs, first amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 16 to 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The next amendment or last amendment; media and audiovisual culture. On behalf of the Group of Members, applications shall be made. Mrs. Majda Shirca, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u447	It is true, Mr Vice-President, that this is the last amendment in this story, where Mr Minister would, if he had as much a clean face as he did, but he felt the red on it, because he is placed in the role of Santa Claus, who divides candy for horses, so that they will run better at certain times and others will stop. And by principle, I'm the authority, so I can share the money. In this last chapter on culture, you have also rejected the amendment of my colleague Terchón because you have already celebrated the Cerje celebration and you no longer need to worry about the monument for which Comrade Terchón was applying additional money. At the same time, the state is building mega parks, Gardalande and even the largest monument in the world called the air museum, which will go beyond the Keops pyramid, and Cerje - a monument of rebellion against the invaders, but not. You have also rejected artistic programs, after the Minister of Culture has reaped a vital part of cultural creation, this is called creative programs. And now you will undoubtedly be the last chapter, the media and audiovisual culture, because the minister has provided a billion tolars to cover the image of power in the public. However, it did not provide the missing 200 million for audiovisual culture, which is due to the European directive, but not to the minister's policy. This concludes this chapter on candy, which, of course, finds open mouths for those who need to be rewarded and closed for public good. Please, if possible, think about this behavior. In my stay in these rooms, there has not been such an arrogant attitude at the time of adoption of the budget, and perhaps the last shift to the positive approval of the key is this taste of repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u448	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 as a whole. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, procedurally. I would like to ask you a motion for a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u449	It will be procedural for me to announce that the Liberal Democracy Club will no longer participate in the discussion and decision on the draft amending the budget of 2007. We will obstruct the continuation of this item on the agenda because the vote on all amendments has shown that it is not an important substance, they are not important citizens; only a Member as a member of the ruling coalition is important, with one exception. At the beginning of the debate, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia said that the draft budget, amending the 2007 budget, was an unrealistic budget. On the income side with higher excise duties, with higher taxes, he takes hundreds of billions and then divides them into inappropriate items. And today you've fixed a lot of items, but you can't give more money for children's lunches, transporting students, and, as we said, you don't want to have doctor's interns doing those activities that the health insurance company is funding, and the state budget should fund their salaries. This is the two-faced operation of the ruling coalition. Not once in the current practice of adopting the budget has it been that no amendment of the opposition has been adopted. That's what happened today. Due to such duality, due to such arrogance of the ruling coalition, after of course we helped bring the debate and decision on the state budget to a close, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia obstructs the meeting. Thank you so much for a lovely evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u450	Thank you very much. By this you have informed me that the LDS Group has announced obstruction at this point. We're moving on. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 as a whole. We're voting. The vote is under way. One more time. Another time. We're re-voting. The vote is under way. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly and we'll resume in 10 minutes at 1.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u451	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Please take your seats. We continue to re-vote on the specific part of the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 as a whole. This is the third time we've voted. I note that there were 51 votes in favour, 43 against 7. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that a specific part of the Proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the 2007 Development Programme Plan of the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u452	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u453	Here you go. It's a check-in.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u454	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have been thinking about whether we should do this now, and we are going to set you free, or whether we are going to do it in the end when the budget is fully adopted, and we have now decided. We're obstructing. We don't want any more cooperation. The reasons are also substantive, and the reasons are also in the dignity that I think the coalition should, if it is already drawing up a budget, if it divides the cake, if it is completely inadvertent in its design of individual solutions, gather so much power that it is able to take this decision for itself. We would not really want to help you with this at half past two in the morning, because it seems to us that the organisation of work in the National Assembly is extremely inappropriate, that what is done with us, Members and Members, I think this time with all of us, is indeed not enough to deserve a proper expression. Thank you very much. I want a successful job if you can do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u455	Thank you. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats has announced an obstruction to this point. We move to a vote on the 2007 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. We'll vote next time. We're voting. Mr. Sok, please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u456	Thank you very much. I propose, President, that we close tonight and proceed tomorrow, because even after ten minutes, we will not be concluding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u457	Thank you very much. However, we have to vote in the Rules of Procedure in 10 minutes, thirdly. That's why we're voting in 10 minutes. That's 1.48.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u458	We continue to make decisions. Please take your seats. This is the third time we've voted. Thank you very much. Please sit down for a little while longer. We're not done yet. Since we've already made up our minds, I'm breaking up with this point. Since we have already decided and voted on the amendments, I ask the representative of the Government or the Minister whether this proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u459	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! On the basis of the conclusions you have adopted on the amendments, the budget is not harmonised and the government will prepare a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-16-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u460	Thank you very much. Therefore, on the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I note that the proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 is not harmonised, so I ask that the Government prepare an amendment today to harmonise the draft amending budget so that by the amendment of the Government, the parent body will be identified at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, today at 9 a.m., in room 212. I am terminating this agenda item and at the same time informing you that the National Assembly will continue tomorrow also with item 5 or with the consideration of the amendment to point 5. I hereby adjourn the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed today at 10 a.m.
