ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Ferry Horvat, Alenka Jeraj from 2.30 p.m. to 5.00 p.m., Anton Kokalj, Milan Petek and Milenko Ziherl. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the initiation of a procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law. In doing so, I would like to inform you that a total discussion period of 4 hours and 40 minutes is foreseen. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed France Tsukati. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will consider under this item, has emerged as a compromise proposal. After an informal meeting between the heads of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly found that the already tabled proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, the first of which was signed by Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, a suitable basis for seeking a compromise proposal, internal discussions began between the proposers of the proposal, the motions for amendments and the leaders of the parliamentary groups, with the cooperation of government representatives and with the assistance of the expert group in the Constitutional Commission on Local Self-Government. Participants met at the consultations on 6 July, 14 September and 17 October 2005 and on 12 January and 9 March this year and sought any acceptable amendment or acceptable starting point of the new Article 143 of the Constitution: First time. The proposal for a law regulating the establishment of provinces throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia should specify the areas, seats and names of the provinces and the national assembly should adopt this law by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. Another time. For delegated tasks from State jurisdiction to the provinces, the State must provide the provinces with the necessary funds. Third time. In the process of establishing the provinces, the participation of the municipalities must be ensured. On the basis of the origins adopted, the section then prepared a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law signed by 72 Members. The proposal, which is more detailed, was tabled on 31 March this year in the Constitutional Audit Procedure and adopted on 12 April this year on the Constitutional Commission. I propose that the National Assembly, after the discussion has been concluded, support the decision to initiate the procedure for this amendment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Commission, Dr Slavko Gabra, to present the report of the Commission. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u4	Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its first emergency meeting on 22.9.2005 and at its third meeting on 12.4.2006, the Constitutional Commission considered a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 12.6.2005 and a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a constitutional law which was tabled by the Group of Members of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 31.3.2006 with the first-signed Franceto Tukjati. The Constitutional Commission has initiated its consideration of the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, as tabled by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dara Lavtijar Bebler, after proposing proposals and proposing informal amendments, representatives of parliamentary groups and the Government and members of the Section of the Constitutional Commission for Local Self-Government have come to informal consultations, which the President has already mentioned here, before the compromise proposal of the Constitution, which was also signed by the President of the National Assembly and addressed this compromise proposal. It summarized the solutions to Article 121 and Article 140 of the original proposal and partially supplemented or amended the proposed Article 143 of the Constitution. For the general debate, the members received a written opinion from the Government and the Council of State supporting this adoption of the compromise proposal. In its opinion, the Council of State also made some comments on Article 143 and drew attention to the alleged irregularity of the proposed decisions with Articles 138 and 153 of the Constitution. Written opinions and oral additional explanations are presented in more detail in the report of the Constitutional Commission and will not be cited here. In the general debate, and this is crucial, the members and members of the Constitutional Commission almost unanimously supported the need to adopt the proposed constitutional amendment, so we propose that the National Assembly also adopt a decision on the basis of Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure to initiate the constitutional audit procedure for a compromise proposal. If I withdraw, the Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly to take a decision on the initiation of the procedure for amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, i.e. for the compromise proposal under item 2, the agenda for the decision to initiate the procedure for amending the same articles proposed by the Group of Members with the first signed Dara Lavtizar Bebler, which is under item 3 of the agenda, that the national assembly not adopt, as a result of the compromise proposal. If the National Assembly follows the proposed decisions, the Constitutional Commission also proposes that Members and Members of the National Assembly adopt the proposed position on the draft constitutional law to amend those articles, namely Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, which will be the subject of a decision under the second item of the agenda. Since the report of the Constitutional Commission includes the full discussion and decision on both proposals to amend the local self-government in the Slovenian Constitution, the present report should also be considered as a complementary explanation of the prepared report in the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Minister, Dr. Ivan Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendments to Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, contained in the compromise proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure, are an important milestone for the establishment of a second level of local self-government. The establishment of the provinces calls for real decentralisation, i.e. the transfer of tasks from the state to the provincial level, together with financial resources and the implementation structure. This would allow for the resolution of open issues that relate directly to the provinces and indirectly to the organisation of state administrations in the area between the municipality and the country. The path for the process of decentralisation of public administration would also open up, contributing to the smoothing of the current and developmental problems of the state. The province would become a vehicle for development in the regional area and would allow for more effective implementation of the development policy that we are implementing today through a specific institutional mechanism, followed by the adopted law on the promotion of coherent regional development. The construction of the landscapes will also give Slovenia an internal governance breakdown of the country, as is the case in the vast majority of European countries. The main objective of the regionalisation of Slovenia and the related establishment of the provinces as independent administrative and political territories of the subsystems is therefore the decentralisation of part of the government functions and the transfer of public affairs from the state to the provincial level. Therefore, the introduction of landscapes is linked to the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, which allows for the proposed amendments to the Constitution. The proposed amendment of Articles 121 and 140 of the Constitution allows for the established European principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the transfer of tasks from the state level to the administration of the provinces as well as the municipalities. It is essential, however, that the right of the municipality, which has been delegated to it in order to obtain financial resources for this purpose, is protected at constitutional level. However, the most important is the amendment to Article 143 of the Constitution, by which the establishment of the provinces so far is possible, but is left to the municipalities which decide voluntarily to join the provinces. The proposal to amend Article 143 of the Constitution provides for the simultaneous establishment of provinces or the division of the country into provinces as separate administrative and political sub-systems with the right to local provincial self-government. In doing so, it is particularly important that the law establishing the provinces be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and that the procedure for amending the law should ensure the participation of the municipalities. It is also important that the State by law transfer to the provinces individual tasks under State jurisdiction and provide them with the necessary resources. There is already a legal package to cover the procedures for establishing the provinces, powers and tasks, financing and elections, with special attention to the role of municipalities, as we do not want to transfer centralisation from the national level to the province as part of this project. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, contained in the compromise proposal to amend the Constitution with the first-signed France Tsukjati, supported by 72 Members, since only the establishment of the provinces means the decentralisation of our country and thus an important contribution to the coherent regional development of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. With regard to the timing of the debate at this item on the agenda, I would remind you that, in the first part of the discussion of this item on the agenda, we will only hold a debate on the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure. We will then stop the point and, in the context of the votes, continue to decide on the decision to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure. If the National Assembly adopts the proposed decision, it will immediately proceed with the debate on the draft constitutional law and the views of the Constitutional Commission. This debate will be held within the framework of the available time, which will remain at the disposal of individual participants in the item. Please take this into account in the debate. As we say, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to the representative of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Josip Bajc, to present the position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with co-workers, a beautiful day and the beginning of today's meeting of the National Assembly, when we consider not only this, but I think there are six more laws concerning the changes to our Constitution. The first-signed group of Members, Dr. Frances Cukjati, proposed to the National Assembly a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to allow the establishment of provinces in the Republic of Slovenia as a broader form of local self-government. These amendments should allow for a link between the work of local communities and the Ministry or the State. In order to allow for the reform of local self-government and finally to continue the establishment of a two-step local self-government, it was necessary to cut in paragraphs 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to see that after 1994, when the law on local self-government or the establishment of municipalities was adopted, the process of reforming the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was finally resolved to allow for the establishment and functioning of the provinces. We are particularly pleased, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, that, with the help of the President of the Constitutional Commission, representatives of the majority of the parliamentary groups and with the assistance of the expert group appointed by the Constitutional Commission, such amendments to the Constitution and solutions that will at least receive, we hope, the numerical support of all Members and Members in the consideration of the National Assembly. As it is said, in order to achieve the objectives of further construction of local self-government, it is necessary to cut into amendments to Article 121 of the Constitution by deleting the first paragraph and amending the second paragraph in order to enable administrative authorities to carry out the tasks of legal or natural persons, provided they are authorised to do so, or provided that they are allowed to do so by a specific law which will still have to be adopted. We bring the biggest change for today's treatment in Article 143 of the Constitution, which is already talking about the possibility of establishing the provinces, but this leaves the community to volunteer. In almost 12 years such arrangements did not contribute to or establish any province in the Republic of Slovenia. Article 143 of the Constitution, as amended, and on the basis of the legislation adopted, will allow for the establishment of provinces as self-governing local communities, which will carry out local affairs of wider importance and with special law also matters of regional importance. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also express our support for the amendments to the Constitution under consideration because, in the third paragraph of the new Article 143 of the Constitution, we have written down that the State by law has to transfer to the provinces individual tasks under national jurisdiction, but must provide the necessary resources to do so. We hope that such a provision will no longer allow the national assembly or other institutions to transfer powers to lower forms of organisation without providing the necessary resources. The same finding shall apply to the amended second paragraph of Article 140, which shall indicate that the State by law shall transfer to the municipalities the performance of individual tasks under its jurisdiction, provided that the necessary resources are provided for that purpose. For all these reasons, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the draft constitutional law on amendment 121., 140. and 143rd Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group took its position on the need for organisation and on writing to the law or to stop the Republic of Slovenia regarding the area of new territorial division or, in other words, for the first time presented the province in 1998, for the second time in 2000 and until today, this position remained the same. We believe that such matters of an organisational form of a territorially rounded unit must not become dependent on day-to-day policy. We fear, however, that, in this time-recorded concerns under constitutional changes, it has not sufficiently ensured that the provinces will not remain immune to the daily political movement. In short, the position has been repeatedly exposed and we have always sought to meet three conditions insofar as we approach the change in the constitution. The fact is, at least in our belief, the already existing Article 143 of the Constitution makes it possible to revive, establish and survive the landscapes. We all know that, years ago, this National Assembly had already met with the law establishing the province of Cora, that at that time, it was said that the law met all the conditions for the implementation or inclusion in the meeting of the National Assembly; that is, when the National Assembly landed and adopted the law on the province of Cora or the law establishing the province of Cora - I do not know what it was exactly - he acknowledged that the existing 143rd Article allows the establishment of the province, but that in this society, let's say political society, there is a lack of political agreement on how much and what landscapes we will have within our country. At that time, the majority position of Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was to be insufficiently appropriate within the framework of the law itself, so that a new constitutional change, which would specify in particular the tasks, financing and number, should fall into the long-term survival of the provinces. And we have also agreed to this in the National Party, but we believe that when the time comes for constitutional changes, we will meet with a proposal that will meet all those guidelines that have been exposed to the adoption of the Coral Region Act. However, in addition to that law, with which the National Assembly met, which was included in the meeting of the National Assembly, we estimate that it would be wise for the National Assembly to learn something from the parallel acts that we have adopted; that Members' groups, Members and Members, and all those who participate in the legislative process, to take into account in their decision all those phenomena within our society that may or may not have a direct impact on the survival of the provinces. And if it were our duty to learn from mistakes, then we should consider the origin and the existence, if I may say so, of local communities. We all know that with the first elections to the local community bodies in 1994, the municipalities or, in other words, the local communities were much smaller than they were today. This means that we have made it possible, unfortunately, that the number of municipalities has remained dependent on the current policy, especially government policies, and that the number of municipalities changes almost from day to day, depending on what political group is interested in taking part in the next local elections. In short, I want to say that policy has subordinated the number and functioning of local communities solely to its position on the ground. And this should be a good guide to what should not be, an emphasis on what should not happen to the number and division of landscapes within our country. We are afraid that we will move from the number of some ten at the beginning of local communities or communities in 1994 to - we are approaching the number 210 in this year of local communities, so that the same inflation of the burdens it imposes on them or the basis of the daily political movement, so that the same story, unless we protect more constitutional matter, will take place within the landscapes. But as the issues of local communities and what daily policy should learn from this, two more questions remain open. We know that we have failed in the field of local communities in these tens and several years, when quite a few governments have changed, we have adopted - I think almost the Z-th amendment of the law on local self-government. The Law on Local Self-Government is one of those umbrella laws of the municipalities, which has so far been almost mostly replaced in the area of jurisdiction, in the area of partial funding, in the field of local community bodies. But all this story of the Z-th change, the change in the number of municipalities, has taught us nothing in the story of the establishment of the provinces. And this is the basic resentment that we are fostering within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to the changes that are ahead of us today. In short, we act as if there have been no mistakes in the history of local communities in our country. But the story of the mistakes of local communities is far greater than the number of changing municipalities a day than the unsettled tasks of unsettled funding. We all know that there is almost no year, either before the elections or in the interim period, when in this country we would not offer a referendum directly or indirectly to individual residents of a given territory within our country. But is that responsible? Not only to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we all know that the referendums cost both individual local communities and the state budget, but it is our assessment that it is the duty of the National Assembly, which in this case, in addition to the legislator's function as the founder, to allow some kind of long-term to our people, because citizens and citizens are actually our people. And if we have not been able to do so within the congregations, then we should learn from these mistakes and ensure this to those living in a particular province. As regards the fears of the Slovenian National Party against such changes that are ahead of us today, we have a constitutional commission and a first-signed one, I think we have also drawn written attention to the three concerns that we have in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group before the said act or content. As I said, we fear that daily policies will be repeated within the required number of provinces. If the National Assembly agrees not to write down the number of provinces in the constitution, it will become simply a daily political fly. We all know that this is one of the easiest ways to approach voters and voters. Our proposal in the framework of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, our proposal in the context of communication or correspondence initiated by the first-signed - and, of course, we thank you for this possibility, Mr President or the first-signed Mr Tsukati - we have pointed out that the number of provinces should be recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What would that accomplish? According to our assessment, the province would give the role of the constitutional category as it would be deserved, given that we are always and everywhere full of mouths about how much life will change for the better once we have the provinces in our country. I've received an answer several times to the effect that the number of provinces will be recorded in a law that the National Assembly will adopt by a two-thirds majority. At first glance, we can agree with this explanation. But I think all of us know the difference between legislative and constitutional procedures. The law, adopted by a two-thirds majority, is still the law. The Constitution is the highest legal act and according to our assessment the number of provinces in terms of the pursuit of long-termness should carry in its content "in Slovenia there are so many and so many provinces", pika. This would make it impossible for people, not least of all, to exercise executive and legislative powers within a year, two or three years, and again five years from now, to meet or question whether we should establish a new province. Since there will be a political option within our country, I do not say which one, it would have been much better for it if the province were smaller or if there were two new provinces, because we would have controlled this political option, this province. That's bad. But unfortunately, all of you, except within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, have decided that you do not want such a guarantee for the long term of the number of provinces within our country. We think there's been a big mistake here. And if I also touch on the very important element that we expected it to be written in the content of the proposed constitutional changes, it is a matter of funding tasks and obligations. But before that, allow me to point out, according to my assessment, a very important attitude of the government towards this issue. One of the representatives of the previous government in our country has told a very interesting story, I do not want to criticize it, but mainly because of the interestingness of this story I would like to tell you. He said that in the previous term, he and some ministers of the table were sitting and talking about which ministry would transfer what tasks to the provinces. He said after 30 minutes of watching each other just finally talking. And when this man asked them, "Well, Minister of Transport, what are you going to take to the provinces to make the provinces come alive?" For in the final stages we always sell this story, in connotations, of course, to people or citizens and citizens. He looked at himself and said, "I don't know what tasks to leave to the management of the local community." And it came to the realization that ministers were willing to convey only those so-called unpopular topics, those through which ministers were not able to increase their popularity on the one hand, but only those who had or did not carry out their activities, but as soon as they received this set of negative tasks, as they were named in this society, the question of how to provide financial resources for them was raised. And it turned from year to year, so Article 143 of the Constitution remained the same as it is, therefore, in the opinion of the majority in the National Assembly, not in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, still precluded the living of the provinces within our country. And as far as tasks and funding are concerned: as long as we agree to, in my opinion, an empty dictatorship in the context of these changes that are ahead of us today, this government will also face the same question that ministers will not want to give those tasks that they estimate to bring them some popularity, so that there will be questions about which tasks will be delegated. But this is not the only question within the framework of the tasks to be performed by future provinces. Many times the division of tasks into original and delegated tasks has been exposed. We still do not know, today, in the context of the constitutional procedure or part of the Constitutional Commission, that I am a member of this Commission, without which the original powers will be transferred, without which the powers will be transferred; without which the powers will be transferred from that level over the provinces, i.e. by the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not those delegated tasks from the local community. So, one would think, and that's why it doesn't have to be a policy - that if we follow the idea of the strength of the landscapes, we will know in advance, and if we approach the establishment of the landscapes, we will know in advance what tasks these provinces will perform. Because if we don't have this answer in our hands, then it turns out, unfortunately, that we're following the theory that we're following exclusively, in my opinion, an unproductive goal, that's: let's have the landscapes, but we don't know what they're going to do. That's bad. According to our assessment, in the framework of the parliamentary group I represent, it would be far more useful to know in advance what tasks the provinces will perform in the first place. From this, it would be possible to see whether or not we need the landscapes, but today we do not know. I am afraid that the story will be the same as it was in the previous government when ministers sat together and were unable to agree on what tasks the countries will carry out, and on the other hand we will sit in the framework of, I don't know, a college, a working council in this house, in the National Assembly and reflect on what tasks we should take by law to the local community and transfer them to the functioning of the provinces. The same question is, of course, raised when we put the other side of the scale, the financing. For the fact is, if we, as it is supposed to be, transfer or determine the tasks that the provinces will have to perform, of course, we will also have to provide the necessary financial resources for this. If we do not, then, of course, it would be absurd to expect that the tasks will be carried out without the provision of financial resources. Hand to heart, we don't even know what resources the state will make for the provinces, whether these existing funds will be allocated to the local community, a percentage of income; whether this will be any new income from the provinces, which means, in other words, that we will have provincial taxes, provincial taxes, which will undoubtedly be bad for the inhabitants of this region; what resources will be, in what form and where these resources will come from, of course, - another completely unknown area that follows or follows the provinces in the form of content that these constitutional changes represent today. According to our assessment, none of these issues, not the issue of tasks or the issue of original delegated tasks, should be inconsistent today. In the second area, there is no issue of funding today when we are working on an infringement into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was claimed by the founders in the early years to represent one of the more stringent constitutions within Europe. We all know that we are protected by both quorum and special procedure to amend this most important act; and we also have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia so heavily protected. But I believe that the founder did this solely for the sake of preventing reckless intervention from being carried out too many times. According to our assessment, reckless intervention also means inappropriate intervention or, rather, inappropriate intervention constitutes reckless intervention. If we do not have defined content in this procedure, then this is an inappropriate intervention. In order to touch the third party within the time available to the delegation or the position of the Slovenian National Party's delegation, it is also our assessment that the idea of amending the Constitution in this area should also be followed by the organisation or organisation of the provinces, whether they are elections to the authorities and, of course, to the authorities of the provinces. During this debate in the area of the Constitutional Commission, we do not know how these provinces will work or which authorities will decide which matters in the context of the provinces. The fact is that you are part of Slovenian politics - I believe that a very large part of Slovenian politics - wants only to have a province, but does not want to know the answer to the question of what these provinces will do, where these provinces will be financed and how these provinces will work at all. It is only in terms of their immunity, i.e. provincial immunity, that they write down the number of provinces in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and thus achieve them, that I will use the term immune to daily politics once again. I see some disagreements, I don't know, maybe you don't agree with me, but all those who suggest this disagreement. Look at the story, you don't need to look far back, the story of local communities. From day to day, we changed the number of congregations. Whenever there was a group of Members, I did not accuse anyone of having a new congregation, but they made up a procedure. Some parliamentary groups have been at least that principled and invested as political parties, other than various civil initiatives with different names. The fact is, in the field of the life of local communities, Slovenian policy was not right for citizens and citizens. We constantly pushed them into question as to whether the new congregation should join this one and what it should be like to share and thus, according to my assessment, create confusion It is not the purpose, as I believe it was not the foundation for the congregations to change from year to year. In the National Party, we are confident that I will repeat it and leave it to my fellow Members for some time that the constitutional intervention should be more appropriate; that this intervention would essentially follow the question of the number of provinces, because the fact is that when the national assembly is divided into several camps, when we later - in law, not in the constitution - on your proposal - we will determine the number of landscapes again, according to my opinion. At that time, each of the political parties or groups, however, will calculate the number of provinces that would benefit them. How will the two-thirds majority then determine whether there should be 9, 12, 15, 21 provinces in Slovenia? And how will we prevent that law from having 24 provinces in Slovenia later in 2008? These are threats to the province. And if we do not know the number of provinces, if we do not know their territorial scope, then it is very difficult to determine the number or definition of tasks. The tasks depend on the size of one rounded whole, is this unit even a rounded unit, or is the division for the boundaries of this province historical, natural - what will these criteria determine? And if it is very difficult to determine tasks without knowing the number of provinces, then it is much harder to determine funding as well. These matters, according to our assessment, are too misplaced to be recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. A different approach would make sense. We have also offered you this other approach in the framework of the constitutional process or within the framework of the Constitutional Commission. This is a parallel treatment of both constitutional matter and legal matter. Therefore, in order at the same time to learn about the number of provinces, tasks, obligations and not least to define all of this in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This would, according to our assessment, follow that objective, which is seemingly, the emphasis is apparent, and you deserve everyone else. This is the objective of the long-term nature of the landscapes, and in particular the objective of ensuring the interest of the inhabitants and residents of these regions. The other shortcomings and, of course, some of the good things that the proposed changes carry in their content will be discussed by the other Members of the Slovenian National Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all present, even though it would be expected, as my colleague Žnidaršič says, to change the constitution of several Members and Members in this Chamber. But now we go to this compromise proposal. This is a compromise between the proposal already presented or offered under EPA 317 and the current proposal, mentioned several times. That perhaps success, if we can say so, would not indicate doubt, because those who proposed a change in last year have also signed under this proposal, probably for a sufficient reason, since most of what was proposed there is also summarized here. What particularly dramatic differences, I must say, I have not even noticed, so it would be illogical if we did not support it. Even some special improvements, I would hope to say, I do not find them in this proposal, but it is a compromise, which is essential for us to be able to accept it at all. In the DeSUS Group, we are not overly inclined to frequent or even change the constitution, but there are areas where the need to do so is apparent. The reasons why we will support this amendment of the Constitution or that we will express support for the proposed constitutional law are the following: as the Constitution now provides, it is certainly too rigid, too much of a possibility to prevent the establishment of the provinces, although the 143rd article does, in theory, enable them, but what more than a theory here is probably not to be expected. Nor is it because the political will required by consensus to establish the provinces by consensus and thus give up some of their powers and powers to the financial potential is clearly lacking in the congregations. However, as the provinces are needed, the proposal for this constitutional law is supported by us. As we now have in place, it is also bad because it has proved that we are in fact dealing with a complete stalemate in the development of local self-government, or even in the opposite direction. It's just that we keep grinding things, it's just that we keep sharing things, it's just that we've got a whole range of things, or a little overly said, with the naked eye of barely visible local self-governments, who certainly can't perform their functions properly anymore. And this fragmentation of Slovenia into ever smaller pieces is certainly not something that would be good for development. This is also shown by the fact that we are dealing with increasing differences across regions, rather than reducing these differences in fact despite the declaration of assurance that we will reduce them. This fragmentation also means increasing the power of the country. It also means so much centralisation, and it also means a great influence in local self-government, in particular the client oligarchy, whether it is one, the other, the third or the fourth party, who has succeeded in taking power in the local community. The way we walk is wrong, and the government also acknowledges in its text, which I quote in one part. He says that "with a large number of municipalities with low capacity, the country could not be managed differently than centralist". So, with what we have now, centralism is meant for us if this government finding is true, and I agree with that conclusion. So, by retaining powers and resources in the center - this is the only thing we can deal with right now. It is therefore a matter of gathering economic, social, political, administrative and all other possible power in the centre and that it is not possible to develop Slovenia as a balanced whole, as a community in which people would not flee from one end to the other and would not demographically endanger entire provinces, entire regions of our country. This centripetal power of the centre is therefore such that it must be resisted. Perhaps this has not yet provided, but it is one of the preconditions for us to get to the provinces in this way. Then it may not be possible to talk about a black hole, which is not cosmic, but it is political, economic, financial and different in this part of Slovenia, where it is also the seat of Parliament. Today we decide whether to change the constitution. We decide whether to give the concept of constitutional law support. We do not, however, decide - this has already been said - what the municipalities will be like in the future, what the provinces will be like and how the country or state administration will change in this regard. We will, of course, have a dramatic impact on all of this with legislation that will still need to be adopted. And it is a shame that we do not adopt this legislation in a way more packaged, that we have more of these laws ahead of us, that we have more analyses and projections, and that we can therefore also, on the basis of empirical data and projections in the future, decide more carefully whether we are right or wrong. Today, we are actually just opening the door, opening the way for some wide field of change in our legislation. The substance of the changes shall be in reverse order as set out in the articles. The most important is this 143rd article, which speaks mainly of the fact that the State can establish the provinces and that it is no longer necessary to ask for an agreement that is so deemed impossible to achieve and discuss how they can be transposed by law and on it or in accordance with the law of certain tasks and competences. Article 140 speaks of this and Article 121 speaks of public powers. So we're going from the most difficult problem to the ones that are needed, but perhaps not fatal. We in the DeSUS Group feel that it is necessary to support this bill, that this law has already received a good traveller in last year with a law signed by 25 Members and Members, and we are also convinced that sufficient consensus will be reached in Parliament so that the bill will also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members, Member Branko Marinič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps we could say that we are again faced with a historical fact when we have practically completed the second level of local self-government since 1994 that we started in 1994. The articles of the Constitution have been amended several times: 121st Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines the tasks of the administrative authorities, 140th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which deals with the work of the self-government local communities and, finally, 143rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines the wider self-government local communities. 143rd Article is therefore one of the most important articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as it defines here the municipalities which decide independently to connect to the wider self-government local communities, i.e. to the provinces. The principles and criteria for the transfer of powers are, of course, governed by the law. The proposed amendments to the Constitution would allow the reforms of local self-government, as I have already said, to be completed, to establish a dual-level local self-government with municipalities and with the provinces. What many would prefer or wish to do is, of course, that we could actually talk about decentralisation of the country. Because if we transfer the powers to the provinces, the country will have to transfer everything that belongs to it. So whether it will be the Minister of Transport or it will be one of the other ministers, the constitutional law will certainly define it as well. The regionalisation of Slovenia by establishing the provinces would thus end the construction of the Slovenian local self-government, allowing for the resolution of open issues that directly relate to the provinces, as well as the municipalities and the organisation of the state administration in the area between municipalities and the country. The path for the process of decentralisation of public administration would open up. The very fact that the administration of the country would be carried out at three and not only at two management levels would help to offset the country's current and developmental problems. The provinces would become a vehicle for development in an area where there is no institutional institution today, and would also be an operator of unnecessary public activities, which no one currently manages or performs in this area, with numerous, in particular financial difficulties. So this is the important segment that I said earlier that it is not just a transfer of certain functions, it is also necessary to provide the necessary financial resources. The establishment of the provinces would make a decisive step towards the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which means that the state only then assumes certain tasks where the lower units cannot effectively carry them out. The province would be a geographically relatively closed area, within which, despite differences in the characteristics of individual areas, the types of related economic, development and other issues and the interests they link. It must also have its cultural identity, Slovenia is extremely diverse, so of course it is expected that the number of landscapes that have already been spoken about today would be very important, but I am sure that even when we consider the number, we will be able to reconcile and define and determine the extent to which Slovenia really needs them. The proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law, i.e. to amend articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, will be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Ambassador Dara Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! In the LDS, we have decided to propose, together with the Members of the Social Democrats, a procedure to amend the Constitution on regionalism, which was rejected or not completed by the National Assembly in the previous term, because we felt that there was a great deal of work and coordination involved and that, on this basis, the expert opinions expressed strengthen the awareness of the need for these changes. At the parliamentary club, we were convinced that political parties that were part of the ruling coalition would be able to see through government operations that the current constitutional arrangements in practice caused certain problems, even though, for example, the Prime Minister, when he visited the government in Prekmurje, assured that the provinces would be, even though we will not change the constitution in this part. In fact, the current constitutional regime makes it difficult to establish landscapes and thus increases the developmental differences between the periphery and the centre of the country, and without constitutional changes, it is not possible to command and establish landscapes throughout Slovenia, at least with consistent respect for the Constitution. In a simple language, we in LDS wanted to achieve, by amending the Constitution, that instead of executing the assigned tasks assigned to Styjers, Prekmurci, Dolenjci, Gorenjci and Primors, they would be able to carry out matters of regional importance themselves; that development differences between the centre or Ljubljana and other parts of Slovenia would be reduced; that parts of Slovenia, such as Prekmurje, could develop more rapidly; and that the state would allow certain things to be done at the level of the provinces and municipalities or closer to the local population. This is why the House also supports the compromise proposal tabled by Members from all the parliamentary groups on 31 March this year to the National Assembly, as it draws most closely to this proposal for constitutional changes proposed by LDS Members and Social Democrats to the National Assembly. Moreover, with the compromise proposal, we are even very pleased that it is going in the direction that we are in fact supporting all the time, and we have also been very active in the working groups where we have come up with this compromise proposal over time. The text is sufficiently general and at the same time clear, as the substance of the Constitution requires. It shall maintain the provision under which the provinces are established by law adopted by a national assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present and which shall determine only the areas, seats and names of the provinces. The internal organisation is therefore governed by a specific law. The compromise proposal also introduces the duty of the State to transfer individual tasks from the State to the provinces. In our view, the province, as a form of a self-government community, must also assume certain functions and tasks performed by the State so far. We also agree with the provision that the procedure for the adoption of the law establishing the areas of the provinces should ensure the participation of the municipalities. The provision of both the legislature or the national assembly and the municipalities to achieve the greatest possible political consensus allows both the expression of municipal councils and the direct determination of the will of citizens and citizens, which, in our opinion, will help to increase the legitimacy of the decision-making of the national assembly on the borders of each province. Nevertheless, in the LDS, we propose that the National Assembly as a legislative body, of course, agree entirely separately from the proposed amendments to the Constitution or the constitutional audit procedure, or decide how to determine the determination of the will in the areas of individual border municipalities, i.e. those that will border on another province. The same applies to local matters of wider importance. In addition to matters of regional importance that will be determined by the State with the law and the tasks of the State administration that the State will transfer to the provinces, the provinces will also carry out local matters of wider importance, as already referred to in the current 143rd Article of the Constitution, which are now under the jurisdiction of the municipalities. Therefore, the legislator in the law, which will regulate the powers and tasks of the province and their financing, will also have to provide for the tasks that will be transferred to the provinces from the municipalities and thus also round up the actual autonomy of the municipalities, that is to say, financially and normatively. In the LDS, we believe that such a compromise proposal could finally lead to the establishment of the provinces. If so, changes to the Constitution could be made this year. However, with the appropriate political will, the provinces could continue to operate in this mandate. We are aware, however, that the establishment of the provinces depends to the full on the political will of the ruling coalition. Finally, I must add that the European Charter of Local Self-Government, adopted by the Council of Europe and ratified by Slovenia a few years ago, if I am not mistaken in 2001, has also set a second level of local self-government as an obligation. And with such a change that we are now proposing or will obviously reach agreement on it, it is precisely with this change of constitution that we will be able to fulfil this commitment and thus achieve one of the standards that apply in this area in a democratic Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! The desire to amend the three articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not new to this mandate. However, this is a fundamental change in the awareness of the necessity of amending these three articles of the Constitution in all those who have argued so far that the introduction of a two-step local government can be achieved without the proposed amendments to the Constitution. We have had several suggestions from local communities put into the parliamentary procedure in the past. The Croat Region Act even passed the first hearing in the National Assembly. Already in this mandate, the labour force, i.e. the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, has considered the proposal for a law establishing the Savinja-Salenia Region and has "frozen it" until we have adopted a comprehensive solution, i.e. amendments to the Constitution, and thereby enable the adoption of the necessary legislation. Attempts to establish the provinces from below have been unsuccessful, but Slovenian politicians have also been informed that the provinces are necessary and that individual areas of Slovenia are difficult to expect. We have warned about this in the Party of Social Democrats and before in the United List of Social Democrats since the introduction of local self-government, when we have effectively centralised the country, with the excuse that it is impossible to transfer individual tasks to a wider local community, to prevent the decentralisation of the country. In a previous reference to the National Assembly, the Government summarized and supplemented the 1999 proposal by a group of Members, which envisaged a change to the Constitution. Unfortunately, there was no consensus within the Constitutional Commission at the time. Although, in view of the current proposal, which is supported by more than the required number of admissions, it is unwitting to conclude that it was more than a matter of prestige. In the Social Democrats Group, we welcome the current readiness of a large majority of the parliamentary groups to finally amend the three articles of the Constitution, thus providing the possibility of adopting laws that will fully and simultaneously introduce a second level of local self-government throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This will ensure the participation of local communities. This is, of course, the first step in a difficult and long-term process in which it will be necessary to find answers to the questions, what areas we want, what their powers are and how they will be financed alone and otherwise. In doing so, we cannot shake off the fear that this time, as in the case of the municipalities, the debate could focus mainly on finding the answer, how many landscapes and where their centre will be, and the content of their tasks and competences will become a marginal theme. In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that the basic task of the provinces is to combine the development potentials of the individual environment and to overcome the idea that decentralisation of the country is primarily an additional cost. The provinces must become an important factor in the introduction of so-called more coherent regional development. At the same time, the provinces will allow the decentralisation of public administration. In doing so, it will be necessary to answer the dilemma of the landscape - the amphibian, yes or no. In addition to decentralisation, the provinces will allow for the application of the subsidiarity principle, which will allow tasks to be carried out at the highest level of efficiency and that the state will only assume certain tasks when lower levels are not effectively carried out. The proposal, supported by Members and Members from almost all parliamentary groups, is a compromise proposal based on proposals put forward by Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, on the one hand, and on the proposed amendments to the coalition MPs, on the other. In certain segments, the current proposal has even softened the conditions set out in the initial proposal and has been withdrawn from the demands of the opposition of the previous mandate. In the current text of the amendments to Article 143, we provide for the adoption of only one so-called roof law with 2/3 of the majority of the votes of the Members present, a law specifying the area, the seat and the name of the province. This will also ensure the participation of the congregations. However, it does not contain a proposal to amend Article 143 of the Constitution, which required that the law on the financing of the provinces be adopted by 2/3 of the majority of the votes of the Members present. In the compromise proposal, we have therefore listened to the professions and to all those who have warned that this proposal is pointless and raise the question of why the law on the financing of the provinces would need 2/3 of the majority, and the law on the financing of the municipalities is sufficient for the general majority of Members and Members present. In the current proposal, we have also missed out on the precise determination of the involvement of local communities in establishing the provinces. We have committed ourselves to ensuring the participation of local communities. The amendment adopted at the proposal of the Social Democrats in Article 143 is also important. The previous proposal provided that the State could, by law, transfer to the municipality individual tasks under State jurisdiction, provided that it also provided the necessary resources. On the proposal of the Social Democrats, the word "may" has been deleted and this is reflected in an explanation which states that, following the prior consent of the municipality or the wider local self-government community, the State shall transfer to it the performance of individual tasks under State jurisdiction, provided that it also provides funds for that purpose. It would probably also be good to delete the word "may" in Article 140. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore support and also support the rejection of the basic amendment of the Liberal and Social Democrats because we are convinced that we have reached an important agreement based on the knowledge of the large majority of the current Assembly that the provinces in Slovenia are essential for the further comprehensive development of our country. He has thus finally matured to the time when we have responsible parliamentary groups in this national assembly that continue to work from the previous mandate, even though they are currently in opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u19	I'm sorry, thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Nova Slovenija Group, Member Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Today, in this national assembly, we meet again with material that is not new, which has been on the agenda many times. Finally, we have been very busy with this topic in the previous term, and I think it was at the 35th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, when we had two proposals before us at that time. One was a proposal by a group of Members who proposed simply Article 143 of the Constitution should be deleted and another proposed by the then government, which went to amend the three articles of the Constitution, explaining that this is necessary if we want to establish the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. The position of New Slovenia was the same at the time and today. We are still convinced that it is not necessary to change the constitution for the establishment of the provinces, that will is required. In fact, in order to create a province beyond the change of constitution, attempts were already made when certain congregations wanted to connect and thus establish a province. Of course, two preliminary tasks should be fulfilled. First, the adoption of a law on what the tasks of the provinces should be, and secondly, to determine the more difficult question of how the provinces should be financed. Unfortunately, even after several years of debate today, we still do not have these laws. The only thing we have is, I would say, a grave draft on the tasks of the provinces, which was adopted by the National Assembly back in 1999 and in which the tasks to be performed by the provinces were written very widely. Thus, in accordance with the legislation adopted at the time of the first reading, certain municipal activities, then certain energy activities, certain educational activities, then economic, craft and agriculture control activities, should carry out joint activities in the field of traffic regulation, then certain activities in relation to natural and other accidents, the regulation of space and the protection of the environment and certain other public services, as well as joint activities in the field of the protection of natural and cultural heritage. It was therefore a very loose and broad definition and an idea of what to do in the future and what the State would be willing to do in the sense of subsidiarity. Even more so was the law in those days lacking financial resources. At that time, it was written in that law, and even in the first reading, it was adopted that the province should be financed by its own resources. What are your own resources? Could it actually be that the provinces could prescribe some local taxes? We know if this happens, how citizens and citizens will like it. The law then stated that the provinces should be financed by state funds. Would the state be willing to give up part of the income for this purpose and, if so, what part? However, what is likely to be the biggest problem is that the record in the law or the plan that part of the municipality’s financial resources should also contribute to the financing of the provinces. We already know that Slovenian municipalities are spending about 4% of gross social product on financing all their tasks there, and that this is, in fact, the least among the members of the European Union or that we are far away from the tail. We also know what problems the government has put into the 2005 budget rebalancing, that after years of transferring many tasks to the municipalities, but also of providing financial resources, that it has increased by 10% in 2005 and that we are facing financial problems and that it will not be any different in the future, because it simply cannot be different. The only law that was adopted in the first reading in 1999 was to determine how the political institutions of these provinces were to be regulated, namely, it was written that it should be for some directly beloved provincial councils, that the provinces should have their provincial heads, including some other provincial committees appointed by the municipal councils. If we put this into another vocabulary, it's an extremely expensive and bureaucratic waste that would cost us a lot at the end of the day. We in Novi Slovenija are very critical of the opinion of the previous government, and it has been heard here today by the minister, as well as some MEPs say that, in fact, because of the emergence of small municipalities, there has been centralisation and that because of over-centralisation and because of the need to give regions new development incentives, the landscapes need to be established. As far as centralisation is concerned, of course, those of us who have been in the state administration for a long time, we do not have to believe and agree to this. We see that this desire for centralisation is constantly evolving and that it is, in fact, a desire for ministries from a centre to manage and regulate all matters. If someone wanted to give up certain tasks under the principle of subsidiarity, a wide range of areas could be regulated as well. Thus, for example, in the previous term, the government seized certain powers from the municipalities and transferred them to the ministries at that time, without giving any effect to the transfer of powers. In the end, the only effect was that the services to the people had been withdrawn, whether it was the geodetic administration or the tax administration or the inspection services and that, on the other hand, the cases had also been encouraged. Looking at the budgets of past years, we can see that we have increased the funds for this purpose much more than we would expect from these effects or from these changes. Even if we change and now give some area the status of the province in New Slovenia, we are not sure that this will make regional development significantly faster. If you turn Prekmurje into a province, this status will not make it more rapid. If we want faster development, there will be a lot of other things to do, but not only that we have in the past set up a number of regional development agencies that have spent a lot of money and have not produced the effect that was expected of them. Also in New Slovenia, we think that, as far as constitutional changes are concerned, we should be conservative in this respect, not in any case, and at any time, when this is not necessary, to change the constitution. Only change the Constitution when necessary. Therefore, so far as a party, we have only supported those changes that were actually necessary for Slovenia's entry into the EU. We are still convinced, and I have already said this in the introduction, that it would be possible to establish landscapes from below and that, in fact, then, in the true sense of the word, there would be a province at the wish of people. While the current change in some way also means that municipalities, citizens and citizens will have an impact on what provinces will be created, those who claim that this could result in an excessive number of provinces are right to a certain extent in this regard. As for today's decision to continue the process and to adopt a position, I will say once again that the position of New Slovenia is that, in view of the great unity in the National Assembly, we do not oppose it and that we will today support this process and the continuation of the process with a clear communication, we repeat it, but that does not mean that we will also support the final amendment of the Constitution. We demand that, before we join the constitutional change, in this National Assembly, we adopt a law on the tasks of the provinces, so that we know exactly what those tasks ministries are willing to carry to a lower level. One of the interlocutors, I think my colleague Peca has already warned today, and we ourselves are aware that there will be many problems, because it is much easier to bear from the bottom up than from the bottom down, this will be a much bigger problem. An even bigger problem will be, and we demand that before the amendment of the Constitution a law on the financing of municipalities be adopted. At that time, we are likely to face the greatest reality of how to provide financial resources, and it is likely that the desire for a large and politically institutionally regulated province will wane somewhat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members. I give my word to a magician. Branku Grims. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The decision that is before us today is whether we want the provinces or whether we are going to change the constitution in this part and what the content of these changes should be. The decision on whether to fall into the Constitution is not fully uniform, for it shares the opinion already expressed by some that it is likely that solutions could be found under the present Constitution, which would lead to the regulation of the provinces. However, this is linked to many complications and to the issue of political will. And the outcome of this is that there has been a compromise, a compromise which is before us today and which is therefore valuable, because compromises, which stand for at least 60 votes in this national assembly, are very rare and therefore valuable and worthy of reflection and support. What I think is crucial to the decision-making process at this point, and what will be even more important when it comes to it, in the second decision on the constitutional law itself, are three very simple short criteria, which I should stress in particular. First of all, that Slovenia needs strong provinces, which will be quality interlocutors to the country. Secondly, that we need the provinces to which the state will transfer the powers it has, one part of those it has, and that it will not be just about taking the powers of the municipalities and transferring these powers to the province, for then we have done nothing for the local self-government, whose other part will be the province. And the third time. It must be provided with a stable, high-quality source of funding to carry out all the tasks of the province. But here I fear that this is the biggest trap for the current compromise proposal, because here I do not see enough protection. Gentlemen' agreements, I'm afraid that this national council is not in place, which is what we're going to face today, so that the story that we've already seen on the topic of local self-government when we're setting up the congregations doesn't happen again. At that time, the start of this process, based on the constitution itself, was adopted by a high level of consensus. Then it turned out that the great congregation could be ruled by a political option that then prevailed in the authorities of that time, and there was no way that it could prevail in small municipalities. And it triggered a scream and a cry of how small congregations are harmful, how they cannot live, a little less so that they were declared parasites on the body of the country’s mother. How very unfair such an approach, such a generalization, can be to convince anyone who comes to see, say, the development on one side of the city municipality of Kranj and, on the other hand, the newly formed small municipalities in that area, in particular Shenčur, Cerklje, Naklo, can understand how the congregation can approach its citizens, how it can take care of faster, better development and how much more carefully to turn each tolar. That this story, when the funding of the municipalities was subordinated, which, in fact, was then done and reinforced by many criteria, hindered the further development of small communities, would not now be repeated when it came to the second level of local self-government, it would be very good to pay due attention to it at the time before the final text of the constitutional law was adopted. Whether the appropriate guardian - it is still time - enters into the constitutional text alone or here - I also agree with those who have proposed this - it is necessary to take the first very clear and very certain steps in the national assembly, that after the whole of the whole package of regulations will be adopted, from constitutional level to legal level, to everything that follows, and will then, as a rounded whole, be established as a single part of the change that all, I firmly believe, we want. Slovenia, in my firm belief, needs provinces, under the conditions that I have listed, quality, good interlocutors to the country of Slovenia, including interlocutors to other provinces in other countries in a single Europe. And I must say, I look forward to the day when Kranj will become the center of the mountainous region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you. The debate is followed by a debate by Mr Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are opening the way for the amendment of the articles of the Constitution for the establishment of landscapes in Slovenia. This story has had a beard for a long time, we have been talking about it for at least ten years intensively, and all governments, as well as Members of previous calls, have spoken a lot about it, and unfortunately they have done little. Obviously, there was not enough political will, although many simulations were made, from three to twenty-two provinces and so on. That is why I am so much more pleased that today in this debate, where there is so much consensus in this National Assembly, virtually all political parties, but we are moving this way forward so that we can open the door also in the constitution and that we can take those important steps that are as important for Slovenia as the decentralisation of Slovenia. We have been talking about this lately very intensely, with our mouth full of us, how we will decentralise Slovenia, how we will balance Slovenia, how we will regulate the coherent regional development of this Slovenia, but we have not yet taken some important steps. Perhaps one of the more important steps today is at this meeting of the national assembly. And I also believe that in the end we will also confirm this with more than 60 votes to go into these changes. I think that this compromise, which has somehow been reached together in these times, is proof that even at such an important point as the establishment of landscapes in Slovenia we can find common points if there is will. And here is the will of all the parliamentary groups and probably also of the proposers to look together with the government for those points that can be found. This is one good journey and good proof that this national assembly can also find common points if it has common interests. And here we obviously got together well and found each other, and it's for my extra pleasure. As for local self - government, there will also be a lot of talk today, why so many congregations and so on. And every policy, every parliament, every government has some new interests, new congregations. I think that unfortunately, I see that some of you have a bad taste in the number of municipalities in Slovenia, but this is not good. I argue that this is good for Slovenia, I say that it is okay because it is the will of people to make those small municipalities that have appeared in these mandates back, in most cases work very successfully in this Slovenian space, bring together common interests, develop more quickly, somehow get together, if you want me to say so, in the municipalities and I think they have a successful development path behind them in these years. These few new congregations will certainly only add a few more impulses in those environments where they will be established, something also at these meetings of the National Assembly, and I am sure that this is not a bad trip for the future regions, because this micro level is important that people connect to each other to gain common interests and make it easier for them to enter their local community, even though it is a little smaller and perhaps even more friendly for people's lives. I am convinced that Slovenia is establishing this path by establishing the provinces when we are this area-specific legislation, but here I certainly agree with the military predecessors, which is an extremely important matter, how we will determine the jurisdiction of the province, what will go from the Ministry of this or that to the provincial level, and especially what is even more important, how much financial resources. But here we will have to talk seriously, I know that this will not be an easy task, an extremely difficult task, because what happened in Ljubljana will be difficult to get to Kranj or Sevnica or anywhere else. I believe it will be difficult and I know that the journey from Sevnica to Ljubljana is the same as from Ljubljana to Sevnica. Although I know that this will be a difficult path, a difficult path and I hope that there will be such a compromise as is likely to be today in this amendment of this constitutional law, even in those areas of legislation that the government has probably already prepared, that it already has certain starting points and that we will still be able to do so in my main area of funding to determine how, and in what way, and in what proportion, it will move from these ministries to the province. That's what I think is gonna be the toughest nut. And if it is willful, then success will also come to this area. And as far as the important area is concerned, the congregations also have a role to play in this establishment of the provinces. That seems like an important starting point. At the end of the day, the local community will be an integral part of the future landscapes and it is true that their word also applies to seek compromises with their consents or disagreements, as we are looking for today in amending these three articles. Dear colleagues, I believe and I hope that we will try to relieve this beautiful capital of ours. This is overcrowded both by institutions and by lack of housing, not to mention parking places and to transfer some things to Kranj, Sevnica, Mursko Sobota and elsewhere. This is what this government and I think most parliamentarians want us to share in the harmonious regional development of Slovenia, especially balance, according to our beautiful Slovenia. We have enough parking places, including apartments, business premises and many more, and we look forward to this concrete substantive decentralisation from Ljubljana to Posavje, White landscape, Prekmurje and elsewhere. I hope that these words, which are full of our mouths today, will soon be followed by sectoral legislation and, as soon as possible, concrete changes, so that in this mandate of the National Assembly and Government, this thing too, I will say after the Posavina, drink water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you. The debate is followed by a debate by Mr Aurelia Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, if I may, I will respond to the topic of the new congregations, which is related to the topic of establishing the provinces or changing the constitution. I am among those who oppose the establishment of new congregations from the very beginning. And also the claim that the new municipalities can show a great degree of development when compared to the actual state of development of the country, we find that it has torn legs. Eastern Slovenia was the most fragmented and there is the lowest level of development. There is the most shortage, the most need for development funds and so on. This thesis is very weak. But we finally agree on something. And here I am counting on more than 60 votes to change the constitution. I'd say better late than never, or if I paraphrase Armstrong, a small step for us, a big step for humanity or for the Slovenian universe. For today, we are opening the door to what we should have done years ago, the possibility that the National Assembly, on a new constitutional basis, should approach the formation of landscapes and decentralisation. I come from an environment that has some experience in this. Once in the old municipal system, as you know, there was a single international community with a common Ljubljana community that acted as a province, acting as a province, acting as a region. She had joint decision - making bodies, and she had transferred the powers of the three congregations that formed her and did many things. The results also show, for the Coast-Koper, Izola, Piran have inherited quite a few successful, joint tasks. When we shut down the municipal system, unfortunately, the coastal community was also shut down and this regional integration was transferred to the opposite initiative and the goodwill of elected bodies, mayors, municipal councillors, etc., but it was seen that this cooperation, this coordination, this connection of paws, because this was many times dependent on the time and mood of the people called. We're finally going this way today, we're going this way to create the conditions for a later step, which is still a long one. I believe that it will not be easy to find a formula of strong I would also say sustainable landscapes if we immediately barricade ourselves behind the narrower local interests and identities of individual spaces. We had heard one of the speakers earlier, when he was sifting through the vast larger provinces at one time, and you wished that one of the municipalities would be the regional center of the region of Gorenje, and we are there. More stories like this will also wish to be the center of the southern coastal region, but the profession here has already found something after my compromise and satisfying solutions, which are moving according to my assessment and, in my knowledge, also foreign experiences of similar arrangements between the 8th and 12th maximum 14ths. We can do our best, and I believe that this ministry will do it to find even more integration, i.e. a smaller number of provinces. However, I agree with those who say they are important powers. Here we go back to the concept of the landscape, which must be if we want it to be a successful amphibian. It must take over certain tasks of the State and it will not be difficult to make a list and a set of these tasks here, but it will also have to combine some common tasks of the municipalities. Here is the fear of the congregations to be deprived of their powers, unwarranted. There are certain powers to be exercised and to be exercised jointly by the border municipalities: the planning of joint roads, joint deposits, joint management of premises, including the use of certain establishments, etc. Today, of course, this dispersion does not speak for development. So I am also personally pleased, as an advocate, from the very beginning of regionalisation and decentralisation, that we have all come to know, even in those parties where you have been opposed all the time, that it is an urgent change in the Constitution and that the second part of this task is likely to be more demanding, but if we break the ice today, we have taken a big step for Slovenian humanity, as I said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Franz Kangler is on the list of applicants. [[He's not here.]] The next on the list of applicants is Member Franz Pukšič. [[He's not here.]] The next on the list of applicants is Member Jožef Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u28	Mr. Minister with the co-workers! In the ten years since I am a Member, the debate on the second stage of regionalisation, the second level of local self-government, is a standing position in the National Assembly. There have been many experiments, many unproduced ideas, and I must say that I have never actually been among the greatest supporters of the need for a change of constitution at this level in Slovenia. At the same time, I must say that at the moment I do not object to the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure, and in some way I believe those who are more involved in local government and government, that the final establishment of the provinces will also be an incentive for more balanced development of Slovenia. At the same time, I must say that the most important justification for this proposal is - I hope that it will come true someday - to reduce the differences in the development of Slovenia and that all citizens of Slovenia will have the same status, the same service, the same opportunities for development and so on. I also agree with what has already been said today that a number of steps will be needed and that the way to the real establishment of the provinces with the law will not be easy. I am also guided by the idea that future provinces, which will be established by law, must be lifelike. There will be much discussion about how powerful and how big the landscapes will be, how structured and what powers they will exercise. Today's amendment to these three articles of the Constitution provides for the possibility of transferring powers, granting concessions for this, and I hope that this will all work. Of course, I would point out in advance that both the ministry and the government, as well as everyone else, should be careful not to make sense of the establishment of the provinces, such as when political regionalisation was, say, in the previous country, when Slovenian Bistrica was in that delegation's seat and it was in some way regionalisation, under the avian area. And in some nuances this has been desired or even preserved until today. I found out a while ago, but I don't know if it's true for the European Community within the statistical regions to lead under a bird-like statistical region. It's totally lifeless. Slovenian Bistrica does not gravitate to Ptuj. This is a centuries-old tradition connected to Maribor, whether we like or don't have the Maribors, or we feel they are stronger to marginalize the Slovenian Bistrica, but there is no life, and if there were any way that anyone wanted to place the Slovenian Bistrica in the Ptuj region, I would resist it as a Member and would not accept it, because I know the thinking of the people on this territory. I also know the negative experiences from this delegate system, which he made, not only the landscapes, but also the souls and I don't know what, he wanted to change values and so on. I therefore firmly hope that, in this context, there will be no future error when we actually create areas of these regions, headquarters and names, and that in fact this second stage of regional, local self-government in the service of the people will indeed contribute to greater development, to better development opportunities for those areas that are lagging behind today. And once again, I have not seen the great contribution of the new municipalities, the smaller municipalities to more equitable development, have achieved enormously without it in Slovenia, and I firmly believe that if they did not have their own congregation, the appearance of the place would be significantly different, significantly worse. From this point of view, I think the establishment of a region is good, useful, which will bring some functions closer to people. Of course, I do not understand that those who are such opposers of the congregations are the greatest advocates of this intermediate article. I myself am the absolute advocate of decentralisation and if it will lead to decentralisation, but also to the rational centralisation of Slovenia and the institutionalisation of the second level of local self-government, then I will absolutely do so when we adopt the law establishing the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you, colleague Jerovšek. I give my word to Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, Minister of Parliament, Members and Members of Parliament, and all of you who have joined us on the balcony. The fundamental objective of establishing the provinces is the decentralisation of the public administration and the transfer of tasks from the country to the provinces, which would have resulted in a balanced development of the country, the Minister has justified in convincing us how important it is to decide to change the constitution. In Novi Slovenija, we do not oppose the process of amending the Constitution, but not at all if we do not know the task of the provinces before the change of the Constitution and the financial consequences of the assignment of tasks, as well as the establishment of a provincial apparatus that will lead the province. I am interested in the specific tasks of those who will be transferred from country to country. Now, I speculate that roads that are not interesting or for which there is always a shortage of state money and are essentially in bulk, will be cultural monuments that have been falling for decades and to which the country has not had the right relationship or some tasks from the congregations will be carried over to the provinces, such as helpers or pay or kindergartens, whose congregations have also recently become extremely thrifty or say that children are the cost of congregations. Or will the provinces be better engaged or have visions for companies that no longer have visions or are in decline, such as Cellulose in Krske or on the brink of collapse are Bethi, Mura and similar? I also wonder what new congregations have to do with this. Apparently, some MPs were laid in the stomach. I wonder if these municipalities have been created outside the country of Slovenia, beyond its borders, whether you will not include them in the expected province, or if you will already rub them in the chalice. What role will local communities play? Will they continue to be a free labour force and a development driver in the municipalities? All these questions come to me when we talk about changing the Constitution so that the establishment of the provinces can be possible. Today, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support this proposal to initiate a constitutional change process. Before we support only a change of constitution, however, we want to have clear laws that will talk about financing and the tasks of the provinces and also financial consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. Under the rules of the National Assembly, the Minister has made a statement within your available time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd still be answering right now. I will try to answer some questions that somehow bind themselves to the red thread of this debate. The existing constitution allows for the establishment of provinces already in the existing Article 143, but experience has shown that we have not reached the provinces through such a solution. Therefore, I also personally welcome such a step, which has been taken further, and I believe that this step is extremely important in the establishment of the provinces themselves, by the fact that the provinces represent the decentralisation of the state, which is necessary, but this urgency is particularly evident in the area of coherent regional development. The fact is, if we look at this aspect, then we can find that there are extremely large differences between the individual regions, but at this point in time in the statistical regions, and I am confident that by introducing the landscapes of this thing we will also move significantly faster in a positive direction. As far as questions of mandate and competence are concerned. The main purpose of establishing the province is to transfer the mandate, together with financial resources and also with relevant structures from the state level, to this provincial level. In this sense, I also see this development moment. If we do not go in this direction, I too may be asked the question of the purpose of establishing the provinces. Thus, a solution in this direction is necessary, the delegation of powers down. At this point, I would not explain all these tasks carried out by a number of ministries, virtually all ministries and public services, this set of tasks of regional importance, and we will also meet with them in this national assembly, and this national assembly will also, at the final stage, decide on the legislation itself in this area. It is not the purpose of this legislation to transfer or withdraw the powers of the municipalities, I repeat: it is not the purpose of depriving the municipalities of their powers, but it will be possible and I think it makes sense for the municipalities to carry some tasks up. At this point in time, there are some areas where there are tasks that can probably be more effectively carried out by municipalities at the regional level, if we just look at issues such as regional development, such as waste management issues, and perhaps some other tasks could be counted. Once again, however, the basic purpose is to carry down, but the possibility of moving up, of course in this positive sense, will be open. Neither would I, for the question of centralisation with the number of municipalities or with smaller municipalities has been raised several times today. The fact is that the decentralisation of the country is probably irrelevant in this sense and that this development, which appears to be in non-conformity, is not linked to the fact that smaller municipalities have been established, but that the smaller municipalities are probably the answer in some way to the fact that this development is such as that it is incompatible and therefore it is essential to establish the provinces so that we can accelerate these things. In any event, these smallest congregations have also played their part. Here it is also important only to set up landscapes, because moving tasks to the provincial level is essential to bring the task closer to the end user, which is to citizens and citizens and citizens, and the effects are also significantly greater in this regard. As far as point 3 is concerned, it is a matter of legislation. The mere change of constitution and the willingness to come to these changes, I assess or understand as some kind of lactmus paper to the politicians to show their readiness in terms of decentralisation of the country and the establishment of the provinces. However, this positive attitude and listening to decentralisation will also have to continue because the whole package of legislation will need to be adopted. The basic law establishing the provinces will be adopted by this State Assembly with a two-thirds majority. And that is why I also expect when these decisions come to the table, that the hearing of the policy will also be present so that we can complete this project. With the package of legislation to be adopted in the package, I agree with this, it must contain all these tasks, the powers to move down must also include the law on the financing of the provinces and should also include legislation on the area of elections or the way the provinces are managed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you, Minister. On the basis of the list of applicants, I give the floor to the Member of the Council, Mr Zagorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have heard quite a few words about decentralisation today, and we have not received concrete answers about tasks and finances after the Minister's appearance, and about what tasks and how to finance. One question that has not yet been raised today: Can a local community, for example, take the capital of Ljubljana, establish the province? The answer is positive by legal experts, which certainly does not lead to decentralisation, but rather to the additional centralisation of this country. And all those who spoke about decentralisation, let me remind you, I have before me a vote in front of me when we voted on the Main City Act, which further centralised this country, I have to say that they were only two, and fortunately the Member of the Slovenian National Party. That's why they don't have a full mouth of decentralisation, I'll say, at least for people who look at us and listen to us, of some greater importance. The next question we can ask ourselves in connection with this matter is the existence of the only interested community we have in this house, this is the state council. Will the State Council really be needed once the provinces are established? We know that in the national world, members of individual local communities, as well as the regions where they represent their interests, are meeting. Finally, it must also be pointed out that changing the Constitution is not an event or a system that is expected to happen very often. With us in Slovenia, I believe it is happening too often. I think that the basis for establishing the provinces has already been given in the constitution, only the political will and the desire to establish the provinces in this National Assembly have not been found. And if another question needs to be asked to the Minister, I hope I get an answer. You said you didn't want to repeat all the tasks that would be passed on in this National Assembly. I would ask you, if you can tell, not all of them, to tell them the 20 most important, but we have so much time, given that the ministries, as you said, are almost all of the ministries already involved. I believe you'll be happy to tell us the 20 most important tasks that will be passed on to the newly established provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you, Ambassador Zagorac. Mr. Secretary, will you answer? [[No, no, ……]] We continue the debate. Next on the list of applicants is mag. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] The next on the list of applicants is Member Villa Trophynik. [[He's not here.]] The next on the list of applicants is Member Michael Prevc. [[He's not here.]] The next on the list of applicants is Member Anton Kokalj. [[He's not here.]] The following is a member of the Council of Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. At the outset, I would like to say that I share the joy that has been expressed today in connection with the first step we are taking today in establishing the provinces. This I think is a really big event, especially because there is a lack of and weakness and inadequacy in the field of local self-government, in fact in some way even a defect, so great because we have no second stage, that it is actually an extreme necessity. Of course, I want to say that we all know well and that it is right that today, because of the historical memory, some things are said several times, because many words today were quite demagogic or not in accordance with what happened in the past. I think the main difference was that in all 12, 13, 14 years we have not come up with this concept, whether the landscapes originate from above down or the landscapes originate from below. And some who, in the past, have been engulfed in defending the formation of landscapes from below, the appropriateness of constitutional solutions in the past period, and that the Constitution, as we have heard many times today, has enabled this matter, which they wanted in every way even the unreasonable and irrational application of the role of individual municipalities in the process of establishing the provinces and even to some extent of the citizens, are moving today, and I will say very vehemently these things support and even cast critical words, pointing critical minds to past actions. I must say, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, that there has always been a serious intention in this party, a serious desire for these things to change and to come to a point when the provinces are being established, but never could this party itself carry out this and never had sufficient support both within the previous coalitions and beyond, within the opposition that has experienced a certain transformation today, I am very pleased that these steps could be taken. And here is where the word has already fallen, and I very much agree with it, it was prestige, it was speculation, it was a matter of not establishing under your coalition of landscapes, because this would be an overly positive point, these things will be blocked. Here in particular, I must stress that our experience with the Slovenian People's Party is extremely negative, and already within the previous coalition, in fact, it has advocated very extreme positions, now it has turned this opinion, even more, on the lack of will in the previous term. This lack of will must be translated into their own account by their colleagues, not at the expense of any other party. And it seems to me that the situation has changed, and I am glad that most of the parties have found this courage, found a constructive state-building attitude, and I will say no matter who comes to this medal now, obviously to the first steps, the solution comes at this point and it seems to me that this is a good thing. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, others were not allowed to do so, were not allowed, were not given, or were prevented with all possibilities. A few dilemmas are certainly still opening up, for the solution we have today is extremely broad and there are certain issues that are present, as well as some fears about further steps towards establishing the provinces. As has been said many times before, it is certainly a matter of jurisdiction, of which we do not know much at this time, at least not those who may not be among the consecrated. The fear that exists, or the appeal that needs to be heard by the National Assembly today, is that we hope that the government will be able, and that ministers will also be able to give up their powers, give up their power, give up certain financial means. In fact, there are many things in their hands - how much of this decentralisation will really be. Of course, I hope that these moves will go in this direction, so that we can find some proper distinction, because otherwise it will be a very lame second degree of local self-government. The next question that comes to me is how we will ensure what is recorded in the changes - the participation of the congregations. How to find the right measure while the municipalities have a certain influence, not so much to block certain processes. This criticism of previous requirements is that they must play a decisive role. Because if we had such a pattern, there could certainly be roadblocks, there would be white foxes inside Slovenia. That is why the National Assembly must actually find a way to cover the whole country and that such things do not come. And of course, it is more important here how we will subtly involve citizens and congregations in trials and listen to their wishes or to what kind of landscapes they want. Of course, there is another fear. If we are to adopt a law in the national assembly, then you know that we all have a lot of bad experiences in setting up congregations. The story here was similar. Non-participating coalitions were concluded for individual municipalities that passed the existing laws at different times, and I am also afraid in this case - that things will be "buying" in this Parliament to go to a large fragmentation of Slovenia and such a landscape, fragmented, small, partial, at first impressions will be very attractive, because I do not know how many of these new landscapes with beautiful names, seats and bureaucrats who will perform provincial duties. Here I am overwhelmed by the great fear of how this matter will take place in the National Assembly and how we will, in fact, be doing badly again in these matters. And lastly, how many of these landscapes will we know that we have many of these options, and I would like to present my personal opinion. It is not the opinion of the party, but my opinion, which has long been given in view of the experience I have, I also publicly present, is an opinion on three provinces in Slovenia, three rational provinces and nothing more. Because these provinces, if we have three, will have a role to play; if we have a large number, 10, 20, maybe even more, then these provinces will have a very modest meaning, in fact they will not be able to perform their functions, that will be the provinces without power, and we also have to think financially about what we will do, so many and so many regional seats, so many and so many regional heads, the worlds of the landscape, so many and so many spaces. It seems to me that we should and should, in fact, think rationally in this respect, that Slovenia is probably not so large that it is necessary to crush so much in this respect only because of the likeness of individual environments. And, of course, I think that we could also make another rational move if the provinces were to be united and to go to what we are always advocating in the LDS - three cohesion regions. But here the effects would probably be the best, although things are only partially covered, but I think that would certainly be the most positive effects. And in this sense, of course, I ask the Minister specifically whether we will adhere to the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council on the common classification of statistical units at NUTS2 level in Slovenia, which says that the provinces should have at least 150 000 inhabitants. That's how, that's very principled, you don't have to say how much, but in principle I'm interested. In view of its place of residence, in the always unpopular central Slovenian region, about that hated region, which, for years and years as the most developed region, is a towing horse in Slovenia, the government will obviously visit it if it is even in this mandate, in the end, and will also let it know what this central Slovenian region means, despite the fact that there are 500,000 people living in this region. I have called on the Prime Minister to place us somewhere, and among the interior of the Posav region, even in Central Slovenia. Unfortunately, I got the answer that maybe someday, in the future, in the fall, maybe just before the elections, because this is going to be very important. In short, I wonder, this large central Slovenian region is planned, more than 500,000 people, including the capital. I would like to point out that this region is actually made up of three very different areas: the capital, the suburban municipalities - relatively highly developed - and the highly underdeveloped rural area, which also judges and is, at this moment, according to my assessment in Slovenia, the most suppressed story. They are within a highly developed region, but they do not succeed in any way so that they can start off with any means. I am saying that I will be specific, about areas such as the Polhograje hills, the Tuhinj valley, the Black Graben, Moravian, the southern part of the Ljubljana Valley; areas which I know by my own knowledge are significantly more undeveloped than many declared areas in Slovenia. In this sense, Mr Minister, I am interested in how to regulate interests in such a large province, so that not everyone else will become slaves of the capital within this large province, in which such a capital would certainly play a major role, which is in some ways positive, but can also interfere with the environment, which is actually slightly less than half of the future central Slovenian province. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you, Ambassador Zalokar Orzam. Mr. Secretary wants to answer your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. In fact, I owe two answers, and probably one of them. First of all, as regards the issues of delegated tasks. It is true that the task will be more than 20, as has been said, but I can list some. In fact, in all areas, there are such tasks that it makes sense to carry down, I repeat, along with the financial resources that must cover the implementation of these tasks. In the area of regional development, the main task is certainly to plan and implement coherent regional development, in the field of economy - activities in the field of tourism policy and the business environment. If I only list some of the areas. For example, in the area of environment and space, it is important to adopt spatial acts of regional importance, to adopt an environmental protection programme, including housing construction at this level, to preserve natural values and to establish parks of regional importance. For example, in the area of transport, there is certainly a regional road network and prevention in this area, if we are talking about landscape work. In the field of education and sport - the secondary network, then the development of sport in the province. Also in the field of science is the establishment of higher education institutions, which are present at individual regional centres. In the field of health, there is certainly a primary health network and some other tasks. In the field of work, family and social affairs, the provision of a network for the establishment of social work centres, nursing homes, special social institutions and probably could still be listed. In the area of culture - establishment of public institutions of regional importance. Then there are also specific tasks in the area of protection and rescue at this provincial level. Similarly, these tasks are in many other areas. As regards the second question, which relates to the number and size of the regions. This is a subject that has been present all along, and I believe it will be in the future. The starting points are certainly part of the statistical regions that we now have. However, new landscapes on the one hand must be designed so as not to set up new centres of provincial centralism. And that is why I believe that the number of three landscapes in this respect is out of the question, because this would only make three additional centres of the centralist provincial level, and thus not solve overall development across the whole territory of Slovenia. On the other hand, of course, the provinces must be able to carry out the tasks of competence that they will be entrusted with in order to be effective so that development will indeed go in this positive direction. Of course, we are also aware of these internal differences within individual regions and at this point in time in statistical regions. This issue is already being resolved, and not least, we also have here through the amendment of the Law on Community Financing, for example, Article 36.a, which is also intended to eliminate internal differences, but of course the future provinces will have to have an insight into the design of their own development, in the design of their own policy and, of course, in this sense also taking responsibility in the implementation of this policy - including this internal disharmony, because this is a danger of these provincial centralisms: Therefore, we have been stressing this all the time, and today it has been triggered that the municipalities must be a local self-government partner of the province in this story, so that it will in some way be the first and second level of local self-government in some way in sonication, but not in exclusion. Therefore, it is necessary to be extremely careful and careful in the planning of the legislation itself and, of course, it is necessary to revise the law on the financing of municipalities and, of course, this part of the work or preparation of the new law in our service is already planned. Now, with regard to decision-making under the jurisdiction of the provinces, including in financial resources, throughout the package of legislation, the National Assembly has decided. I repeat that we will propose that it is the intention to propose an entire package of legislation in such a way that, when the provinces are actually being established in the next step, you will have the whole legislation on the table in this area so that all the issues that are being decided will be accurately known. Maybe I'd like to point out the procedure myself. Many times the question of so-called border municipalities is raised, we are aware of this issue, the idea is that the basic proposal for division is transmitted to the municipalities, that the opinion of the municipalities should be obtained and that the municipalities should be allowed to decide which province they would like to be in. I believe that this National Assembly will also respect this opinion of the municipalities after deciding on the establishment of the provinces themselves. And once again, the purpose of establishing the provinces is to move tasks of competence with financial resources, including administrative structures from above, is not to take responsibility for municipalities, but it is reasonable to open up this possibility that municipalities have an open opportunity to transfer tasks of competence to this regional or provincial level where it is necessary to operate and use them more rationally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u39	Minister, thank you. The next on the list of applicants is the MEP. Janez Kramberger. He's not here. The next on the list of applicants is Member Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd start with the words "remember your comrades." You are talking about decentralisation and how some of the administrative matters should be transferred to the regions, and I would remind you of one of the first meetings. The 6th Amendment to the Government Act, which we have tabled, says that the government adequately organises the Ministry territorially by transferring part of the administrative procedures to the expositions of municipal units. We did not realize anything from this law, but it was adopted. When we talk about the provinces, the issue of financing is fully open. I believe that you will be willing to transfer your obligations to the newly established provinces, but I do not believe that the ministries will give the money needed to carry out these tasks, which they prefer to keep to themselves and keep for some renovations of their premises or possibly perform any works without invitations to tender. And when the Minister speaks about what needs to be said about the areas of the provinces, all of this could already be done by the State Council today, the question is above all relevant whether the State Council is even needed. Of course, the law on local self-government is thus not realized in that part that speaks of the establishment of the provinces from independence to today. Why I believe that this has been deliberately pushed aside, perhaps because the ministry would not have as much money as they have today, and some things should be coordinated. The Law on Local Self-Government, as I said before, defines the right to establish provinces. These areas are awaited, but with such a poorly prepared law as this, which does not have defined funding for obligations and tasks, we cannot go in any unknown direction. I think that there are many things that need to be settled in this law, and in fact matter that would be acceptable and definitely also appropriate, then present to the National Assembly. What's the big deal? I don't know. After we learn when we accept something and then we do not respect it, our political parties or our policies are known and properly valued by the electoral body, we do not have any pedigree among citizens. Let us do a little bit of decentralisation on the basis of this law, which this Parliament has essentially adopted. Our amendment has been adopted and allow any powers to be delegated to the congregations within the ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren spoke next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament and our guests on the balcony! Today we are making an important decision because we are starting a procedure to change the constitution. You have already heard that New Slovenia is quite detained as far as constitutional changes are concerned. First of all, I would ask myself why the present constitution has failed or why it has failed to link from below, why the congregations have failed to complete their integration into the provinces or what the answer to this question would be. Either the country was too hard or the congregations stopped too fast. That Slovenia was too centralised, I think we all agree. I'm going to remember a little bit about the period when we were in Slovenia in some way implementing this centralisation. I was myself employed in the municipality, in the municipal body, when this centralisation of the Slovenian state occurred, when certain municipal authorities came under the Ministry, when others within the administrative units merged as an extension of the country. The centralisation of that time has greatly enriched the state administration. At the beginning we were only in the congregation in Velenj 60, 70 employees, we parted friendlyly, each to his own end, after a year the number of employees in administrative units increased, and the congregation quickly reached the old number 60, when it was the whole, then the future government of theirs. I want and I hope that something like this will not happen again during this decentralisation. I advocate and support the establishment of landscapes to actually bring decision-making closer to citizens and citizens, but I would also like to see this process rationalised, reduced red tape. Right here, I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. If the tasks of the current state administration are transferred, resources can also be transferred and employees can be transferred, so that when establishing the provinces they can also move to rationalising certain matters, as has been said several times about the rationalisation of the public authorities when it comes to administrative boundaries which should have the effect of proper rationalisation. It is said that there would not be so many leaders of various exhibits, but also employees, but that the use is shrinking as possible. We are in the period of electronic commerce, electronic technology, when there are no problems from different parts of Slovenia to quickly access the central bases, and also in this way to rationalise the state administration. I am convinced that, for all Slovenes and Slovenians, the main and essential issues in the province are: whether our impact on decision-making in the country will increase, or whether the country will be cheaper and more friendly to us. If we can achieve these expectations of citizens and citizens at least a little bit, then I am sure that we have achieved ours with the provinces. However, once again, I will stress what my colleague Sok has already pointed out in his presentation of the opinion, we will support this today, but it is true that until it is clear what will be the jurisdiction, what the country will do, what the country will actually transfer to the provinces and where the funds will be provided, if these things are not fully clear, if this proves that there will be no bountiful administration and enormous cost increases, then we will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Member Milenko Ziherl. Next on the list of applicants is Dr. Slavko Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! There is probably no one here today who would not believe that we are doing when we accept a change of constitution, something that should have been done some time ago, and I am very sorry when I listen to you, Mr Minister, and because I know that you come from a party of SLS, that you haven't been in a similar place since years ago, and Slovenia might have regions then. However, when we talk about these issues, it is probably necessary to realize that with each year when regionalisation is not implemented, Slovenia is late and goes to the empty potentials that exist in Slovenia. I also see in this the first and most important sense of regionalisation. In Slovenia there are a lot of people who can harness energy around fully concrete projects, around specific interests, and this form, they need to open up. Therefore, and we know this for a long time, it is necessary to change the constitution. All other talk on the topic of creating regions from below is empirically proven and I think that we have demonstrated this for too long, inefficient and does not lead to a link of power. I am afraid that behind the big words of how the regional people themselves will connect from below the municipalities, behind the backs of mistrust of citizens and citizens, and that the need to organise ourselves regionally and thus collect our strengths, to give us the right form, to establish a structure that is responsible at some level that could contribute to Slovenia an important element for the further step in development. Another important element of regionalisation is the counterweighting of power, the central government. This is necessary for a simple reason, because wherever we do not have counterweighted mechanisms of power, the logic of things is less effective, the extraction is smaller. When I talk about these two elements, one is the collection of energy around Slovenia for additional projects, another is the use of these energies, including for counterweighting the central government. I agree with those who point out that if we go into too much dispersion, too many regions, these will simply be too strong, too serious a partner for the state to represent this counterweight. I am counting on a healthy judgment in favour of this country in the future that we will discuss this. However, I agree as a person who is trying to make a political reality of the fact that it would be totally counterproductive to try to reach this agreement before the constitutional amendment is changed, and would probably only block the change of the constitution if we tried to write down all the powers in the law and actually attach it as a paper in this process. I myself understand that the country will transfer a large number of the powers it has today to the provinces and I am not afraid of anything, unlike some who have already said this today that it will not transfer the funds. It would be very good to understand that only then will the game really begin when the powers come, when all the funds reach the last tolar, then will the regulation of the fields not take place without problems. Once the powers come and the money comes, the real pleasures of regulating things with problems at the same time must be realized in the regions we will establish. But something else will happen, and this is the third thing that seems to me to bring the regions to Slovenia, and it seems to me that this is very important for the habitat of the Slovenian nation. For too long a centralisation, too long a period of centralisation and the absence of regions has been established in Slovenia. Ljubljana is a convenient excuse for everything, not only for what it is really responsible for, but also for what we cannot do or we feel we don't need to do, because they are guilty of it anyway because we didn't do it, in Ljubljana. This syndrome is developing, it is becoming a symptom of an internal implosion in Slovenia, it needs to be eliminated, it needs to be given a structure to take responsibility, it needs to be given the means to take responsibility, and it is necessary to withdraw the apology, which now partially exists for having an on-call guilty, on-call sin goat in Ljubljana. Let me finish this debate on Ljubljana. Ljubljana, at a conversation in Celje years ago, warned the Victory of Sagadin when we talked about what it was all about, how it dealt with how to prevent Celje from developing properly, not how to prevent anyone. Ljubljana does not compete with others; others we compete with Ljubljana, this is a logic that would be good for us to take in those who come from other parts. This option of an equivalent game gives regionalism. If this was an anti-liberal project, then it is not worth considering in the National Assembly, then it is not worthwhile to discuss it, then it does not make sense to bring it into the Constitution. Slovenia needs strong regions with strong centres, with all the contradictions it has with it, and also needs a strong capital. So it's not this game, it's not the opposite of what's supposed to be productive. That the internal tension between each capital and all the cities that would like to be is not, and probably never will be productive, but everyone who takes the time to at least an elementary insight into this structure of political space in various parts of the world knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Member Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with colleagues! Today we are actually discussing the reconstruction of the state administration or the complementarity of local self-government when we introduce another level of governance. This is a content that must have a political, historical, economic, sociological and other character. A very important theme that had already been devoted to by the national assembly in previous compositions, but he did not have enough happiness or courage. Without another level of local self-government, Slovenia would represent one rare exception between the Member States of the European Union. Above all, in Europe, which is made up of countries with developed local self-government based on a century-old tradition, a dual-level - I emphasise, two-level, not two-stage, because relations between municipalities and regional local communities are not generally hierarchical - local self-government has become a rule. The general European tendency is to create and strengthen local self-government in territorial units, which were only state administrative units of general competence at the first stage. In Novi Slovenija, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we advocate the right of local communities to regulate and manage all public affairs within their competence from the life and work of the inhabitants in their territory and not to interfere with the rights and obligations of other local communities. In our view, the governance system must be as close to people as possible and must enable successful planning and coordination of different interests. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, but we insist that we should or should have taken sufficient time in the past to define the exact tasks of the provinces. Today we are talking about the provinces, but today without defined powers, without defined tasks, the province is something abstract, and it is supposed to regulate people's lives in a specific area, and life is something very specific. Of course, it is clear that when we talk about powers and tasks and do not think about the financial supply of these organisational administrative forms, then we have done nothing. I personally advocate a relatively strong province, which means that they will also need to be provided with relatively high financial resources. When Members attend several meetings of the world of the region or of the regional development councils, then we see how urgent it is to implement the interim administrative level between the country and the municipality. It's logical that every mayor thinks about mayoral or municipal, and we have a problem, I'm talking about the region from which I come from - pomurski, that we don't have an administrative level or people who think regionally, so we don't have a project that has a provincial or regional character at all. I hope that, in adopting the amendments to the Constitution of those Articles, we will also reach a sufficiently high consensus here, in the National Assembly, when we adopt a legal package defining the tasks, the powers of the provinces and also the financing of these provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you. I invite Member Stanislav Brenčič to the floor. He's not here. I give my word to Ambassador Davorin Terchoon. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I could say that the debate today, when we make such an important decision as a traveller to change the constitution of this important area, is, in my opinion, quite lazily and nothing quite breaks the spear, a high degree of consensus is reached, but it must be said that regionalisation has been very long since the self-conservation of the top theme of Slovenian politics and partly of the profession. I wonder for myself how many different organisers, lecturers and so on have earned on this subject when they have been teaching various municipal officials and interested in the public for decades, how we will regionalise Slovenia, but nothing has happened. It is therefore right to adopt this very important act, and I must say that I will support the proposed text as well as my fellow Members in the Group. I also wonder, somewhat ironically, where is the principle of the current ruling coalition. There are no more fairy tales about 2/3 of the municipalities and the population and the will of these people to establish the province, to build the provinces from below. And, of course, I wonder why in a relatively fast time we came to the sensational position that we in LDS have been defending throughout. This proposed text is a very mild modification of the text proposed by the group of Members with the first signed colleague Beblereva, and such proposals have already been made in this national assembly. I can assess that unfortunately, the regionalisation of Slovenia has been the subject of speculation. It's just political prestige that we haven't come to this. The text is similar to it was a number of years ago. Only others are in position and opposition. And of course, in the opposition we are now in opposition, we are a different kind of opposition, and we do not want to impose on the country of Slovenia on regionalisation, which is necessary, as some have obviously done for many years, but have now come to ours. Because that's what the text is. There's no more from the bottom up, no more fairy tales like I said, which is what attacked the profession and warned them, and suddenly you realize how things are going, and I wonder where you got this enlightenment. Perhaps you were helped by the Roman Catholic Church, which is well - known for its caution. Let us remember how long we have waited for the Beatification of Blessed Slomsk, but it managed to be regionalised earlier than the country of Slovenia. We've got all the groups now. Anyway, it's a commendable step. This enlightenment is certainly welcome for the country of Slovenia. The country of Slovenia is highly underdeveloped in this area and can be classified as a bloc of the former countries of the Socialist bloc, where countries have fallen apart along the borders of the Socialist Republics and centralism has taken place in all order: Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, we can take Bosnia, we know why, but elsewhere there is the exact same process. And if we can say that the state of Slovenia has made very good progress in the years following independence and that we are so pleased with progress, and this also recognises the wider international community, we can also say that we have gone backwards in this area. That's what all the indicators show. The GDP per capita is a difference in GDP, in the gross social product between Ljubljana - central Slovenia and the least developed region, has jumped enormously. Today, development is 1:2, although Slovenia has exceeded, as we have heard, 75% of Slovenia's average. We broke the former municipal system, which had a lot of powers that we could also qualify as regional, but it was better, maybe it couldn't hold in that form, but we overreacted in a different direction, completely. Regionalisation is not necessary in order for some officials in future provinces to have their functions and so on, but in order to generate their own development. It is therefore necessary to decentralise powers and also money. I also wonder, experts have been walking for years and years by the government I have been teaching how we can follow foreign countries, and they always ask us, this is the rule in this national assembly, Austria, Germany, this is the law. So sometimes I wonder if we are their colony, as if there are no other countries, see how it is in Germany, how it is in Austria. Some may have nostalgia after the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy, others may have something else to do with it, but let's leave it. I don't believe there are just two countries. But if they already exist, why don't you come once with their case of regionalisation and what powers they have. We should ensure and imitate this in the first place, not that we have been neglectful for so many years. Slovenia is in fact a small country, but it is so diverse that it calls for regionalisation. At this point, I regret that three cohesion regions have not occurred, and this has also happened after the negligence and lies of the government. And of course, I will also say in advance that I myself will defend the position of the law, which requires a two-thirds majority of Members present after this constitutional change, so that border areas can be sovereignly decided on which province they will go. I'm also afraid of too much crushed into the landscape. This is where you land a small number of strong landscapes. The coastal and other countries are waiting for greater sovereignty, greater autonomy, it will be good for them and for the country, and the state of Slovenia will be stronger if so. I'm afraid there's going to be too much fragmentation. Here you land a small number, perhaps here you would look again at the Roman Catholic Church, which was quite calm. I think that the president of the National Assembly has also drawn a parallel, and I am closer to that number, as is now mentioned, because I come from Crassus, who, by the very criteria he is now speculating about, will find it difficult to get his land because of his size, but always historically gravity and belonging to the area, and was violently divided, which is not in the country of Slovenia and the center that is not in the country of Slovenia. And there it would be possible to think more rationally about the cross-border landscape than about the areas they are drawing for us, about a European region that will involve not how many countries, these are not even regions, these are areas that are written just because they can be heard. I am pleased that this consensus, which we have wanted all along in the end, will continue to come quickly enough, that their number will be rational, that their powers will be comparable to other countries and that their scope and strength will also be comparable to that of other regions, although some sceptics, even today you may be able to detect some assurance that we will also take further steps as quickly as the State of Slovenia or the citizens expect, and that we also need to be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Gezi Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings from government officials, colleagues, colleagues! Above all, those at the gallery who are likely to feel better about the development we are talking about today when we establish the landscapes. For this will be a process that will not happen today or tomorrow, and the results that should be will not be from today on or if they will be. This is probably what we all want, and the need that has been present for a long time, I think that the first step can happen in this current period. I usually try to be rational also in the debates and with regard to the subject that has been going on for a very long time, I would say that in addition to 4 hours 40 minutes of announced debates it would be wise to conclude this matter in 40 minutes, because we have nothing more to say to each other. One because we've been telling people this for several years, and those who have been obstructing this process for several years, I don't think they have anything else to say. And we should do what we agreed - I think the consensus this time is very high, after the same steps as they were, I try not to repeat what my colleagues have said a few times today - by voting to perpetuate, the first step or the first steps to then take the procedures forward, what and how with the provinces. I estimate that terminology causes us some problems, the region, the landscapes, we replace the establishment of the province, regionalisation, landscape-regions, development regions, cohesion regions. At this point, it is probably in the game of establishing landscapes by some procedure that is supposed to happen, and the final goal - more consistent development. After the elections in Pomour, we had a government visit - I think that there was no minister and co-workers in this government at the time - when the Prime Minister promised us the following three very important things in his address: you will get the province, the university and much more money than the previous government has given you. When we asked him when and how, given that the former reformers had also said that Pomurje had received much and too much, he replied: "You will get the province past the change of constitution. The one who laughs at you laugh back at him. Then you'll get the university and we'll fund the country by pulling you out of behind." So far, nothing has happened, but the province that is supposed to be created should do something to help. You know that in LDS we have the opportunity to form our own views or to think with our own heads. In all real variants Pomurje is always Pomurje, such as, territorially, geographically, with its population of about 140 000. And it's a variant of whether it's 8 or 10 or 12, it's unrealistic for me to think of variant 3, it's pointless or stupid for me to think of variants 14, 16, even 24 is a speech, which is a complete nonsense. As far as the warrants are concerned, you're down, no discussion. Is anyone hoping to say the same thing? There will be steps to be taken here as well. And when colleagues warn us - even those who are still and again for the establishment of new congregations, as much as people want - about the employment that took place when the old municipalities were divided into administrative units, into municipalities and so on, that today we will say that the provinces will give birth to new jobs. They will be born - Virant's plan has already collapsed and will fall again, and in the meantime, twice as far as employment is concerned. Those of us who may have been in this house for too long know that all the governments that have happened have been newly employed, once from the left, once from the right. At that time, I remember the president of that party who is here today pointing out the danger of new employment, that Dr. Drnovsku said, and what would we negotiate in this coalition, tell us how much we get. What are we supposed to get? How many functions are we going to take, and how many people are you going to hire? That's what's gonna happen now. The provinces will hire new people and there is no point in selling a story that will not be realized, but it will be a price, but perhaps in some areas things will be rationalised, of course with the presence of common sense, so that they will not achieve the opposite effects that we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Mojet to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u52	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, accompanied by visitors and visitors to the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting to all! I think the Constitution is the bible of law, and changing the constitution is a glorious or, whatever you mean, sacred event. I myself participated 15 years ago with my colleague Anderlič, in 1991, when we adopted the first Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and I know that the spears were also very broken in the chapter of regionalism. At that time, we were still accustomed to extremely self-governance, and it prevailed over the idea that local self-government could also be built at a second stage from the bottom up, not from the top down, because it was then considered not to be democratic. During the sixteen years of sitting in the parliamentary benches, I can say that there have been several attempts by Members, as well as by mayors in certain parts of Slovenia, to say that the province is called Koroška, so that through their consensus and through legislation they try to establish such a thing, but all these attempts remain only on trial. Indeed, such things have not been dealt with by the National Assembly at all. Therefore, I think today is a solemn day when the parties have reached a consensus to change the constitution in this step. Hamlet would say, "Support or not support this constitutional law, this is the question now." I can say that, given the implementation of my colleagues and colleagues, I am happy to support this proposal with great measure, because this is a condition that we need to move these things forward. And as the old Chinese proverb says, "if you see the goal," and the goal is the true centralisation of Slovenia - "then turn a step by step and you will reach the goal." But the first step in all this is important, and this first step is what we are doing today. When we take the first step, we do not see the whole path that we will have to follow and that we will have to make with our hand if we are to achieve this goal, because it is good that we need two-thirds of the votes for the law, and it is certainly what we are doing today, one of the last major projects that this country has not yet carried out. I think that people who will participate at administrative or ministerial level, like those in the parliamentary groups, will spill a ton of sweat to reach the final goal, that is to say, the law, or even legislation, which will allow for the functioning of the provinces in Slovenia. Let me mention just a few canons that my colleagues have said more or less, the first is fiscal decentralisation. Surely we now have in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia already one trillion 700 to 800 billion tolars, and this money will be slightly distributed to the provinces if the province assumes part of the country's tasks. It will also be necessary to provide certain funds, probably also through taxes, in order to ensure the original jurisdiction of the province, and it will certainly also receive some funds from the municipalities if it assumes their duties. As a result, a bunch of people who are currently in a position to fit into the financial market, where it is first-hand controlled, will be against the fact that the provinces are established and will do everything they can to ensure that the landscapes are not. On the other hand, it's a human resources thing, people are going to work here, and every province is going to need its own apparatus. If we think that there are 34,000 people in the government apparatus, this is already for one small town in Slovenia, which is mainly concentrated here, these people are employed here, they live here, they pay income taxes and they pay taxes to those that the city authorities also collect. Then, too, a certain resistance will be born through this staffing change or redeployment, and some who would probably have to, if they were to be removed from their country-level tasks and transferred to the provinces, go to or leave the country for work, will probably be large, large sands poured into the development stones or legislation that will allow the establishment of the provinces. I also think that politicians do not care how these provinces are to be shaped. For each province will also be a generator of coherent regional development, a generator of development and where development is, certainly, a policy. If these units were what we have in neighbouring countries, but unfortunately they are not, then in all countries they are most afraid of elections in countries, regions. They are much more afraid of them than in state elections, and many times the government falls, not because of state elections, but because of elections in different countries and similar things. This all means that the political profile of Slovenia will also begin to spread slightly to the local level, to the second level, to the province level and to the third level - to the state level. From this work, some who now control the entire political space will not be interested in such a thing being adopted. But I think we're getting hit by the next thing, that's the smallness of the country in terms of the number of people that the countries that we're living with somehow. We know that this is limited, and this is where the great battles are likely to take place. Pythagoras said that everything was in number, even today, when I listened to my colleagues and colleagues, there were a lot of mentioned numbers. I must say that at the same time as the process, as Comrade Terchoon mentioned that the bishops have increased, we are witnessing now that we are also independent of the expansion of other institutions, such as universities. Wherever a government team comes, they say you need your university, and the development will go. Now we have three, the fourth is private when we have 11 universities, although we will all be satisfied at local levels, but when you look at a list for 11 universities, where the quality and quality of the university is nowhere to be seen. We're now between Scylla and the Caribbean. To establish such landscapes that will be liked by people and where they will have the feeling that they will really co-decision in development, and in fact these regions will be so small that no one will take them seriously from the neighbours, for example, if they have the size of some slightly larger administrative unit and will thus be on the financial side, at the same time an inappropriate partner to negotiate with others. It must be said that one of the key battles will probably also be the battle for the number of provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to say that we are limited here in the slums; we have talked about this several times. Thus, we have a standard classification of territorial units in first place Slovenia, secondly probably internal, but European is not known, two cohesion regions should be, thirdly, if I understood the implementation of the Minister with the team, but we would only have our own provinces, where we now have 12 statistical regions. These things are very different in Europe. Look, on level one, level two and level three, it's just the state, and they have nothing else to do with Iceland, Liechtenstein and Cyprus. Where they are the first and second levels, the real state - and I have slightly older data - is Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, also small countries compared to us. Now, if I have understood the Minister correctly, we imagine that the development of Slovenia in this direction would be at the first level a country, at the second level, where it is now fighting the mills in Brussels to break up in two cohesion regions, and at the third level it would also take over under the law on coherent regional development of this province's development tasks. This is why we are somewhat indecisive in the development tasks or number of provinces, from the number two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, and the end - if we want to establish provinces or administrative units to be recognised through Eurostat, European statistics, as well. I think it would be good for statistics to cover a little bit with these administrative units. But for now, because we don't have a respected colleague and colleagues at this second level, we have nothing, but we have, I'd say, total powerlessness or the power of thefts or the community of somehow future regions to connect. As an example, last year there was a euro region that was supposed to connect Austria's Styria with our region in Slovenia. And the invitation, because we didn't have one of our own, was, with respectful greetings, who is invited to this conference, is Reinhold Kuhr, President of the Government of Austria of Styria, and Marjana Kreitner Lozina, Acting Officer, Maribor Development Agency. If you just look at the weight of each other trying to get some projects from the European Union, then the scale is far in favour of the people on the other side of the border. I've taken a lot of action here, too, so that the best number would be optimally three provinces. And of course, if these three provinces had succeeded, but probably not the previous and present government would not have succeeded in coming to a different level of statistics, statistical classifications of territorial units. I know that the government now has problems for these cohesion regions at a different level when it negotiates, even though it meets all EU standards, and I think it is precisely because of this, at least, of the people who have been here, that there will be no problems and we will probably only have two territorial units at the second level, which will be the basis for drawing cohesion funds from the EU in due course. I do not think it is necessary once again if, as we all agree so far to support the changes in the Constitution, we point out that there will be no easy way for us to establish, in fact, the provinces in the National Assembly, which will, as never before, relieve this strict decentralisation. In one part, I agree with my colleague Gabarr about the obvious, the country is to blame for everything, for all the good and for all the bad, and that many times for this infirmity there are also bad local policy moves that she has not done anything else. We can see this in the development of our cities, and I wouldn't mention two typical places where development went unheard of and everything else. Even without this model, there was something that could be done. I believe that this model will carry Slovenia forward. There's something else. That this knowledge has matured, it is also likely that we must be equal to the countries that are our partners in the EU, but it is also clear that there has been a realization that you cannot have only the work that is developed, which mainly requires money for the functioning of the government, or for the functioning of the fiscal policy of health, education, culture, science and beyond, but that we can all gain if we allow development in other areas as well. And the adoption of this part of the Constitution will allow for greater development in other parts of Slovenia, so I will gladly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u53	Dr. Slavinec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. I, too, agree that before changing the Constitution, it is necessary to think carefully. Consider carefully what this action will accomplish and whether it is worth changing the constitution for what we receive. The Constitution must certainly be that act which, as we have already heard in the National Assembly, is changing with a shaking hand. With the predicted change in the constitution before us, there are different expectations in different regions. In the province from which I come, expectations are great and we have long talked about them, we have long advocated for the establishment of the province, because we were confident that this would help to bring about a more coherent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia and the faster progress of Pomurje. We are aware, however, that the very establishment of the provinces does not guarantee this, but can enable and, on the other hand, accelerate the way certain powers from the countries come to the province and, of course, also from the municipalities up to the province. The transfer of powers, and I warn at this point, must also mean the transfer of personnel, as by the establishment of the provinces we must not be more liberalised, we must not create additional obstacles, tasks and matters that should be further regulated, but primarily rationalised, and in this way also rationalise the staff, move one of the state administrations down and the other from the municipal up. The latter can provide rationalization, since often tasks are duplicated, and often the work that congregations now do for themselves can be done more rationally if they work in one place. The second transfer of powers and tasks, and once again, I stress that this also makes staff, and from the country to the region, it is likely that it is possible to take more account of the specificities of the individual environment, of individual regions, and in this way to make the country not only more friendly for citizens, but also more effective. What are those things that we can expect from the establishment of the regions to indicate better? Surely these are all projects of a provincial nature, namely infrastructure, education, and, last but not least, we have witnessed difficult coordination in the field of culture and, above all, in the area of the economy that remains, and we must be aware of this, the basic generator of faster development. Another thing we should not forget is the more influential role of the landscapes in cooperation with the country. And if the provinces will be given such a role and, through positive discrimination, also the possibility and the guardian to better ensure faster development where necessary, in terms of ensuring more coherent development in the country, then this shaking deadline is significantly more peaceful in changing the constitution. I myself hope that this step will justify the weight, as I initially said, of changing the constitution and we will be able to achieve these goals, which I have highlighted and which people in the provinces not only deserve, but also with great expectations await us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. A while ago, and even to the present and future, my forerunners walked. I myself would like to somehow go beyond that period until 1994, when the arrangement was different. From 1994 until now, however, it is a process of local self-government, which is still ongoing and which, with the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we want to conclude at this second level with the draft constitutional law. It is very important for me to stress here that a compromise has been reached since 2005 and we are also considering this compromise proposal today. From the establishment of congregations, which are somehow linked also to the establishment of the provinces, all those negative views that some are concerned about today must be excluded. Why? However, the establishment of the congregations in the past was sometimes too serious, which contributed to the fact that congregations were established in some areas beyond the consideration of any specific or legal proposals. This error may today concern those who were somehow directly or indirectly responsible for such acts. As regards the duration of this government's performance in 2004, as we will also consider the proposal for a law establishing new municipalities at this meeting, it can be said publicly that no municipality or any proposal for a law establishing a municipality has been adopted without taking into account the criteria that we have adopted ourselves. It seems important to me here to emphasise that we are following the relevant legal provisions that we have adopted, and in this context I will now move on to how we will establish the provinces. Of course, it is to comply with some basic criteria, which will certainly be laid down by the law on the establishment of the provinces, where those provisions will have to be followed. It may seem to me that there may be too many unserious views as to whether we will now have 24 provinces, whether we will have 10 or will have 3 or whatever. It seems important to me that we follow that fundamental provision that we are actually making with the most important amendment to Article 143, which speaks of the provinces and where I think it is very important that these sovereignties and the decisions of the congregations be made on which province they want to be. This will be decided voluntarily by the congregations on the basis of their geographical and other position and, as a result, by what they want in this province. So, the number of landscapes today is an unprecedented story. Thus, there will also be a great deal of professional work and engagement to determine how much is needed or how many provinces we will have in the Republic of Slovenia, where their seats will be, what name it will be, and not least, what these tasks will be. As I come from places that have somehow been forgotten in the past from the city centre, I think it is very important when we are talking about regionalisation today and, as a result, we are talking about decentralisation of the country as such. Here, in my personal opinion, the dilemma has to be ruled out when we talk about decentralisation, that the province assumes a role for which the state will not provide financial resources or that individual civil servants will be given a new job or that the number of employees in the public administration will increase. That would be a mistake. If I simplify this, I imagine this by taking for example the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, one official working in the field of subsidies. When the establishment of the province occurs and this activity is transferred to the province, this specific official shall be transferred to the province. This shall transfer the staff member’s employment on the one hand and, on the other hand, shall automatically be guaranteed a source of funding. When we talk about coherent regional development, what this envisaged regionalisation undoubtedly brings, we must take into account what some may have overlooked today. If I recall correctly, there was a speech about the government visiting Pomour, and the Prime Minister has promised something that is not being realized. You know, you need to be honest and realistic. I know these places myself, I know Pomurje and it would be very unfair for those who care that Pomurje gets new dimensions. In order to increase economic growth, fundamental conditions must first be ensured. Aren't roads being built in Prekmurje today? Oh, my God! All preparations are rushed to be on the short run, if they are not already on the road. The railway infrastructure has also provided for significant means of improving rail infrastructure in the budget adopted in this Assembly for 2006-2007, and consequently all that this basic infrastructure entails. To conclude, the establishment of the provinces is therefore also one of these urgent steps towards achieving the coherent regional development that I spoke about earlier. The provinces would also facilitate the link between Slovenia and the EU, in particular with regard to a more successful candidate for EU funds from the Structural and Cohesion Fund to promote coherent regional development and would facilitate cross-border cooperation between local and regional communities. Therefore, I think it is very important to stress here when we are talking about regionalisation, that we will take account of the southern European border and that maybe some province will round up this southern European border and thus create the conditions for cooperation or a significant shift towards cross-border cooperation, particularly when we are talking about the southern European border. With the establishment of the landscapes, I also see the possibility of more coherent regional development, because it is precisely this more coherent regional development that hurts me a lot when I think of the places, whether Ribnica or Kočevje or Koroško or not Prekmurje, and the places where I come from, from Haloz, i.e. from an area where there are some 300 households in these less developed areas of Haloz, in the mountainous region, in order to join the public water pipeline, whose own participation was paid two years ago, but the country, due to procedures, may not have been able to provide any red tape, although the envisaged state resources are also in this budget that we have adopted, and their own participation, which they have contributed two years ago. We may also reduce this unnecessary bureaucracy, which today is much more than an obstacle, rather than aiding the real place, to develop the environment more quickly. I hope and wish that even in the place where I come from, I would feel this landscape with its seat in the oldest Slovenian city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected minister with coworkers, respectable colleagues, colleagues! Like the position of our Group, I do not oppose the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution. However, I must say that there are also a number of questions or a number of concerns about the establishment of the provinces, as there is still a lot of confusion. If we today knew clearly what powers future provinces would have, whose original tasks, which were delegated by the State, would certainly be easier to discuss these important things. Today, too, the Minister has repeatedly told his fellow Members and Members that decentralisation is urgently needed in order to implement the law on coherent regional development. I'm sure there's a lot of truth here. But I have my own doubts about today's state of affairs as to how this law, which we have adopted, is being realized. We know that some of the 12 developmental statistical regions from a legal or political point of view also work. Unfortunately, however, I must note that in these so-called statistical regions, the so-called centres are the main focus on the development of these centres or centres. Here I have a thought about future landscapes, that we will not be using this decentralisation, which, among other things, the Minister has mentioned, that we will be strengthened by the so-called provincial centres and that we will not forget about the countryside. If that happens to us, then I can say with certainty today, and we will then also find that this is not a realisation of the law on coherent regional development. I hope that the establishment of the provinces will not take on the authority of the congregations. Today, too, it has been heard that in the future the regional interests, regional projects, will be realized. That is true, and I must also tell you where the municipalities have been able to agree, and also some regional projects have been carried out or are being carried out, especially in terms of landfills, cleaning facilities, without any strong bureaucratic apparatus that would cost so much and so much financial resources, which is certainly to be expected in the future, as the landscapes will certainly have to operate from this point of view. If we transfer the country's tasks to the provinces, we will certainly also have to provide financial resources. And that's actually a special chapter. I hope we can do this properly. Look, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing, because I've asked you several times, and I've never received a clear answer. The Law on the financing of municipalities has, among other things, a provision to provide 4% of the additional resources to so-called municipalities based on administrative units to municipalities, which is to say to those located in administrative units, to 8%. Otherwise, it lists some of the tasks to be performed by these congregations or to a greater extent than the rest of the congregations. I would like to say that we have never done anything to, above all, give the municipalities the authority of the state, but much has been said about it. And from that point of view, I think it's really unfair. The municipality, which is located in the administrative unit, because these are in most cases larger municipalities, has a guaranteed consumption of a billion tolars, which means 40 million more funding for them. This means that only five, six people can be employed from this address. Are they really carrying out tasks other than those of the other congregations, but today we can ask ourselves. I think it is right that this is also said in the debate on such important issues that await us in the future. And I also personally believe that if we are able to properly agree on what tasks should be transferred to future provinces and, above all, what is most important, which we always advocate in our Group, that financial resources should also be clearly defined, then this project will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am aware and we are all aware that changing the Constitution is a sensitive subject and requires thorough reflection. As a result, the amendment of the Constitution has been preparing several mandates, not just for a few years. And all these attempts so far have led to a realization that we have stopped and that I am confident that we will get the necessary consensus in this national assembly. The fact is that the Constitution is not an ordinary law and that the changing of the Constitution is really necessary when it is absolutely necessary, and not to say so, for every fictitious thing that does not suit anyone. For a long time, the existing constitutional regime has also tried to achieve an appropriate result, or the establishment of landscapes in Slovenia, but obviously because of different, including local interests, not only political interests, it has not occurred or could not happen, and in our opinion it is also the only one that will bring certain results or on the basis of which it will be possible to establish a province. In previous mandates or in the previous mandate, as many remember, efforts have been made, there have been major discussions on this subject, and the government has already been preparing certain grounds in the previous mandate for how powers from the country would be transferred to the provinces. That is why I do not agree with my colleague, Mr Pecett, who, in the opinion of the Group of Members, gave, as an example, the Ministry of Transport, where I was in the previous term, that this was one of those who did not make a proposal. On the contrary, we have been one of the few that we have proposed, whose tasks in the field of the ministry can be transferred to the provinces and what money is also needed in the framework of the budget, which is necessary for this area, by carrying out all these tasks, management, individual infrastructures, etc. So even here, sometimes I cross the line with back-up attacks and convictions, they don't possibly hold back. It is clear, however, that there is a need to reach a compromise, a political consensus, and I am pleased that this is also happening with today's concluded debate, although I am not optimistic that it will be easy to draw up other laws that are bound by many interests and many lobbying and pressure, etc. I am confident that despite the difficulties that we will be able to resolve this matter at the next stage. However, I expect all these laws, which are bound by the change of constitution or the establishment of the provinces, to be prepared, coordinated and adopted in a package. This is the only way I can get the right result at all, so we have the powers, the funding and the establishment of individual areas and seats, etc. I expect that, especially in this work, in the next step, in the next phase, the work will be more difficult, but I think that the thing is so far away that we can do it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just asked my associate to tell you that I wanted to give up my discussion in this part. But now that I have my word, that's all I'd say. For these changes in these articles concerning the provinces, I am therefore very busy, among other things, because I also have my own experience. During the 1996-2000 term, my former fellow Member, Jelko Kacin, the mayor of the municipalities of Gorenje and other factors of local self-government, and I proposed that we reach agreement within Gorenje and propose the establishment of a Gorenje province. This would, for example, be an example of the establishment of a landscape from below. But my experience was very sad. Apart from those mayors who were of the LDS type and perhaps some other independent kind, others viewed this proposal as a matter of prestige and therefore they cannot follow such a proposal. This was a very good example of the situation where it is actually difficult to realistically expect proposals from the bottom up across Slovenia to set up specific landscapes. This was also a demonstration of the fact that Article 143 of the Constitution was not actually appropriate. Even when I remember how we reached this article in 1991 in the Constitutional Commission at the last minute, perhaps even with a fig in our pocket, it is clear that, on the basis of this article, it was not possible to establish the provinces of Slovenia on its own. It follows from this that it is necessary to amend this Article of the Constitution in such a way that it will also be a whole country's project. This debate has raised views, views on everything, so to speak, from Adam and Eve, and we are likely to come up with such discussions when the government comes up with a concrete proposal of appropriate proposals. It is likely, though I am sure that the Minister has already heard all these concerns and suggestions, but it is good that he hears them perhaps again, because he is now on board to prepare the relevant laws that are urgently needed, so that we can then bring to life the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution. And given the fact that those laws will also have to be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, there is also an already built-in fuse and a guarantee that it will actually have to reach consensus as much as possible. That'd be the end of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you. Does he still want a representative of the government? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u64	I've spoken to him several times and we've explained some things across the way. Perhaps he would still touch on the story of regionalisation, because at first sight it is quite complicated for us. Many times regionalisation is mixed, which is for the purposes of the European Union by the establishment of landscapes, which is in fact a purely domestic story, and the purpose of establishing landscapes is decentralisation. Of course, it is necessary to strictly separate the establishment of landscapes from the establishment or establishment of cohesion regions and statistical development regions at the level of NUC2 and NUC3, which are, in fact, administrative in nature and are placed primarily for successful regional development and will enter into force, at least in those cohesion, only in the next financial perspective. I certainly believe that the solution taken by the government in this area was the right one. I repeat, however, that we must not mix this work with the establishment of the provinces. The purpose of the provinces is different. The internal story, the purpose of the landscapes is to establish a word in the right sense, including during this political work, and contribute to the further development of Slovenia, which is of course very important. The question whether or not the Directives of the European Union apply. It is quite clear that Slovenia must and will act within this framework in accordance with these Directives, and will now take advantage of those options which, last but not least, enable them in this area of the Directive. I would like to stress once again that the purpose of this decentralisation of the country is to accelerate coherent regional development, and I must stress in particular that I welcome the efforts made in this work to come up with this compromise proposal, which is certainly a milestone in establishing the provinces after my assessment. I hope and believe that this effort will also be made in the next step, when it is necessary in the National Assembly to confirm the entire package of legislation, which will then also put the provinces in the place they are going or the place that we all probably want. I would therefore point out once again that the Government's serious intention is to establish landscapes in the right sense of the word, and that is why the Government fully supports this compromise proposal for proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Law of the EPA 317. The proposal to initiate the procedure for the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Darjo Lavtijar Bebler. The proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure was treated by the Constitutional Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. I ask the representative of the Government whether he wishes to explain his position at the beginning of the hearing. [[No, no, ……]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler, do you want to be a proponent? I got a message you didn't want; it was obviously wrong. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Actually, I'd just like to highlight a few sentences. Everything I said at the previous item in the agenda on behalf of the LDS Club of the Member States also applies to this proposal, where I am first signed. In doing so, I would like to stress the following. Even in the proposal that we have just considered, paragraphs 121 and 140 of the proposal, where I am signed, are completely identical. Article 143 is essentially the same, it is only slightly clearer and even more appropriate for the constitutional text. We support that proposal that we have just considered. With these changes we want to perform in a state-of-the-art way, our prestige is not predominant. Our main interest is to remove constitutional obstacles that have made it difficult to establish the provinces so far. And we welcome the fact that we have been able to reach a joint so-called compromise proposal. Now I also say that I am giving up the debate on behalf of the Member's Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Of those present, Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! Today there has been a lot of talk about the change in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, many times this compromise has been made and it seems very important to us that we have reached this compromise proposal. There is little to add to the proposal proposed by the first-signed Group of Members, except that we want to be a nation-building group, we want to contribute to the changes envisaged. However, we have received a compromise proposal; we are in favour of a compromise proposal, which is why we will not support this proposal of the Group of Members with the first signed Dara Lavtišar Bebler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This presentation is really a little overkill, unless we want to draw attention to something. What I would like to draw my attention to is the fact that we have had several suggestions that we have somehow managed to harmonise these proposals, and now those who were initially rejected support a new compromise proposal. In addition, it should be added that, apart from the fact that the government has talked about how we will decentralise, deconcentrate, how we can establish and so on, it has also said that it is in principle in favour of this proposal, which we are now talking about - the proposal of the 25 Members with the first signed by Mrs Lovtijar Beblereva, that it does not consider that this proposal is not responding to the essential dilemmas. If it were so that there were indeed substantial differences, then we could not claim that the proposal, which had already been adopted or previously addressed, had taken stock of what the proposal of the 25s had offered. The problem is that it's really hard to find any fundamental differences. I am of the opinion that there are no significant differences, so the government also supports the amendments to the two articles virtually in the same text, but there is a difference in one article. The difference that remains to be pointed out is only the difference between the adoption of a law on the financing of the provinces. This is the first proposal on a two-thirds majority, and in the second proposal this has resulted, namely a new proposal, the EPA 809 proposal no longer takes into account the need for funding, which is essential for the functioning of the provinces, to take into account the two-thirds majority of those present at that meeting of the National Assembly. I therefore believe that, in one part, the compromise proposal for the DeSUS Group is even slightly worse, and this is not why we would not therefore support the proposal that we already have, because the other differences are only in that the word 'wider' is omitted, that the word'may' be omitted, that in one part two paragraphs should be changed into one and that the plural should be transformed into one. Indeed, the immaterial changes and the peaceful souls themselves could have supported this proposal at the time, so it is probably right to say that the proposal we are talking about has been on the road and that, therefore, those who have prepared it have also been given proper thanks for their willingness to compromise.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u72	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to have come up with an acceptable proposal, which we have considered following the previous item on the agenda. I am sure that the proposal with the first signed colleague Mrs Darjo Lavtijar Bebler and her colleagues contributed to this. As my colleague Rezman said before me, I think they too are going to thank the other parliamentary groups that we have been looking for a common solution that can really only be a dot, a comma or a changed word in some parts. In fact, it is also up to the derogation of the applicants with the first signed by Mrs Darjo Lavtijar Bebler, if with a slight need, because the question is whether we would get a real constitutional two-thirds majority in the law on the financing of municipalities. For this reason, I hope that, at the next items of the agenda, we will also be looking for the best solution, or solution, which will receive a sufficient number of votes in the future. That is why we will also support the proposal of the Constitutional Commission that this proposal, with the first signed by Mrs Darjo Lovtišar Bebler, is not suitable for further discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Bajc, he's giving up. Mr. Rezman, do you want to do it for yourself? [[No, no, ……]] The next present, Mr. Moge. He's quitting. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this proposal is as powerful as the past. It appears that there is a positive solution that we will be able to make a deal for citizens and citizens and agree on it. Obviously, this need, as far as I know, also occurs at the local level, because, of course, we are now both Members and mayors or representatives of the municipalities communicating in different forms of development and this negotiation will be possible and the conversation can be brought to the regional level and more, I would say, formally arranged, if we can also guarantee adequate finances and competences. However, we have a great deal of responsibility in this law to politicians, so that we can bring this matter to life, as well as the great danger and the fear that we will also spoil this matter for politicians if there is more politics there than there are other content. When I think about these things and about regionalism and also the establishment of a number of small congregations, I could say that many small congregations are like sheep that have spread out in the pasture, but these newly created provinces can still be represented by a strong barrier, that the matter does not get too out of control and that we can talk about it. I hope that we will successfully support the matter in these first steps, but there will be important further steps in which we will determine the content, rather than the actions that we are going to take today. But I'll be happy to support the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marinic, do you want to do it for yourself? [[No, no, ……]] Does Mr. Secretary want some more? [[No, no, ……]] Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, we will decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Republic of Slovenia's constitution law. Given that we are in a hurry and the fourth point is on the table, I am unexpectedly interrupting the debate or sitting for 8 minutes. We'll continue the session at 1:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u76	We are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, amendment 83., 100. and 167. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed France Tsukati. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the proposal. Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u77	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which we are considering under point 4, was created as a compromise proposal. After the debate on the Constitutional Commission had shown that the proposals put forward did not enjoy sufficient support for Members and Members, although most members agreed that Member immunity should be re-arranged, we have sought a compromise solution in the Constitutional Commission, together with representatives of the two groups of proponents, Mr Miran Porc and mags. Mr Branko Grims and the members of the section of the Constitutional Commission on the field of parliamentary immunity. During the first four discussions, with the assistance of the section members and with the previous guidance of the groups of Members, we developed the following guidelines. Firstly, the basis for regulating the immunity of Slovenian Members should be Article 9 of the Seventh Protocol of the European Constitution, which regulates the immunity of European Members. Another time. The procedural immunity of Members should therefore be fully eliminated and the substantive immunity should be extended by excluding, in addition to the criminal liability of Members, and by initiating proceedings against them for an opinion or a vote given in the exercise of the parliamentary function. Third time. With a view to eliminating the procedural immunity of Members, as well as the members of the State Council and the judges of the Constitutional Court, the provisions on the body which decides on this immunity have become unnecessary and the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 100 and the second sentence of Article 167 of the Constitution should therefore be deleted. During the coordination, Dr Slavko Gaber, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, suggested that material immunity should not include regret and that this exception should only apply to the Member's civilian responsibility. To this proposal, you have also identified yourself as a group of Members who, with the exception of the SD Group of Members and DeSUS, have refused that supplement. In order to obtain sufficient support for the proposed amendments to the Constitution, the proposed appendix is not in the text of the amendment to the Constitution. This appendix can, as well as other proposals, be the subject of a debate on the Constitutional Commission when and when the constitutional audit procedure for the attached compromise solution to the amendment of the Constitution in the field of immunity is launched. The compromise proposal, without the addition of the LDS Club, was offered to Members for signature on 10 October 2005. On 19 October 2005, the SDS Group proposed to re-examine the content of the preliminary provisions of the draft constitutional law before submitting a compromise proposal to amend the Constitution. Therefore, the search for a compromise solution continued. In two coordinations, on 8 November and 21 December last year, the representatives agreed that only a transitional provision of the draft constitutional law should be amended in such a way that the amendment to the Constitution would continue. However, as regards the decisions of the National Assembly on the recognition of procedural immunity adopted prior to the entry into force of the constitutional law, they shall remain in force. In all others, however, the solution originally offered remained unchanged. On 21 December, the proposal was thus forwarded to Members of Parliament and Members for signature. As I received the signatures of 60 Members and Members who became co-sponsors of the proposal to amend Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution until 10 January, I, together with the co-signatory, tabled a proposal to initiate the constitutional review procedure, which you also received by letter of 12 January this year. I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the proposal submitted for amendments to Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution and, after the discussion has been concluded, follow the proposal of the Constitutional Commission and support the decision to initiate the procedure for these constitutional amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Commission, Dr Slavko Gabra, to present the report of the Commission. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u79	Mr Vice-President, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! At its 1st meeting, on 25.2., on 24.3.2005 and on 8.1.2006, and on 3rd meeting, on 12.4.2006 and on 11.5.2006 thereafter, the Constitutional Commission considered a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members of Parliament on 7.12.2004 with the first signed Meran Porč. Proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law, as well as a proposal tabled in the procedure by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Branko Grims and the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law, which was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed France Tsukati, on 11.1.2004, and this proposal has just been presented. For the general debate, the Constitutional Commission has received a written opinion from the Council of State, which does not support the proposal for amendments to the Constitution, as well as the opinion of the section of the previous term of office of the National Assembly, which responds to some of the dilemmas of the constitutional proposals submitted by the first-signed colleague, Mr Porč or Mag. Branca Grimes. When it was found that neither the first nor the second proposal received sufficient support for the admission to the National Assembly or for the amendment of the Constitution, a series of talks had already been held, as the President had already explained, in order to reach a compromise solution to amend the Constitution. This compromise was sought with the assistance of the expert group on the Constitutional Commission on the field of parliamentary immunity, and such a proposal was finally sought. The new compromise proposal, the first to be signed by the President of the Constitutional Commission, France Tsukati, stems from two basic guidelines, first of all from the exclusion of procedural or non-professional immunity, which means that it is not possible for a Member to conduct criminal proceedings and a slightly clearer regime of professional, material immunity, by extending it to liability. The compromise proposal was supported by members in the general debate and they therefore propose to the National Assembly that the procedure for amending Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia be opened. However, they reject the proposal to amend Article 83 and the proposal to delete it from the Constitution by not voting in favour of starting their constitutional audit procedure, which is also, of course, a logical consequence of the compromise settlement agreement. In the light of the decisions taken, the Constitutional Commission has moved to examine the draft constitutional law to amend the provisions already mentioned in Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution and to prepare the views of the Constitutional Commission until the said draft constitutional law. Two concerns were raised in the debate, which together with the whole discussion were detailed in the report of the Constitutional Commission. The LDS Group expressed its concern about the extension of professional immunity by extending it to compensation liability and its concerns in relation to Articles 63 and 83 of the existing and future constitution. This first point, which is now materialised in the draft position on the draft constitutional law, has been endorsed by the Constitutional Commission, with a two-thirds majority of its members present, and proposes to be accepted by the National Assembly, with a majority of the votes of all Members, as an obligation for the Constitutional Commission to examine this possibility of restriction and, if necessary, include it in the text of a proposal for a constitutional law. The second proposal has not been adopted and this is also the basis for our vote today on these proposals. This report also applies to the second two points, where we reject the first two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u80	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. With regard to the timing of the debate at this item on the agenda, I would remind you that, in the first part of the discussion of this item on the agenda, we will only hold a debate on the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure. The point will then be suspended and, in the context of the votes, we will first take a decision on the decision to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure. If the National Assembly adopts the proposed decision, it will immediately proceed with the debate on the draft constitutional law and on the position of the Constitutional Commission. This debate will be held within the framework of the available time, which will remain at the disposal of individual participants in the item. Please take this into account in the debate. If you want to discuss the position of the Constitutional Commission and the amendments to this position later on, save yourself the time. I give the word "magic." Mr Žnidarsic to present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u81	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group will support the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law concerning parliamentary immunity and, of course, the immunity of judges. The proposed amendment concerns both procedural immunity and the part of immunity that concerns civil law relations. The demands for constitutional changes became more serious when Members, on the basis of civil convictions for their work, realized that their immunity did not extend to civil law. Thus, the question began to be raised as to where freedom of speech or debate is concerned if there is a possibility of civil liability for being expressed in Parliament. The proposed amendment removes the civil immunity of members of the State Council and the Constitutional Court and extends their substantive immunity to exclude indemnity in addition to criminal liability, as well as the initiation of proceedings against a Member for an opinion or a vote given by him in the management of his office. In our Group of Members, we believe that the extension of substantive immunity is necessary, since only by doing so will freedom of speech, expression and vote be exercised to the greatest extent possible. We estimate that the culture of behaviour of people elected as a Member of the Council of State or a Judge is at such a level that, in Parliament itself and in other functions under this title, there will be no civil delicts, such as regrets, slanders, false accusations and the like, both in relation to other fellow Members or government representatives, as well as in relation to other citizens. Material immunity shall also be extended in the sense that it is not only related to the opinion or voice expressed at the meetings of the national assembly and its working bodies, but also includes the tasks and, of course, the opinions and views expressed by Members in the exercise of their duties in the wider area. Given that the Member's procedural immunity is being amended and abolished, and that the same immunity as Members of the State Council, the judges of the Constitutional Court, enjoys this also results in the abolition of the procedure concerning the recognition of immunity, both as members of the State Council and as members of the Constitutional Court and Members. Members of the DeSUS believe that the proposed Institute of Immunity will more effectively and comprehensively ensure the protection of politically exposed officials from possible abuses by individual authorities, in particular that the bodies of repression will not be abused as means of political conflict and pressure, so we will certainly support the proposed constitutional changes in this regard. Of course, we will also support the proposed supplement that takes immunity for infringements, the prohibitions set out in Article 63 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and we believe that this change in the immunity of those potential offenders will be resolved in a solid manner, particularly because it is comparable to the solutions in the still invalid Constitutional Treaty for the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting. In view of the fact that there was already a somehow united report by the Constitutional Commission and the LDS Group, at least in the second part of that presentation, I think I can start in essence. Look, when we're talking about immunity, I think it's wrong today to talk about parliamentary immunity. The constitutional debate that has been going on for more than a year now shows that we should really talk about the immunity of the judges of the Constitutional Court. As long as it was only about parliamentary immunity, I would remind you, the term "national shame" for immunity was used in public discourse and some similar expressions. But the moment that the journalist is Dinner, after some conversation with me, she announced that because of the regulation of our constitution, which also refers to the regulation of parliamentary immunity in constitutional judges, it also applies to constitutional judges, and all of this changed overnight. The same authors in the same media wrote a few days later about immunity as about civilization's acquisition. Interestingly, I have to say, this says a lot about the whole story, but it certainly makes it very clear where the core of the whole problem is. The story itself, you know, went on to say that, according to a public opinion poll that was repeatedly presented in relation to the discourse that I described in the initial phase, we also proposed what we all really wanted. On the initial more compromise proposal, we briefly and slightly proposed deleting all immunity, this is a fair way for Members to align themselves with all other citizens, but then in the debate it was very quick to show that those who spoke the most about the marriage of immunity were not even prepared to support such a proposal. The pronunciation, which is then very common, if this profession is completely uniform, etc., is likely to be quite clear according to the situation in Slovenia. Then we lost a year to talk, or we used it to talk, depending on the point of view. The result is right in front of us. There is a compromise text before us, which has barely gathered 60 votes, so I think it is worth working with with the utmost care that this does not go away, because there is something very clear to say. If we do not reach an extremely strong consensus on any further amendment, then the choice is only one: whether a compromise text will be adopted or everything else will be the same. I hope this is clear enough, given the dilemma that is now ahead of us. From this point of view, I must say that I am surprised that, because of the way in which the two decisions were to be joined together, this is how this was presented, it happened on the Constitutional Commission when the decision was taken to take a further look. Now, here's a little bit of an explanation for why this story is going on. At the time of that one - year conversation in the early part of the year, as soon as we won a team of experts along with us, we have already looked very closely at this matter. Later this review was repeated several times. Various groups of constitutional experts, professors of constitutional law examined this and found out. In fact, in this last proposal, the LDS, to emphasise this, proposed three different things: a review of the possibilities of international contracts, a review of the impact of violations of Article 63 of the Constitution of Slovenia, and a third thing is compensation responsibility. What has been proposed with regard to compensation has proved to exist only in the constitution of an old member of the European Union, which is in the German Constitution. A special exception, i.e. the exclusion of compensation for insulting charges, is in practice something that is very well heard, and in fact it proved to be the case in this professional review, this was confirmed not only by one professor of constitutional law, but by all of whom we have discussed that this is a provision that does not work in practice in Germany. In fact, they had a number of procedural complications on this subject, and a single single procedure was reported during the postwar period, which is the German Constitution, which is said to have been initiated on this basis, and then, as I was told, it was also reported at the official meeting, so that it is official information, and it was not condemned. This is said to be a provision that has caused some problems, but it is not effective. Besides the beam, it is interesting to note that in some sense the word was already an integral part of the constitutional regime of immunity. Did you notice that? Or has this ever prevented inappropriate words from being uttered in this national assembly? As far as I can remember, they were all said, otherwise we couldn't talk about them. It is said that the preventive effect of such measures is nothing again. So in this part we are completely comparable to Germany. Of course, this is a topic on which cheap political points can be nicely acquired, even to gently undermine Parliament's reputation, if much is discussed, but there is something else to be done about this topic. The third story, which is open here, is the question of spreading intolerance. This is a matter expressly prohibited by the Slovenian Constitution in its 63rd Article. Here is my personal position, which I checked with many professors of constitutional law at the time, that it is right that such a provision applies independently of whether it is specifically mentioned as an exception. Later, however, many professors of constitutional law convinced me that it would be reasonable to take this into account and include it in the constitutional text, because this would help to make the constitutional text more clear, especially if it would occur under certain specific conditions - let us hope that this would never happen, but it should also be counted with this possibility - to examine whether there is something in this lack of intolerance or not. In doing so, we also need to know what a lack of intolerance is. This is certainly not a matter of sending someone for a review, and half a metre more or less is not essential, but it is a matter of a systematic, deliberate appeal to violence against a particular group, either on the basis of some personality characteristics, gender-based or political beliefs. This is in fact the legal definition of intolerance and it is a very strict concept, but when it comes to it, the country is also entitled to act. By the way, this is also the reason for the removal of a political party from the register, which is decided by the Constitutional Court in the proceedings. That is why in our parliamentary group, in agreement with the other coalition groups, we have proposed that, in fact, because there is obviously a dilemma still in the constitutional profession, it should be examined in detail and perhaps this should be included in the text of the constitutional law as a special exception. Personally, I must say that the arguments presented to me in the past days have convinced me. But everything else, as I said, is absolutely clear for the constitutional profession and, I say, for everyone who thinks honestly with this change. If we are to reach a text on which sufficient consensus will be reached, then it is pointless to re-examine things that have already been checked several times by experts in the past year. This is us stalling, and time certainly is already working against the possibility that anything will change. We know that there has already begun to be renewed concerns about infringement of the Constitution in this area and of many others. That's why I think it's good to hurry. However, who thinks that something really needs to be sharpened, then everything will be equalized, has no doubt the possibility that he will vote in favour of our proposal later on when he votes in favour of eliminating immunity. Then the masks will fall and you will see who is actually in what position. But whoever supports the compromise proposal, we supported it by all those who signed it, let them vote in favour. I'll be happy to do it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr Slavko Gaber will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u85	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Group, we understand our discussions on the amendment of the Constitution in Article 83 and, as a consequence, in some other articles as an important shift in thinking about addressing the issue of immunity in that country. Like everyone else, we welcome the restriction of procedural, non-professional immunity, and we think that this opinion is also a citizen and a citizen. While we have already had a preliminary debate on our position here, let me say very directly that we doubt and think that the majority of citizens and citizens of this country have doubts about the need to maintain immunity in material immunity for compensation for words spoken in this national assembly and, in doing so without measure, which offend other people who particularly insult citizens and citizens who cannot respond to this possible insult. This can be discussed in several ways. We've heard one before. But the fact is, and this is shown by the studies that have been done for this Parliament, that out of 25 countries in the EU there are 10 of them who have in one way or another a limited right of Members and Members to speak in a way that would offend another, and that would have no consequences, so it would not be possible to start proceedings against them. These countries, colleagues and colleagues are Germany, England, Denmark, Greece, Sweden, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland. Slovenia would therefore join these countries. I think that this is a completely respectable society that points out that this issue is not simply a matter of resolution. If we want a good Parliament, a good special name for Parliament, we should think about it further. It does not claim that this mechanism is not effective. For the true logical masterpiece is to say that all the words in Parliament that have been spoken have been spoken. It's very logically marked in a very specific way. It is clear that they have been spoken, but the talk is not about the words that have been spoken, but it is about people who, if they know that they can answer for their actions, think before they speak. This is the purpose of such clauses. Germany is of the view that it does not consider that this article should not be applied there and that there should never be a discussion of how to act in cases of immunity. During the previous term of office, the Election Control Committee had the immunity and rules of procedure of the German Bundestag totalled 128 sessions, of which 50 were immunity. And two proposals were submitted between 1994 and 1998 for the confiscation of material immunity due to delicts of expression. Three such proposals were made during the period 1998-2000. All these proposals were discussed in the Bundestag. Why were they arguing? Because they felt that the Members had gone too far in their statements, they were simply too far away in their actions. That's possible, ladies and gentlemen! It may be an abuse of the parliamentary function, I am not saying that it should be, but just that we believe that someone will not, for the founder and for the legislator, is not enough. We are therefore convinced in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that it shows support for the proposal to do so, and so the Constitutional Commission has also decided to give further consideration to this issue The best possible formulation has been chosen, because we do not want to blackmail in this process, but if it is possible to gather together so much power to seriously ask what harms Members and Members, if they are considered not to be able to malign and not to hope to prove it even before a court. If you claim that someone has made material use of himself if you claim to have abused his position, for example as mayor of a congregation or as a citizen of this country, why are we afraid to face this claim if someone asks us to prove it to the court? That's what the story's about. And just as the fact that it is necessary to protect a Member and a Member for this, whenever he speaks and reveals certain irregularities in society, whenever he speaks in the interest of citizens and citizens, it is very likely that citizens and citizens should also be protected from the forgetfulness of themselves when we are released from control and say things that we have no proof of, and others insult. I don't need that kind of immunity, and I don't think anyone in this national council needs it. However, we need immunity, which enables us to speak and reveal irregularities in specific areas, and someone could prevent us from doing so. That's what we're talking about. There's no games here. No other games in this area, not on our side! I think it's the whole structure around the constitutional court at the border of understanding. We will therefore support what the Constitutional Commission has proposed, and we expect this agreement to be the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, and we want the necessary majority of the proposal put forward by the Constitutional Commission. At the meeting of the Constitutional Commission, after all the efforts we have made with the President of the National Assembly to achieve the right text, I have even been optimistic that there are serious possibilities and that there is a serious will to do so. The more I listen to the opening presentations, even though I know I can't and will not argue with them, the more I read the amendments tabled, the more I think I don't know how many times we're going back to the beginning. That is whether we are ready to seriously discuss and change parliamentary immunity. We are still prepared for this in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and we want that. I would therefore like to point out that we were one of those who we felt was worth speaking about the resolution of parliamentary immunity in the current constitution, and that is only because of the problems we had in this regard in the national assembly and in the national world. Nothing else. Everything else is fiction that I just don't understand and at the border, I'd say, fantastic. In the case of others, except in the National Assembly and in particular in the Council of State, where immunity was granted also for questions which had no connection with the function and work of a Member or a Councilman, they were only there. These problems, and the immunity thus granted, have, in the conviction of Members and Members of the Social Democrats, justified the discomfort and disapproval and criticism between citizens and citizens. And such cases have justifiably constituted an abuse of the right of immunity to a personal advantage, not in the function of the institution for which this immunity is established historically and even today. It would protect the possibility that decisions should be taken to ensure that the Member and the Councilman, as well as the Constitutional Judge, are normally not responsible for the vote or opinion given in the exercise of his or her duties and powers. If I should not have said so, I should not have done so. Our first idea in the parliamentary group was, therefore, to preserve only so-called material immunity, to say immunity, expressed for voice or opinion in the work of the national assembly, and only criminally, to remove procedural immunity, which protects a Member and a Member in respect of conduct that is not related to work in Parliament, but to conduct that is in his personal sphere that can occur as with any other citizen, and there is no reason for a traffic, property, blood and similar delict, as defined by the criminal code, to be more protected than any other citizen. However, since the suggestions and concerns raised against this proposal were given in later discussions in this National Assembly and it has been pointed out that this proposal will not receive a 2/3 support if we do not include at least the compensation liability for the vote or opinion expressed during the work of the National Assembly, we were prepared to include this in the proposal. And the same according to its content, although otherwise formulated as ours, is also a substantive day today. We are personally convinced that there is no reason not to talk about the urgent need to protect a Member just for work in Parliament, but not for anything else. I have to say, personally, I have no fear of deciding whether to remove immunity altogether, but I must say that those who might suggest it forget that then would be one of the few, if not the only, countries that do not have immunity at all, perhaps the most democratic, but perhaps the other way around, the country that Parliament also thinks that immunity should be completely abolished because it is so badly abused by Members, which I do not want to be a general impression, and I hope that those who do not want to say so will also be fully aware of the removal of immunity. However, I am not afraid of such a solution because I cannot imagine that any time in this country, after the independence and even after the first democratic multilateral elections, there is still the possibility that someone would imagine that someone would be prosecuted for an opinion or a voice, which means because of his substantive decision, why he was in favour or against a law or why he was in favour or against an amendment, which is also a fundamental definition of material immunity. If anyone else imagines it, I hope it's just a fantasy, and it can't happen to anyone else in our country anymore. I think this also applies to the abuse of prosecution. It would therefore be right that we do not abuse the debate on immunity for each other's prestigious games, but that we are trying to make a proposal, as it is designed, accept it, and that I will be the only one to follow the President's suggestions on positions to discuss and decide later, which I will also do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution in those articles relating to immunity. Let me begin by saying that the New Slovenia Group has signed a proposal for the total elimination of immunity, but as we know, this proposal has not been supported, so today in the New Slovenia Group we support a compromise proposal that fully eliminates procedural immunity and broadens substantive immunity. The proposal to be addressed is better than the current regulation, since for the first time, it allows a Member greater freedom of speech, not only when he speaks at meetings of the national assembly or at meetings of working bodies, but also in the performance of his entire function. Secondly, because it prevents the abuse of immunity to avoid liability for crimes for which he, as any other citizen, could be tried. On the basis of a proposal against the Member, it will not be possible to initiate any procedure to investigate the compensation, administrative and other procedure for the opinion or vote given in the exercise of his post. Some in the debate so far or some have expressed concerns about where and how it will determine what the exercise of the post will involve. In the opinion of the experts, no constitution can lay down this, so the answer to this question and the question of what is the opinion or vote will have to be given by case law. As for the limitation of immunity due to resentment, the spread of intolerance and the like, let me say that we had no problems in Novi Slovenija or in our group. In our speeches, we never regretted or spread any intolerance. It is true, however, that both Members and voters of New Slovenia have received this from some fellow Members. The rules in force provide that a Member shall not be detained, nor be held against him, in so far as it refers to immunity, must not initiate criminal proceedings without the permission of the national assembly. The exception is only if he is caught in a criminal offence for which a prison sentence of more than five years is envisaged. It is also stipulated that the National Assembly may also grant immunity to a Member who has not been referred to it or who has been caught in the said offence. In doing so, let me say that Members of New Slovenia have never spoken or referred to immunity. Nevertheless, every time the court asked for an opinion or decision in this national assembly, which we find really pointless. However, this has been used by some to satisfy, for example, the personal interests of individuals and to avoid liability for actions. This is unacceptable in the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. That is also the attitude we have always advocated. However, the amendment makes it impossible to avoid judicial proceedings because it completely eliminates unprofessional or procedural immunity. When adopting the proposal, it is necessary to keep in mind that the members of the State Council and, in particular, the judges of the Constitutional Court have the same immunity as Members. As I said in the introduction, in the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party, we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, together with the majority of the members of this National Assembly, as well as the professional and political public, are of the opinion that the current regime of immunity of members of the National Assembly receives the most justified criticism and treatment, most of which due to abuse, either in the past times of individual members of the National Assembly as well as members or advisors of the State Council. Attempts to amend the Institute of Immunity, in particular procedural immunity, have been made since the adoption of the Constitution in 1991, but this has not been the case until today and we have several proposals at this meeting to amend Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which deals with the issue of parliamentary immunity. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support or vote in favour of a joint compromise on the draft constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which includes a solution from the proposal of the first-signed Mr. Miran Potrč and Mr Mag. Branka Grims, as well as the expert committee, as adopted by the Constitutional Commission. As we say, the Members of the Group will support the amendment of Article 83 of the Constitution, which completely eliminates the procedural immunity of Members and regulates substantive immunity slightly wider. The proposal itself also excludes the liability of Members of Parliament for an opinion or a vote, expressed not only at meetings of the national assembly, its bodies, but in full exercise of the parliamentary function. Since, under the current Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State and the Constitutional Judges have immunity, it is also necessary to amend Articles 100 and 167 of the Constitution, which regulate the procedural immunity of judges of constitutional courts or councilors of the State Council. Since we are Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we have also co-signed a proposal for constitutional regulation of this area, which would completely delete the provisions concerning parliamentary immunity, we will also unanimously support the Slovenian People's Party's Group's compromise proposal for a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which amends Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is Aurelio Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you, President. I myself will support, as has already been explained for our Group of Members, a compromise proposal, by also supporting the proposal for an additional decision by the Constitutional Commission. It is necessary to seek further ways of regulating immunity so as not to ensure that a Member is protected from lying or any insulting charges against someone who is not our colleague. We used to say that on our own on the Constitutional Commission, we're insured in such a way that we argue with each other. One accuses the other, of course, this one has the opportunity to respond to false or false allegations. But when we speak with our speakers about someone who does not have this opportunity and this right, we must protect him in so that he can respond, and his honor and name will be adequately protected. This compromise proposal of ours does not provide such guarantees, so it makes sense that we should make some effort, look at the extent to which, with what wording, we also protect a simple citizen and a citizen from the possibility - I do not want it, I do not cooperate with the debates which would accuse anyone of guilt, and I believe that most of us do not want it and do not use it. But there are times when passions are aroused when you get out of your mouth, a word that isn't appropriate and that puts things on someone that he's never done. This has happened before, this can happen again. How, then, if we put ourselves in the role of a citizen who looks at us and listens to us and is, at a certain point, the subject of our attention, in the role of someone who has never done what we read to him behind a pay phone. How should he respond? If the Member is protected from this and from it, of course, we have not done a good job. That is why I hope that, if there is a real desire to limit immunity, maximumly, I have sometimes been an advocate for the abolition of immunity, but I have been warned of the traps that are running here, so let us also look for a limit on this kind of possibility and danger. I think that we must, once again, protect not only our working conditions and have a place where we can say everything we are doing better, but that we will also be respectful of those who do not. Therefore, I will also support the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission, I hope that it will receive adequate support and that we will gain time on the Constitutional Commission to re-examine this situation and this situation with the help of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members' immunity could be said to be rising dust, but in this case it could not be said that it is a good horse that is being raised dusted, but this parliamentary immunity has become fully politicized, abused and also produced. Our fellow Member, Ivo Hvalica, was punished for the words spoken here in Parliament and, if you want, the one he spoke about was not, but he was able to protect himself and the Member was not protected. That says something, too. Of course, with our trial, of course, otherwise we can't. The way, the procedure that is now regulated or regulated by this immunity is essentially parody at such an institution of immunity. The fact is, none of us are colleagues, my colleagues, and I do not refer to immunity myself, but the procedure, as it is, works the way it works. And for every matter, and even if the Member does not refer to it, it must go through a mandate-holder commission and then the whole process in the National Assembly, which is now what I want to talk about, to be abused. A few months ago, when we started this constitutional change process, I listened on the radio at least ten times a day to the lynch of one of our fellow Members, who happened to him and did not refer to immunity, talked on the radio about it being discussed because he did this, that, that. It wasn't said, it was a suspicion, which it should be, but it did. Ten times a day five days a week. He was convicted of not saying anything else. Thank you very much. I'll say such immunity. That could happen to me. Why did this happen to him or anyone else, I don't know that. But that's what happened to him. I wouldn't want it for myself, and if we have that kind of immunity, I'll say, thank you very much, I don't want it. That's why I personally agree that immunity is completely erased. Because then, let's say, in this case, you couldn't drag me on the radio ten times a day for five days a week, and you could tell me what I did, not what I suspected I did, but what I did. That's the kind of immunity I need. And I'm agreeing that immunity is completely wiped out. And that is also, I think I have made clear in the debates on the Constitutional Commission, but if the general will or some effort is made to change this matter, to make things better, and to take care of something better together, then I will vote in favour of starting a process for something better. If there really isn't something that's much better, then I'll still agree to completely disappear. But if anyone else needs immunity, let them save it themselves, but not to save it at the expense of the Members, but they will still "igleish" us and lynch us on the radio, what we have done, and it has not been proven at all, but only to begin the process, to find out if we have done something like this. For such immunity, thank you very much. However, since I see that the majority will be in favour of something changing and that the procedure begins, I will support such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. When we talk about immunity, it is almost impossible not to think at the same time about all three proposals, although there is only one point. I think I will say in advance, support this proposal for change, and I am sure that support does not mean that, as some judge, we would no longer be discussing. This proposal, which will also receive my support, also has some shortcomings that I would like to draw attention to and some others have pointed out. If what we are pointing out is not accepted, this will not be the reason to reject the whole proposal, but it is only right to draw attention to something else. Especially because we seem to be all united in abolishing this procedural immunity, so that no one among us thinks that we would not be responsible for things that are going on outside of Parliament like all other ordinary people; and so here we are thinking the same thing. A few differences, however, occur in some other contexts where not everyone thinks quite the same. I am sure that it means extending to some shortcomings in compensation - to indemnity irresponsibility. This is partly problematic for me, among other things, because already the penal code allows for regret. These policies are not criminalised; they are for others, and they are not for politics. But they're criminal charges. So that's the difference. And I don't know why it wouldn't be strong enough to act in Parliament just to have parliamentarians insult each other, which allows for this criminal code. At this point, he allows it, but he does not allow slander and accusation. I would agree to this if it were possible to reconcile it between us, to limit ourselves in such a way that we do not have the right to scold, to slander and everything else, which the criminal code already prohibits. We do not need this, we can still be sufficiently reasoned, but we can hear it, unless someone wants to draw special attention in this way. The other thing that may also be a possible proposal for a debate is the commitment of irresponsibility to a function. I do not know if this is necessary, so that we, who are practically nonstop in office, must be burdened with these responsibilities. Does this mean that whenever we receive an invitation as Members or Members of Parliament, we are in office? When I go to the round table, when I go to the public stands, when I go to the village world or wherever I am, or am I always, I would say, "protected," so to speak, under the terms, with this compensation and other irresponsibility? Nor is that necessary in my opinion, and it would be sufficient, at least so I think, if we are protected here in Parliament, in the National Assembly, in the State Council, in our working bodies, in which we are elected to tell also what we are not comfortable with, that we will also oppose any claim that we will oppose what may not be the most appropriate. And it's only right that we're protected then. Not because we want to be individually protected, but because otherwise Parliament will not be able to function. If we're sentenced to another position, which we'll probably talk about when we talk about that proposal that proposes even removing immunity. I repeat that I personally intend to support this proposal. I also support some proposals for improvement. I think it is an improvement if we also talk about prohibiting the right to slander and similar delicts in Parliament, and I think that it is enough if we are protected in Parliament and in working bodies and not always and everywhere we perform our function.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u99	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Immunity is a problem. Members would probably say that if we wanted to react in a very open, clear and in some way reckless way, that we do not need immunity, that we do not need to know how to behave in such a way that we do not need it, nor do we need it procedurally or indemnity. But it's not like that! History has proven in these 15 years that there has been some use of professional process immunity, I will not say abuse, but people have used what they had at their disposal. Many times it has been said, and then the electorate will punish it after the term of office. No, they didn't usually punish them, but they rewarded them. There are always so many who see some special joy in this, so there is no special punishment here. That's why I'm also personally in favour of professional, procedural immunity. Because, after all, what a person does as a private person and what he does among other citizens as the same, he must, of course, be treated both for him and for all others. The other thing is that it concerns immunity, which allows, of course, insults, accusations, slanders - I will not say spreading hate speech, but the use of hate speech, because it is often true that maybe uncontrolled, but uncontrolled, because it is not in some way limited and because it is not punished. It would be good, however, to establish this clear and clean relationship between what is permitted or prohibited by Article 63 of the Constitution and, of course, between what prohibits and allows us Article 83 of the Constitution. This seems to me to be crucial, however, where it is necessary to establish a clear and clean relationship so that there will be no use or abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. He's quitting. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thanks again. It's just that I might remind my colleagues, in fact, we're talking about a commitment that we've also consolidated with signatures. Each, in my firm belief, further complication reduces the possibility that anything will change and everything will remain the same. What they are warning - and in this there is certainly some truth - is to be resolved differently, and we have all agreed on this once before, I hoped that this is also in some way already agreed. In fact, if someone speaks improperly or even slanders or, God forbid, offends, then, of course, it is necessary to cut down on funds that can be put into effect immediately. This is not some court procedure that then drags on for five years and then, perhaps after a Member has retired, it is literally impossible for him to live because he has been challenged by someone from the executive branch, which is already very strange at the principal level; but we are living in such a country by the way. The point is that if someone in the fire is simply discussing, the words - and Parliament comes out of the word 'paralea' to say, here should be the free space of the word - it should go too far, it should be stopped immediately, it should be warned immediately, and if it really goes too far, it should also be disabled immediately, so that it can continue. According to his household, he is given time to consider that passions are cooled down and that Parliament is functioning normally. This would certainly also help to enhance Parliament's reputation. The actions will certainly not contribute to Parliament's greater reputation in any way, so there is, I fear, a very wrong approach. This matter, which I am talking about, is the possibility of an immediate reaction, and the effective reaction of the leader of the sitting must and may be regulated in the Rules of Procedure. And so also parliaments, those with a long tradition, from, if you want, the United States Congress to what European Parliament, in fact, do so - that we Members are primarily responsible and belonging to the institution, of course, to the institution of Parliament. And this is also something that, I am firmly sure, strongly distinguishes, unfortunately, I will stress this, our Parliament from many parliaments of countries with a long tradition. For there is always the first membership of a Member of the institution. Every Member, for example, in the United States will strive to enhance the reputation of Congress as a legislator. Many times in these small conflicts, we are trying to gain some cheap political points, but on account of Parliament's reputation as a whole, and that is not right. This is the step that we must all take in order to have a greater reputation in the public. And this step, fellows, cannot be made by changing the constitution, cannot be written, determined, commanded in the constitution, but rather by raising the political culture, to which each of us can contribute as best as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and fellow Members! In fact, I personally believe that the abuse of immunity in the past has been limited. I remember one in the National Assembly and one in the State Council. In fact, in recent times, I must say that, in fact, none of the Members, we have often encountered this issue, has asked for immunity from the State. Nevertheless, we have repeatedly ruled on immunity on a proposal or a question of the courts and in some way informed the Slovenian public of purely ordinary matters that are actually happening to all citizens and citizens - so that someone is going to sue you. And even if you did not want this to be discussed in the National Assembly, the court turned and asked the National Assembly what it thought about immunity. Personally, I am convinced that this is the greatest reason for the Constitution to be reformed in such a way that Members will be aligned with other citizens in accordance with this principle. Therefore, there is no need for the National Assembly to decide on any issue of immunity if the Member does not refer to it. And this change goes in one part, as far as unprofessional immunity is concerned, in this direction. As for enlargement, however, what was problematic in the past in at least one case - I think that formerly, fellow Member Petan described the case of the former Member of Mr Hvalica - and this is also appropriate for what is said here to be extended in some way, although I agree with all those who have pointed out that it is not appropriate to talk about people who are not present. So you can’t blame anyone or accuse anyone if he’s not there and you can answer that question properly. But this is more a matter of personal culture and some generally recognized ethical standards. So you don't talk about people that aren't there. I would also like to reply to those who suggest that this immunity should, however, exclude the area of certain regrets and slanders. See, if you would accept something like this, then in fact, Members could have stopped communicating with each other in some way, because the threshold of tolerance for regret can be very different; which is an insult to someone else, there may be some purely normal work taken by the Member and you take it for a lease with the profession you are doing. For example, Mr Gaber has been very much in favour of this, but in the previous term, I recall that I myself have experienced two such things on his part, which could have been said to be an insult, but he obviously did not seem to have done so, so now that he has changed some of his views on this, it is good, but I think that it is more a matter of a personal culture, of a personal relationship to respect for this house than it would have been to write it into a constitution. Allow me to express my opinion on Article 63. I think that Dr. Kavčič is absolutely right here to point out that the doctrine of Article 63 is so clearly written and so powerful that it actually works on its own and that it does not need to be reintroduced into the very regulation of the immunity of a Member. After all, the court always decides on these matters in the end, and for one case at least, for example, in New Slovenia we know who ended up in court. It was when, in fact, according to Article 63, one of the fellow constituencies of the elector, Dr. Bernik, was identified as a nuisance which would have to be killed in 1945. This could, under Article 63, be regarded as hateful, impatient and I do not know what kind of speech or calling for something which is prohibited under Article 63. However, the court ruled in normal proceedings, if I recall correctly that that judgment did not apply to certain people, and that this case, as such, cannot be prosecuted on the way forward, and in such a way the proceedings were closed. Let me put it to the end as far as New Slovenia is concerned. In fact, we can also agree to delete the Institute of Immunity from the Constitution. Otherwise, we would have a truly unique solution within the European Union - also the European Constitutional Treaty knows the Institute of Immunity, and this is quite broad, not just for Members, even for officials working in the institutions of the European Union - but it is only necessary to realize that, in the end, immunity is not really an instrument that is written in the Constitution just to protect the Member, but is written as we understand in New Slovenia, especially in this respect to protect the National Assembly. It is said that it protects the work that a Member may not, at the time of the exercise of his office, be removed in some way for a certain period of time from the work of the National Assembly. For this would mean, let us say, in certain situations, that through such a way, the judicial system could reach into the work of the national assembly. For example, if we imagine that there would be a coalition, a coalition-opposition or, if you want, a position-opposition, say, for one voice of difference or, say, two votes, and it would happen that, I don't know, two Members or one Member would be removed from work because of such a lack of immunity, so that one party could vote on the other and so on. So, I think it is also a fundamental principle why this instrument of immunity in democracy is included in the Constitution - from this basic principle, it is said that there are no such consequences in the work of the legislative branch of power. We will support, as has already been said, this proposal, because it is pointless that, in the way that this State Assembly has so far decided on immunity. That is why this part and this determination in the constitution in our view - and I think so myself - must be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this debate on immunity, a person has particular personal experience, which is strange and mixed. When I first heard the proverb, which was permitted to Jupiter, it was not allowed by the ox, in fact, I did not immediately understand it. But later, when I understood him, I didn't want to understand him. What's this all about? I think it's just the opposite, that if we let the ox do something, it can't be afforded by Jupiter in any way. And if we are Members of the people, then we should also act in this direction and act in this way. Therefore, I hope that all of us in this Chamber will act in such a way that none of us will have to invoke immunity. But I'm more concerned about some state of mind and thinking in this society. Of course, a number of speeches have already been heard from these premises, which have been labeled the lowest level of democracy, and intolerance, with various weapons, has become entangled and so on. However, it seems essential to me that this is how the court will decide what we do if we do so. I tell you, for example, in one case, when the court has assessed that if someone tells someone that they cause endless material damage, that they steal and that they are corrupt, that the court considers this to be something purely normal between the politicians and that there is no need for any action; these are matters that seriously concern me more than this legal regime of immunity. Or if we tell someone who stole something that he was in legal error. There are matters that are crystal clear and that need to be treated and handled as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you. The word has Mr. Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that in the Group of Social Democrats, we want immunity to be narrowed down to the minimum necessary for the functioning of Members and Parliament. If we sincerely wish to do so, we can achieve this through this proposal, which we have prepared and also when we consider the views that are proposed. Otherwise, we will continue the practice that has been good for the last two years - and in this part Mr Petan is right, or Mr Sok, who said, "Nothing particularly tragic has happened lately!" Indeed, it is not because we had a very consistent position, that we were affected by the criminal proceedings, and particularly by Members and Members when we did not grant immunity for our own immunity. Just, ladies and gentlemen, remember, it wasn't always like this! There were also cases in the National Assembly, not many of them were fortunate, but they were, when we did otherwise - I even have some statistical review for this - and there were cases in the State Council when it was different. Therefore, the rejection of the proposed immunity solutions allows for the possibility that, at some point in time, pressure will reduce again the abuse of immunity publicly, we can return to the previous situation, which I would not like, and it would also be good for proposals to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you. I will repeat or personally believe that we do not need Members of immunity. I am pleased that we will at least eliminate the so-called procedural legal immunity. When I listened to some of the debaters before me, there were certain concerns or certain things that might actually happen to a Member, I do not refer to immunity in the case of a court case, or because of some political plots or games that have happened, I am sure that many people have happened. It is said that it does not refer to immunity, but it is up to the National Assembly to do so. In the end, it can even happen if the Members are of good will or if they know the matter more in detail to vote on your immunity. And in the end, they don't give me the opportunity to prove to the court that I'm not guilty or that the whole case is going to last so long, let's say, in some practical case, when the next election, when this topic is adopted, will take place. And I don't know if he's going to say now that it's because of the judges' work or the court's backlogs and so on. But such a system or such an arrangement as it was now, with regard to this procedural legal immunity, certainly allowed this to happen, so I am quite pleased that at least this part is being abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, there is no doubt that we here practically all believe that the existing regime is inadequate and that it shows a change. I think we have agreed, in a large part, on these open issues, and we are withdrawing what is in the sky, an eerie possibility that we have had the immunity that the whole country has been disgusted with. And perhaps repeating into infinity that we agree on this does not make much sense. What we would like to draw attention to is that Parliament can go forward without harming itself to the reputation of this Parliament a step further. That, as some have said here, he may further warn each of us that, in the event that he has no argument, he will be irreverently accusing others and insultingly accusing others and will be subject to the judgment of the Court and will be responsible in the Court of Justice for that. People actually expect this from us that we are not protected here at this point. And it is not to say that if we say that we must not grant this right by the constitution, that it is best to say that we do not have immunity at all. One thing is, if I'm sorry, I don't know, a reporter named Klaudio Slivnik, who wrote about me, she has documents about me, and she wrote about me saying that when a company was privatized, I took advantage of it. If she writes about it and she has no proof of it, I can sue her. This will be the arrangement if we adopt paragraph 83 incomplete. But if I tell her that it's no wonder that she writes this about me because she's bribed, she won't be able to sue me. This is the arrangement we're going to set up, and we're going to put it in the constitution. It can't be, ladies and gentlemen, like that. At least I think it's harmful. It harms our reputation. We're just not supposed to afford it. The dignity of people cannot be offended, at least it can be attacked and insulted from these premises, from the position of Members and Members. And if possible, they also say that children need to be careful about what they say, what attitudes are acceptable. It is not possible to spread intolerance around Slovenia as a Member or a Member at the same time to talk about the fact that we have a lot of intolerance and violence in society. That is why we did not accidentally propose that article 63 - and colleague Sok talked about it earlier and also colleague Grims - that article that is important. I know that the Constitutional Judges say that paragraphs 63 and 83 are joint articles and that the Court will decide when it decides that I have called for violence, whether it will apply it, given that article 83 states that I am not being tried or will not. I know it's modern today to say that this is the autonomy of different spaces, branches of power and so on. However, ladies and gentlemen, the story of autonomy is, so understood, particularly the field of neoliberal ideology. There is only autonomy in the world, not just a place where someone has to know how to decide, in this case the court. There is also responsibility. And the responsibility that the National Assembly must take on itself is that, in such a case, when the court knows that someone has exceeded the provisions of Article 63 of the Constitution and those articles in the Criminal Code, which are based on this Article, Article 83 of the Constitution is automatically excluded. It can't apply to us then. I don't know why we have to leave this to the court! I think that's a bad argument. Why do we bring a decision to court that we can make ourselves? But we accept it for ourselves. We will tell ourselves that if we were protecting ourselves against violence, to war and so forth, we are given Article 63 of the Constitution - and goodbye. There's nothing to discuss! Among other things, it is not surprising that we impose on the courts decisions that could be taken on their own that they have more to do than enough to do. Therefore, once again, without all prestige, I propose that we take our time and consider this. This is in the position adopted by the Constitutional Commission, adopted by a two-thirds majority, I was in this session, otherwise this place would not be here today. Trying to erase this from our point of view means that that deal there was worth nothing and that someone was trying to bring something else into the game. Why can't we think about it? I can't explain. If anyone also wanted to think about Article 63, then we have proposed to complement the position that makes it possible, let us think about the hugs, this would be quite normal, it seems more than correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the initiation of a procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law. The EPA 56 is an amendment to Article 83 of the Constitution. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 83 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Miran Podrč. I give the text to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. My complementary explanation, colleagues and colleagues, will be devoted to the reasons why I agreed to discuss, instead of the proposal that we tabled with our colleagues, a proposal that we discussed a little while ago and which was first signed after the coordination of the various proposals by the President of the National Assembly. The reason is that the content of the proposed text is very similar to that of Article 83. We have proposed criminal and indemnity liability, which is also proposed as immunity in the proposal signed by Mr Cukjat first. We considered that this responsibility should be considered only as matters of action in Parliament and that it should be formulated as sayings at meetings of the national assembly or meetings of its working bodies. A little of the previous proposal was, in the case of the exercise of the parliamentary function, the exercise of the parliamentary function, which is similar. However, in the proposal of the 1960s, there is one important news that we welcome, which is that no criminal proceedings against him are initiated. This issue has been widely understood in Parliament many times so far, and this action has led to the fact that we have always had to vote on permission in Parliament or not if this proposal is adopted, this will no longer be necessary. However, I would like to point out that, even in the new proposal, we would also support the proposed regime and thus only achieve that the content of immunity, which is now regulated in the Constitution in a relatively broad way, narrows down and narrows down exclusively to the functioning of the Member in the exercise of his post, not to anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was treated by the Constitutional Commission as the working body of the Parliament, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, mag will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Branko Grimes. Grimes cancels. Mr. Willie Rezman. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go. He's quitting. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Rezman is also giving up. Do any of the applicants want to talk? Mr. Gulic, do you have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u115	Dear President! This proposal will be supported because it facilitates work in the National Assembly. But I still have a few words to say about immunity. We forget here all the time that this provision for immunity, which applies to Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, for national saints and saints and constitutional judges and judges, of course also apply to European parliamentarians. We also decide on those who represent us in the European Parliament. And whatever decision will be taken here, of course it will also apply to European parliamentarians and parliamentarians, as immunity in the European Parliament is the same as in their home country. Let us not forget this matter and, in fact, let us not make their situation in the European Parliament difficult for them. It would make no sense, for example, that Slovenian parliamentarians and parliamentarians in the European Parliament would not be the only ones without immunity. That could happen, too, of course, if we're going to be very "smokin'" these things. We are still here: a Member, although we often hear that we are doing our work 24 hours a day, but we are not in every position as a Member 24 hours a day, so the proposal of the Social Democrats makes sense and is valid to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtijar. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Grimes. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Gaber. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Slavinac, you want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a constitutional law (EPA 101). The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 83 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed mags. Branko Grimes. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Much of what I would have said now was that I had to say in the introduction to the compromise proposal in order to explain my position. Our proposal to eliminate immunity has followed events which, in my opinion, are to Parliament as a whole - I am talking about the first and second homes, because I personally advocate the view that Slovenia has a two-house parliament - that Parliament as a whole has not been honoured. Here it must be very direct to say that this was not the fault of the national assembly, but that the second home, which is quite its own, would not say benevolently, because it would only be too diplomatic, act in granting the right to immunity and therefore this topic has come before us at all. As far as the SDS Group is concerned, we have already committed ourselves, at the beginning of our term of office, to the conclusion that we are giving up any right of immunity in advance for the duration of this term. And, as you know, whenever that issue opened up in the national assembly, we also consistently stuck to it. In our proposal, therefore, it was a deletion of immunity, which we have also aligned with other coalition groups of Members, which I am very happy to say and give them a great deal of gratitude and recognition for this agreement, because this is about giving up something that you have the right to stop. It was simply a matter of writing this right down or actually writing it down. It has been an opportunity for a long time, as I have already pointed out, that this will indeed happen, but when it turns out to be someone else's commitment, this debate was over, and the support shown in the various talks has quickly subsided. And in order to reach a compromise, we have agreed on the text that is before us. The text is, once again, as it is, a compromise. Personally, I think the deletion of the whole would be the purest solution and better, but the commitment I have made, the word, obliges me to vote for it when I vote in favour of the compromise proposal. However, I must say that after almost a year and a half of this debate, I also have to say quite frankly that I am convinced that there is only one real possibility, which is that that compromise proposal will be adopted. With regard to the deletion proposal itself, however, the story is as it was said at the outset. Ladies and gentlemen, who would like to further aggravate immunity, who actually wants to cancel it, should vote in favour of the proposal to delete it. If there are more than 60 votes, I will be happy to contribute to myself, then we can find that, due to the sequence of votes, this repeals that first compromise proposal, and then we will move forward with the proposal to delete immunity from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We can do that. However, if only a compromise proposal is to be adopted, please let us be fair to the institution that we belong to, and then avoid a variety of political plurals and find solutions that will achieve the greatest consensus both in terms of expertise and politics, and I think that much of this is already on paper at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you. The proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure was treated by the Constitutional Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Jakob the Presect - he's giving up. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much, President. I will not give up this path because I think it would be wrong not to say what we think in the DeSUS Group and not to say why we did not support this proposal or when the signatures were being collected, and we do not support it now. We know that in the last year, four proposals have emerged, three are still up-to-date, one has been withdrawn, and we know what history has been going on in this regard. But this proposal that we are now talking about is a proposal to delete that article that speaks of immunity, that is to say that immunity should be lifted at all. Why we have not signed this and why we will not support it now I will try to explain it very briefly. First, let me remind you what the applicant wrote down when he tried to justify deleting this Article 83. He wrote that he had decided to take a holistic approach. The deletion of paragraph 83 is not completeness, it is radicalism, but unjustifiable and meaningless. In order to find something comprehensive in this, we should have a special light, rather than say that this is an extremely separate approach. What's immunity? Once again, the motioner is answering us, answering that this is a lever for the protection of the Member. If the lever is to protect the Member - then why are we shutting it down? So that no Member and Member of Parliament will be able to speak of him, insult him, slander him, and do anything like this? Or perhaps to make him feel more comfortable in silence? So that he doesn't hope, as it would be right, to perform, to argue and also to protest when necessary? So that we can be more exposed and there will be only acclamation, clapping for what others will represent? Well, that's not how we in the Group of Members imagine it. Without immunity, we would have been really unimaginable, we would have been real special in the EU, so without chance, there was no such case, at least we couldn't find it. And we consider the withdrawal or acceptance of such a proposal to be a chronic nonsense because the sense of immunity is in fact denied. He's turning himself in. This is a return to the pre-modern era, a return to the time we left behind centuries ago, at least in the European world. This is also, so we estimate, a demagogue courtship to the electorate and a poor response to the Potrč proposal to tighten immunity. This is also related to the European Members and Members of Parliament because it has a direct impact on their status in Europe and in us. I am not sure that we have these rights to intervene in this way and thus to degrade the visas of other European Members and Members. This is also contrary to the 7th Protocol to the Treaty on European Constitution to which it refers. It is interesting that those who oppose this are told that they do not know the 7th Protocol and that the European Constitution treaties themselves are lying. So our opposition was firm at the time and united when the signatures were being gathered, and we are also firmly opposed to it now, which, of course, means once again that we will support the proposal called today's compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Grims has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. [[He's quitting.]] There will be a debate between Members and Members. Since there are many crossed points, will I just ask, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, Josip Bajc, Bogdan Barovic, Boštjan Zagorac, Zvonko Černač, Rudolf Petan, Branko Grims, Happy Friend, proposer? No, no, no. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Beblarov. You have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something in this proposal that this proposal, to put it mildly, is extremely insurmountable. If someone wanted to collect political points in this way, and it is obvious, then we can also say that this proposal is also completely immature. For it is not possible to delete only Article 83 of the Constitution, without prejudice to itself, even in the 100th article, which speaks of the immunity of saints in the State Council, in Article 167, which speaks of the immunity of the judge of the Constitutional Court, and in Article 134, which speaks of the immunity of the judge. It is clear from this that the one who proposed the deletion of article 83 was not serious, but he put something on the air that might seem pleasing to our electorate. We know that then, contrary to this, a proposal was also tabled to introduce provisions such as those proposed by the draft Constitutional Treaty, where, of course, a completely diametrically different path has been taken in the 7th Protocol. There, as we know, immunity is being extended not only to Members of the European Parliament, but also to officials of the European Union. From the same point we see that in fact someone is a little bit of a say, deranged from us fellow Members and, of course, also from the Slovenian public. That's why I thought she'd be very unhappy to leave this hall without saying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u123	Respectable present. On purpose, Members from the National Party did not comment on the previous points with the same substance. We would just like to point out and speak on behalf of all members of the National Party that it is likely that the world is wrong, that the opposition renounces immunity and that so-called government parties allow immunity. I can safely say, as a representative of the National Party, which is a political option that has always been in the opposition, that there is probably something wrong with the positions expressed during the previous and previous points of the National Assembly. Immunity is one of those tools that results from active members of the National Assembly. I have repeatedly observed various surveys that normally ruling politicians have never used in their deliberations, this is the most familiarity, the least familiarity, the least satisfaction of citizens and citizens of the hope that anyone in the national assembly will have something to say. I believe that in the normal world it would be not in the interests of the ruling parties, so I say that, of course, the world is wrong when I listen to representatives of the other two so-called opposition parties, who, of course, tend to do the opposite. But what I wanted to say during this debate is that it seems very terrible to me, on the one hand, to protect you during the entire previous term, and also in this mandate, people who have been criminally involved in privatising property, as we have demonstrated to you by name during the night so-called anti-corruption meetings that took place in the previous term, which we have shown you, when we have proved to you the financial participation of lobbyists, who are more or less openly supporting the ruling parties, the emphasis is once again in the previous term, and no one has ever asked for anything. But the fact is, gentlemen and gentlemen, that you are afraid of words, but by being afraid of the words spoken in the National Assembly, you support action, and that is actions that are much stronger than words. And, as you probably know, I hope that you know this by yourself, the acts of those who are hurt, for the acts are the fulfillment of the word. And as long as you have this kind of dual morality - all in a row that strives for how to be very careful about words, but it is you who are the same who advocates all of this, that make it possible to steal in this country through unintentionally or through purposefully delaying laws, through so-called lobbying within the economy - that I cannot say otherwise as immunity, the smallest thing for Members compared to what is happening or what has happened within our country. And today to speak big words or with a great tone about what a mortal sin is, how it is to encourage, I have even heard violence, war, by individual members of the national assembly. Gentlemen and gentlemen, this is, you know, blurry. The National Assembly is a forum where different opinions are met and, of course, of course, I usually speak, a minority opinion is not liked by the ruling majority. And that's also why something is wrong, because two opposition parties renounce the right to be warned, the right to be criticized. And the fact is, if someone criticizes or warns, of course, they hurt someone more or less - the one they warn or the one they criticize. But if your intention is to prevent criticism or warning, gentlemen and ladies from two other opposition parties, then you are not fulfilling your parliamentary function! I am pleased that the members of the National Party are fulfilling their opposition role, and I hope that they will continue to do so regardless of your aspirations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u124	Mr. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u125	Look, we are both proposing the basic proposals in something exactly the same opinion. The saddest thing is that such or other political overtures are going to keep things the way they are, and in fact, the system of immunity will not change in any way, which is likely to lead to new abuses sooner or later. Honey, I stress this in particular, but it will be sad for this national assembly and for its reputation if it turns out that this is also due to legal ignorance and complete inability to listen to each other, even in such an important matter as a constitutional change. A little earlier, a colleague from LDS said that it was impossible to delete that article without prejudice to Article 134, which speaks of the immunity of judges. You know, this article with the immunity of Members, which then indirectly, through the reference to articles, also regulates the immunity of state councilors and the judges of the Constitutional Court, has no constitutional link, does not. Let me read it to you: "No one who participates in the trial can be called to account for the opinion he gave in the decision of the court." And the second paragraph: "The judge shall not be detained or may not be tried without the permission of the State Assembly against him if he is a suspect of a criminal offence in the performance of his judicial function." So not only does judicial immunity rule completely apart from other immunity arrangements in this constitution - but has anyone noticed what is most interesting? It regulates the immunity of judges significantly wider than the immunity of members of the National Assembly has been regulated since the current regime. That's interesting too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u126	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to the last point at 7. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal to initiate a procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 129 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Sasha Pecchet. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Sasha Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u127	Your Honors are here! The amendment to the Constitution, as offered by the group of applicants, reads: "The judge is first appointed for an eight-year term and, after eight years, the judge may be appointed for a permanent term of office." The law lays down the age limit and other conditions for election. As you probably know, it means a possible adoption or continuation of the constitutional change procedure to take root in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and above all it means a fundamental intervention to date, the so-called untouchable permanent judicial mandate. In the group of candidates, we are convinced that the legislator, as well as the executive branch of the authorities in recent years, has done a lot in the framework of its powers and has tried to change a number of laws to the will and on the proposal of various judicial institutions in order to reduce the judicial backlog within our country. As you probably know, these backlogs are not shrinking and the annual indexation of these judicial deficits is increasing or is still catastrophically large. Judicial backlogs are not and should not be the sole problem of Slovenian politics or Slovenian political parties. I ask you, on behalf of the panel of motioners, to take the weight of judicial backlogs in particular in terms of the burden on citizens and citizens who are dissatisfied with the effectiveness of the judiciary, who are dissatisfied with the fact that they cannot find their rights despite clear legislation within the third branch of the government. Allow me, however, to introduce to you from 1990 onwards the numbers that are growing and reflecting the work or rather the work done by Slovenian judicial institutions. I will not seek praise, nor will I apologize for the work of the Slovenian courts. I would like to present to you in the next few moments only the facts through the number of unsolved cases. Each of these numbers, which will be given in hundreds of thousands, represents one of the dissatisfied Slovenes and Slovenes or one Slovenian family. I hope that you will then understand the extent of the dissatisfaction of our citizens and citizens over Slovenian courts. In 1991, I will start with it, there were 207.356, pending cases in Slovenia in the following year, i.e. in 1992, this figure increased by about 30,000, i.e. an additional 30,000 citizens, and citizens were dissatisfied with their outstanding case before the court, i.e. the number was 232,615 cases of outstanding cases by the Slovenian judiciary. In 1993, this figure increased by 10,000 Slovenes or Slovenians, amounting to 244,720 cases of outstanding cases. In the following year, 1994, this figure rose to about 70,000 and crossed that border of 300,000 dissatisfied citizens and citizens, or in particular 317.758 outstanding cases in 1994. In the following year, in 1995, the number of outstanding cases rose to 385.074. In the following year, 1996, this figure rose to 466,558 pending cases and in 1997, when a person expected that Slovenian policy would sober up after six years, it did not sober up, but the judiciary continued its work, according to some, effectively, in the opinion of the group of constitutional amendments proposing, with ineffective work, and this figure rose to over half a million Slovenian citizens and citizens, or half a million outstanding cases, or in other words to 520,060 cases of outstanding cases. This trend continued in 1997 and these are the figures that the current minister drops in the context of, when presenting legal innovations in this area, the number has risen to 597,587 cases of outstanding cases. The approximate trend continued in 1999 and 2000. The indexation is interesting, given that as the starting point of 1991, the indexation in 2000 is 267, which means that the number of pending cases has risen not only by 100%, not only by 110%, not only by 120%, 150%, but by 167% in our case. However, all outstanding matters, as I have said, speak solely of the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens, because the fact is that those who have an unreasonablely long trial or an unresolved case before the independent branch of power may be justifiably dissatisfied or concerned about the work of Slovenian courts. In the framework of the division of powers, or in the case of the division into individual areas of the judiciary, we can say with certainty that the case-by-case membership is the highest - and I will only take into account 2000 - in the area of district courts, where outstanding cases represent 434,642 cases. And what is particularly interesting, at least according to our assessment, is the relationship between the so-called courts of general jurisdiction compared to the specialised courts in which the case was less than 9% or, in other words, 29,356 cases of outstanding cases. As you probably know, in addition to the Slovenian National Party Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the third branch of the Authority, the judiciary, have also been reminded of this abnormal phenomenon by the institutions of the European Union. Personally, I have never been one of those who overemphasizes the opinions of various European institutions. But given that man has always learned something new, and since I have been in politics for some time now, I can certainly say that I will take my next explanation just out of the habit that all of you are doing, it is a so-called comparison with Europe. As it is said, judicial backlogs today represent, at least in my opinion, one of the major hardships of our country. I am sure that all of you who hope to reflect on this weight and issue, which this issue represents for Slovenian citizens and citizens, share an opinion. However, I hope that you will be able to demonstrate this opinion through confirmation that it continues or opposes the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, that the process is rejected and that this will end. If you, honourable Members, reject the procedure today or ban its further treatment, the legislator, as well as the executive branch of power, will remain ahead of the fact as it was in 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and so on. In short, it will face so-called partial solutions that will not lead to any solution that would prove to be in the context of reducing judicial backlogs. As you probably know, last year, in 2005, the first indictees occurred when the so-called European Union courts began to alert Slovenia to an ineffective judiciary. The first decisions on the unreasonablely long periods in which they were coming or in which decisions were not taken at all by different European institutions have been taken. But of course these institutions have given precisely those who have sought their right, i.e. citizens and citizens. And the fault for failing to reach a solution or failing to fulfil the tasks of the third branch of government was borne by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And if they were just indications in 2005, we can safely say that all of us who were present during this year at the time of the adoption of the legislation offered by the Parliament by the Secretary-General that we are witnessing the inflation of such claims by the European institutions. And of course, Slovenia will be forced to pay this damage to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia through its public finances, especially through the burden of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, through instructions from the institutions of the European Union. As you probably know, it has occurred recently, and in any way we welcome in part in the National Party's parliamentary group, the exercise of the right to a trial in the short term. The question of how successful the Minister proposed would be and how far this could reduce judicial backlogs. We are convinced, however, that the best, easiest way is the one we offer to this national assembly for admission, i.e. by adopting or amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of justice. In doing so, allow me to introduce you only to some of the laws adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the previous Government and from 2001 onwards to this year in terms of the pursuit of a reduction in judicial arrears. The fact is that the previous government like this has been under a lot of pressure from the judiciary, which should have changed everything in the legislative field in order to reduce judicial backlogs. And the fact is that the National Assembly, both in this mandate and in the previous term, followed this. Only in the legislative field did we pass a law on amendments and additions to the law on judicial service. We have adopted a law amending the Law on Judicial Service 31.5.2001, which was also adopted, continued with the Law on Labour and Social Courts at its 32nd regular session on 19.12.2003, at which we met again with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, the Government's proposal, adopted at the 37th regular session on 17.6.2004. We then met again with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, the proposed Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal adopted at the 21st extraordinary meeting of 10.7.2002, again met with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions, the proposed Government of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted at the 20th ordinary session of 29.11.2002. Then we met one of those measures announced by the government in 2001 as the main instrument for reducing judicial backlogs, namely the Law on free legal aid. The Act was adopted at the 6th regular meeting of 31.5.2001, and was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal State Examination, proposed by the Government, was adopted at the 26th ordinary meeting on 28.5.2003. Furthermore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, the applicant is the Government, the law was adopted at the 12th extraordinary meeting on 21.12.2001. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Offences Act, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted at the 38th ordinary meeting on 17.5.2004. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted at the 26th ordinary meeting on 29.5.2003. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted at its 19th regular session on 25.10.2002. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Offences Act, proposed by the Government, adopted at its 4th regular session on 22.3.2001. The Act on Offences, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted at the 21st ordinary session on 18.12.2002. In addition to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the Government proposed legislation, the Law was adopted at the 20th ordinary meeting on 29.11.2002. However, in order not to list the laws exclusively and only tactically, I will stop between 2001 and 2004. I will not continue to list the laws that we have received in the procedure and adopted in 2005 and so far in 2006. I sincerely hope you've got the point. That both the executive branch of the Authority and the legislative branch of the Authority followed the aspirations and demands of the judiciary following the amendment of the basic legislation. The legislators took into account the aspirations and proposals of the judiciary when they asked us or recommended that we improve their work. But, unfortunately, there is no effect in this area. Therefore, I can say with certainty that it is most likely that one who will again agree on a six-year period when the legislator, namely the National Assembly, is solely and merely amending the laws that he has already changed over the period and has blindly believed that this will reduce the judicial backlog within our country. The legislative proposals have also been followed by increases in funding under budgets in previous years. When an individual interlocutor from the third branch of government, namely the judiciary, asked us for additional financial resources in this or that area, the State Assembly, within the framework of the public finances that are expressed through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, also handed them over to them. I want to say, but I do not want to defend the National Assembly, that part of its task has been accomplished, of course, when it followed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in communication or in dialogue with the judiciary and prepared individual proposals, laws. These laws, which I spoke on purpose, were always prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. They never had only one political party after them and thus followed individual political aspirations to regulate the laws with the nominee. On several occasions, we have been marked by the motions that we want to make with our proposals, that is to say to limit the judicial mandate, as individuals or groups of people who are interfering with the autonomy or independence of the judiciary. The fact is that, regardless of whether or not the proposed amendments are accepted or not, we assess in the National Party, and a group of applicants assess that judges who are loved individually and in Parliament, which are Slovenian judges, we love each other individually and each vote in Parliament, have a high constitutional status and that this gives judges a position outside the judiciary. According to our assessment, this is one of those guarantors that allows an independent judiciary and not just one, but the most important guarantor. We also know that the normative part of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers to the separation of powers. The institutional independence of Slovenian judges or the Slovenian judiciary, however you wish, proves the Council of Justice, its appointment and, finally, its composition. I would therefore like to ask that we continue to avoid unwarranted evidence of a so-called intervention in the autonomy of the judiciary. I sincerely hope, better said, that each of you, all Member of Parliament and the Member of Parliament, is aware that there has not been an extended debate in this national assembly, nor in the previous reference, when a judge or judge is appointed to that place, and this case, however some of you wish to tailor it today, has passed through the political debate. The Kviaz Commission has carried out its part of the task and the National Assembly has generally confirmed this decision of the working body of the national assembly without discussion. Allow for some types of comparable insight into past years. As you know, the National Party has long sought to limit the permanent term of office. We follow a very simple category that applies to all other professions and all other officials within our country. As you probably know, the president of the country is appointed or loved for a period of time. Members and Members are loved for the period, ministers and ministers are appointed for the period. Doctors are appointed for the period and must extend this period through various advanced issues such as activities within their work. I want to say that the directors in the public sector are subject to a certain mandate period, including the mayors and everyone else, which is right. The period shall be set to see whether an individual is part of his or her task or not. According to our assessment, this should also be reported to judges and judges. We all know from my assessment that the one-off appointment, for the first time, does not allow any competition, and for the second time, does not allow for progress that uncompetitiveness and inprogress are the reason for such a large number of judicial backlogs as we have in our country. The appointment of a judge in a permanent judicial term, we know that this is, as a rule, a life term, despite the fact that we will most likely hear several times during today's debate that a judge or a judge can be dismissed. We all know that there are very few such cases or that they are not worth mentioning. The national party has already tried to take a very clear approach to restricting the judicial mandate several years ago. According to our assessment, the best solution would be to bring about the impact that citizens and citizens would pay, i.e. to reduce judicial backlogs, to bring about the competitiveness and effectiveness of the trial of Slovenian judges and judges, if the mandate of judges were to last eight years. This Decision, or a proposal from the Slovenian National Party, met the national assembly on 31.5.2001. In 2001, we proposed a decision in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which read: "The mandate of the judge elected to the judicial service lasts eight years, with the work of the judge being checked every two years. After the expiry of the term of office, i.e. after eight years, the judge may re-cantest for judicial service." According to our assessment, even today I am firmly convinced that this would be the best constitutional category that would allow for an effective judiciary that would allow for a trial without judicial backlog. At that time, the National Assembly adopted this proposal for a decision. The decision was adopted at the time of the examination of the Judicial Service Act. It is interesting that the said decision was supported by Members of the various political options. But why? Since the decision was put into the procedure without excessive political pressure and because the votes were not voted by the main political actors at the time, Members and Members were acting on their conscience. Because in a given situation they were forced to behave or vote according to their conscience. Today, too, it would have been the same if there had not been guidelines that, of course, dictate decision-making, unfortunately, even in this national assembly. Allow me to present to you just a few names of those who are in important positions today and for whom I sincerely hope to suggest to all of you - with this of course I do not want to humiliate you - their decision of 2001 after a strict limitation of the judicial mandate to eight years, with a check every two years and with the possibility of extending the judicial mandate if such a judge does not have unjustified reasons, there is an emphasis on unjustified judicial failures. Earlier mention was made of former fellow Member Bernik Jožef, Michael Brejc, Janez Janša, Mr Jelko Kacin, Mr Kebrič Ivan, Merlo Aleksander, Partlič Anton, Rudolf Petan, Alojz Peterle, Valentin Pohorec, Pukšič Franc, Rokavec Franci, Paule Rupar, Sok Aloyz, Sušnik Franc, Tisovic Marija Ana, Zupan Majda. In short, I have listed only a few names of all those who, back in 2001, sought to put matters within the judicial branch of power on the right foot, to reduce unjustified backlogs and to reduce or minimize the dissatisfaction of our citizens and citizens. I sincerely hope that those of you who are still sitting in Parliament, of the above mentioned, will follow your conscience in 2001, or all of you who are the successors of the aforementioned people who have become our prime ministers will become European Members, following the above-mentioned aspirations to the matter. In addition, I would like to highlight the so-called twinning project, a project that consisted of several analyses. But the concept of all analyses is the same. Initially, it describes the situation, gives reasons for the situation in the middle, and in the end, each of these analyses represents a number of measures that would make sense and wise to be highlighted within our country. And since I'm not going to read all your tests, but just one thing, I'm just going to count the rest. So, for the first time, there was a civil court analysis. Second, criminal justice analysis. Third time, social court analysis. Hereinafter, an analysis of the real estate execution. Hereinafter, an analysis of the working courts. The analysis of the administrative court, which continues with the analysis of the State Prosecutor's Office, continues with the modernisation of the judiciary. However, since I believe that every Member or Member concerned by the situation in the judiciary has read this analysis, I will only point out one thing. In one of the members of the European Union, their backlogs in 2000 were considered. With them, politics could be unified in two points, but unfortunately there is no way to unify ourselves in either of us. Firstly, they expressed common concern about judicial inefficiency. The problem with Slovenia is that we cannot even unify ourselves on this. Because some political parties, or the government, partially or completely closes their eyes and today does not recognize that the judiciary in our country is a problem, these are in this country, I will later say which one it is. And secondly, they worked together to find ways and methods to resolve the situation. They have left the matter to the institution or institute for legal cooperation, with the task of determining the reasons for the overload and the long duration of the procedures and the task of drawing up proposals for assistance. Within the Slovenian state, we have met with a variety of forms of assistance ten times and several times in the form of laws that have not led to the effect we would like. I've mentioned these laws to you before. But we can see that there is no real effect. And according to our assessment, and above all, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, we are obliged to do this for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. During this period, on a proposal of concern for politicians of one of the European countries, a so-called twinning project, a twinning project also for Slovenia, with title, I will define only one, the one with the title Modernisation of the judiciary. The project was created in cooperation with all three institutions or levels of justice in our country, i.e. for the first time district courts, for the second time district courts and higher courts. The findings of the analysis were carried out in 2000. The analysis shows that the situation in the Republic of Slovenia has not changed significantly since 2000 and that the number of judicial backlogs has continued to increase, and there is only one new fact that we have been warned about the problems of these judicial backlogs and have begun to impose penalties on us even the institutions of the European Union. In part, this sobered the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been in the past few months, I think it came with two or three laws in this area. But there must be no reason to adopt changes under the legislation solely as a warning from Europe. We, ladies and gentlemen, are obliged to satisfy the interests of citizens and citizens. Do not change legislation only when the warning we all know for a long time comes from Europe. This is intended for constitutional changes, as we offer them to you within the group of signatories. The fact is, I will present you a twinning analysis, which is the basis for the adoption of constitutional changes, as we offer you within the group of signatories. That we had in this period, the emphasis was that during this period we had 44 District Courts, 11 District Courts and 4 Higher Courts within the Republic of Slovenia, that in these courts there were 678 Judges or, in other words, that we had almost 700 Courts. The analysis is based on an analysis of the comparison with approximately the same region, the same by geographical size, compared to a comparable European region. This comparable European province or region, I hope that one of the Members will not later hold me in favour of the word when I speak to the region or the province in a rather developed EU Member State, which is in Germany, where so-called German law serves primarily as an example to the new members and members. Then why do such measures not serve as an example to us if you do not want to follow the suggestions of the Slovenian National Party? In short, the mentioned people who carried out the analysis and this analysis of the government of the Republic of Slovenia have, of course, all the institutions have, some have been very critical to it, but you can find out which institutions have critically defined themselves to this so-called twinning project, especially the judicial institution. Why? Because this twinning project shows a large part of what is bad in the Slovenian judiciary. What I'm trying to say is that they were comparing two provinces. On the one hand, the Republic of Slovenia, with its 20,000 square kilometres with a comparable province in Germany, had 19,700 and several square kilometres, and everywhere in Slovenia, the number of judges performing their duties in any of these courts moved to number 700, as well as in this comparable European region, as I have already said in Germany. We can compare size and we can compare the number of judges. But there's something we can't compare. There were 4 million people living in this province in Germany; there are 2 million people living in Slovenia. These 700 judges were again subjected to a greater caseload or were concerned about the once more number of those seeking help, as were the concerns of Slovenian judges. In the comparable European region there were 4 million, in Slovenia there were, unfortunately, only 2 million of us today. There have been a number of findings. That year, these findings were directed both to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to individual competent ministries and, last but not least, to the judiciary. Unfortunately, the effect of this analysis was none other than the one before us today when amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are proposed. As it is said, there are judges in Slovenia, that is their conclusion, quote, "too much". There are more than once more of them than in this comparable European region, where there are no such judicial anomalies as we have seen in the Republic of Slovenia, of course under the assumption of comparable tasks. In the following their second conclusion, and I will go in line, I will not release any, is the so-called human resources occupation, namely, they have found that the criterion or key for seizing the number of courts in our country is inadequate, that individual courts with judges have been set up inadequately, with the size covered by these courts. For example, the District Court in Ormož with two judges, compared to the District Court in Jesenice, had 5 judges, bearing in mind that the autumn District Court was the eleventh largest court and that, despite the fact that, compared to that court I had previously said, no one had worked for six months because of two, but I do not want to criticize it now, but for the first time, in the case of maternity leave and for the second time because of the second absence. And then let's wonder why there's a backlog. Because in the District Courts, ladies and gentlemen, no one worked that year. Neither has anyone been sanctioned, nor has anyone been criticized for anything like this, but the only consequence was the judicial backlog and the general consequence that some people today do not want to admit, are judicial backlogs and disgruntled citizens and citizens. As a third conclusion in this so-called twinning analysis, and I have already said at the outset that personally something does not mean much to me, or the warnings we receive from the framework of the European Union, that much more means to me the criticisms we receive from citizens and citizens, but because their findings are so very interesting, I will also continue with them, because I know that some of you critics from Europe mean much more than, unfortunately, criticisms from the country. They touched, hereinafter referred to as point 3, the so-called working time of the Judges. Their conclusion: the working time of Slovenian judges is unacceptable. This is the quote they used in their findings. Why? They work from 8:00 to 4:00 p.m., either there's no instrument, or it's really done by 4:00. Not a single instrument within our country has been identified that would allow control of that 16-hour period and that it is by its own decision to decide on unlimited breaks without any control, as I have actually said. When I read this, I thought it was an extremely good job. You don't need any effect, you don't have to be present, you do whatever you want, you have all the ratings that a person weighs, and there's a life function. If anyone says you're doing a bad job, you tell him he's getting involved in the autonomy of the judiciary. This is unacceptable, unconstitutional, you are violating the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Here's their fourth decision, or conclusion, and I'm going to quote. People, I know you will like us very much again, from Europe, they say: "Rightly, the financing of Slovenian courts is exemplary, and the financing of Slovenian courts is exemplary." And then people wonder if Europeans, with a long legal tradition, make fun of the Republic of Slovenia to say, "In Slovenia, the nature is the exemplary financing of Slovenian courts." I was personally surprised. Anyone who doesn't believe has a twinning analysis mentioned in the library of the National Assembly. They further point out that personal outages are a personal part of the budget, but for instance, I will mention the hospital's personal loss of employment, not the burden of the judiciary's budget, but the burden of the social part of the budget, which means that this part of the budget does not go to judges in that form of reduction of financial resources. The fifth finding they make is the amount of part of the judges to be determined within the expected scope of the work as determined by the Council of Justice. A very important sentence. We'll be building on it for the next few minutes. The Council of Justice shall determine or agree with the expected scope of work. The representatives of the individual courts come and say, "My judges, we expect them to work so much and so." That's what the council of justice confirms. But what is this confirmation of the expected scope of work? This is not what I find, as experts from Europe say, what is happening in the Slovenian judiciary within our country. First of all, they compared the efficiency ratio of the work of the Slovenian judge with the comparable German judge in the area of civil proceedings, for the first time for district, district and higher courts. The expected scope of the Slovenian judge's work is, I will talk about annual amounts or figures, 200 cases. This is the expected extent of the judge in our country in all three courts, namely in district, district and higher courts. What is the expected scope of the judge's work in this comparable European region? 600 to 700 cases a year. Three times as many. Then we wonder why we're behind in court. In another area, if we take the criterion, namely that the criterion is unfair, the expected scope of work for a Slovenian judge is slightly higher than before, hand to heart, that is 450 cases per year. But if we compare a judge in a comparable European region, his criteria in the area of unfair cases are 3,200 cases per year. Are these not essential differences? Do we not somehow come up with an answer to why the Slovenian judiciary is ineffective? It's our estimate of yes. As far as the judges' salaries are concerned. I quote. "Salaries are relatively higher than in Germany." The authors of this analysis also point out, for the first time, that a system of awards is being built in our country, allowing a multiple of the basic amount. We see, therefore, that wages are also relatively higher than comparable judges in the European Union. The following was touched by the fact that they wanted to provide a comprehensive analysis, a comprehensive view of the above-mentioned case also in the equipment of the courts. Their conclusion from this area was very simple: The equipment of Slovenian courts is very good! Three calls. I made the calls so that there will be no mistake, in short, the equipment of Slovenian courts is very good. They also criticised the functioning of the judiciary because they say that they are throwing a rather bad light or causing a deterioration of the reputation of justice and judges because their only concern is to increase the human resources potential or increase the judges, never to ask themselves how to reduce judicial backlogs. Also, in this analysis, which I think is very interesting and very urgently needed for Slovenia to acquire, is the problem of what is called the "helpful" staff, or the secondary judicial potential. In doing so, let me inform you that this alone belongs to a Slovenian judge at a coefficient of three, compared to a comparable judge who, of course, has in this case what I gave, a comparison of one. In short, three to one in favour of the Slovenian judge. As for the technical equipment of the Slovenian courts, their findings after their stay, after the examination of the Slovenian courts, are excellent, so that the 11 elements I have presented to you are based solely on the analysis of the civil court. Before that, I did count the other 12 tests, but I've only got 17 minutes left, so I'm sorry I can't tell you anything else. But each of these analyses follows about this content, as I've just presented it to you. In short, not looking for a culprit elsewhere than in the judicial system itself, especially after our assessment in the system of unlimited judicial mandate. In this context, the said gentlemen have proposed or even proposed themselves a number of measures of those short-term measures that can be implemented within the framework of the judicial work, i.e. those primary measures, after their assessment of the time limit. First time. It is necessary to reduce the number of district, district, higher courts and connect them by monitoring approximately territorial occupation. Of course we don't have this in Slovenia. Another time. To increase the expected scope of the work that is set, let us not forget, the Council of Justice. This is the comparison where Slovenian judges are three to ten times less burdened with the expected work than judges in a comparable European region. To edit, I am talking about that period, some of which the Slovenian State of course carried out, arrange the service, regulate the procedure, due to the delay, continue to prevent delaying procedures by stating new facts until the end of oral hearings, increase the quality of the trial. That's a very interesting observation they made. Others may criticise the Slovenian judicial system, but no one can seem to interfere with its independence when the political party does so, immediately resorted to the independence of the independent branch of power, i.e. the judiciary, but find that it is unreasonable to see the high number of adjourned and reinstated trials in the new trial. You won't believe it, the percentage of cancellations or repetitions is between 30% and 40%. This does not show a different angle, a very bad judgment or an unquality work. Has anyone been responsible for this? Thirty to 40% of all people. Everyone puts their hands away and says, "If this happens, whatever they want to do, they're autonomous." But who's suffering from this? Citizens and citizens. And, interestingly enough, of these 30% to 40% cancelled or retrialed, three or four times this happens in the same case. And here we get a pretty simple reason, a re-examination of the number of judicial backlogs, why other judicial backlogs suffer. As one of the measures, they also state the abolition in order to eliminate the exemption from costs in connection with the lodging of complaints. We received some instructions that year on how to proceed, but above all we got an insight into the comparability of the Slovenian judiciary with that comparable European region. Which one of these happened? The National Assembly has adopted those laws, as I initially quoted them to you, by quoting you only half of the laws, especially those adopted from the twinning analysis to 2004. I have not even touched on this mandate, because I consider that the most important act facing the National Assembly in this mandate is the act that we are considering today. This is a proposal for constitutional changes, which, according to our assessment and strong conviction, would allow for an effective judiciary and, above all, the competitiveness and efficiency of the judiciary. Therefore, allow me to read once again the draft constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The first paragraph of Article 129 is amended to read as follows: The Judge shall be appointed for an eight-year term. After eight years, the judge may be appointed for a permanent term of office. The law lays down the age limit and other conditions for election. It is estimated that the amendment mentioned or just quoted does not affect the independence of the judiciary, especially if we take into account what constitutes the basis or constitutional status of the judges. First of all, that they are loved individually and that they are loved in Parliament. Secondly, the institutional independence of Slovenian judges has been proven through the judiciary concerning appointment and composition. The proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure signed by the Group of Members raised a short debate within the Constitutional Commission or the Commission to amend the Constitution. It was signed by 21 members of the National Assembly. We have offered these constitutional changes to all Members and Members of Parliament for admission, and we are pleased that the so-called profession or I apologize, as well, has been defined by the Commission of Experts until these constitutional changes in the first phase. In doing so, I must point out that the proposal for a constitutional law which we have offered for adoption weighs, or follows, for the first time, the basic idea of a national party on the strict limitation of the judicial mandate, i.e. a five-year term with the possibility of re-election, if there is no undue delay on the one hand, on the other hand, the proposal to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia follows the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the previous term, i.e. a government composed on the one hand by the Liberal Democracy, the United List and at the same time, I apologize to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the then the United List of Social Democrats. And at the time, this proposal was, to a good extent, more acceptable than it is now, as it has proved to be within the framework of the Constitutional Commission. And what does the Constitutional Commission say now? The Constitutional Commission has submitted its report on 9.3, which is, in fact, only a few months after the group of applicants has submitted or fulfilled all the conditions that the constitutional procedure must fulfil in order to be able to begin. First of all, we are told that this would be an unacceptable intervention in the autonomy of the judiciary. I have already said that this unacceptable intervention in the autonomy of the judiciary is impossible to do as long as the judges are elected individually and as long as they are elected in Parliament, because this allows them to have a high constitutional status that gives judges a position outside the judiciary. The following is very interesting, at least after our assessment, the finding of constitutional experts in this field, i.e. the experts of the Constitutional Commission, when they find that judicial backlogs need to be resolved by other measures. Ladies and gentlemen, 40 minutes ago, I told you that the National Assembly in this and previous composition met with some 10 legislative proposals coming from more or less directly the judiciary, but the matter did not change. We have increased the financial resources several times on the various items that touch the judicial branches of government, but the case has not changed. That we had a little sober within the legislative branch of power and the executive branch only when we received the first birds of knowledge last year, when Europe warned us, and this year when these birds of knowledge come mass in the Republic of Slovenia, when European institutions mark us as a country in which the government in this area is a complete chaos and complete confusion. We were most surprised at the conclusion under point 3.4 in the national party, that is, the conclusion of the so-called Commission, which acted within the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly and in which they speak. I quote, "...as well as a larger or even worse slip has evaluated the word'may', which also contains the current proposal. This word excludes a firm legal guarantee" - the emphasis is, please, if you listen to it in a firm legal guarantee, "that the judge will in fact be elected for a permanent term after the trial term has passed." But that was the purpose of these constitutional changes. So to prevent that hard legal guarantee, automaticism, that someone who has done bad work will also be automatically confirmed in advance. This is the main reason for these constitutional changes. It can't be automatic. Those who have worked poorly must be subject to or be subject to certain controls. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us, also within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the National Assembly, the directors of the public sector, is subject to certain controls during a certain term of office. It can't be automatic. This is about as they would say, Members of Parliament are automatically also in the next term. It just doesn't work that way. We must all go before an institution, we, Members and Members of Parliament, before the elections and voters, as well as in the other branches in which politics is involved, but others must go before other institutions that will assess the work. And the most important element that we offer in these constitutional changes is to destroy the so-called firm legal guarantee. This firm legal guarantee must not be, for if someone has done bad work, if his work in Slovenia has caused judicial backlogs, then, of course, his mandate should not be confirmed in advance. This has been followed in the context of constitutional changes. As you know, they have not only negatively defined themselves in the proposal of the expert commission, which has handed out a proposal for the initiation of a procedure which, according to our assessment, is neither - and I do not want to be offensive - to understand the substance of the proposed constitutional changes, because then they would not exactly read out what we are proposing, because of course this is nonsense, but unfortunately the government of the Republic of Slovenia has also responded negatively. Some time ago, the top of the coalition - it was Monday - decided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would join its constitutional changes in that area. The day after that Monday, I think it was fourteen days or three weeks ago, the government's Committee on State Arrangements and Public Affairs confirmed the decision of the coalition's summit on its constitutional changes. On Thursday, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also discussed this at its meeting. In short, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has said negatively to the proposal of the Group of Members, for reason that it comes with its constitutional changes, with which, under the terms of course, it will be "played by the National Assembly". As part of a government decision, of course, they claim that so-called denial occurs, or we claim that there is a denial of existing government positions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also said that no so-called or so-called permanent judicial mandate is to blame for the backlog, whereas it does not have the influence of the so-called permanent judicial mandate, while it itself has a certain form of interference in this permanent judicial mandate. According to our assessment, this government proposal, which introduces a new article with code A, would cause a new confusion in the judiciary. While the proposal, as we offer it to you today within the group of signatories, is very clear and will not offer any confusion. He'll actually make everyone know what they're up to. Firstly, the judges will know their basic status, i.e. a permanent term of office or a probationary term of office. We shall then reintroduce or maintain the law on judicial function, which will implement all the sub-legislative rules which will be the responsibility of the Minister of State and which will be reaffirmed by the National Assembly as legislator. In no way do we allow inconsistencies. And as far as the threat to the independence of the judiciary is concerned. Here I would ask you to reconsider, in all your decisions - some Members have been here since the very beginning of parliamentary democracy - how many times have you encountered a parliamentary debate in the debate on the appointment of judges in the National Assembly. How many times has this tried to influence the election or non-election of an individual judge? I do not recall once discussing any appropriateness or inappropriateness in this mandate. There was no such debate. Therefore, it is not possible for Parliament, not Parliament, to assume that there is a mistake in assessing whether the backlogs have been created for a reason or without, to assess whether the autonomy of the judiciary is being taken into account. According to our proposal, that is, following the proposal of the Slovenian National Party and the Group of Members, which joined in the search for this solution, as stated, we offer an eight-year mandate with the possibility and using the word "may". This prevents the so-called permanent guarantee, as we are told within the framework of the so-called expert commission, within the framework of the Constitutional Commission. We are convinced that the National Assembly would do a service, not just to itself, not only to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is the least that it can do if it accepted the continuation of the procedure. I would primarily do a service to citizens and citizens, to all those whom I initially referred to in hundreds of thousands, when the said backlogs increased from 120 000 to over 500 000. We have so many setbacks, so many families in our country are tied to these decisions, and we are likely to have so many dissatisfied citizens with only one branch of the judiciary. However, for those of you who have not been convinced by the analysis coming from a comparable European region, let me just remind you once again that we have already witnessed inflation from the European Union institution for an unreasonable long time, a trial that has been going on through this unreasonable period of time that also violates human rights in this area in our country. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was treated by the Constitutional Commission as the working body of the Parliament, which reported in writing to the assembly. I ask the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Slavko Gabra, to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u129	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 2nd meeting, on 18.1.2006 and its continuation, on 3rd meeting, on 11.5.2006, the Constitutional Commission considered a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was tabled by a group with a first-signed Saš Pečet. At its 2nd meeting, the first-signed Saša Peca presented the main reasons for the proposed amendment of the Constitution on behalf of the proposers. The Constitutional Commission, however, held a general debate on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 129 of the Constitution at the 3rd meeting, after having also obtained an opinion, today the expert group mentioned here in the Constitutional Commission for the Judiciary. Expert of the Section, Dr. Tone Jerovšek and Dr Lojze Ude, in an opinion summarized in the report of the Constitutional Commission on the treatment of the proposed constitutional amendment, propose not to support the proposed amendment of Article 129 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The opinion draws attention, of course, to the professional opinion, to the inadequacy of the proposed regime for the establishment of an eight-year probationary mandate, after which the judge would have the right to pursue a permanent term of office, which would jeopardise the independence of the courts in the event of its enforcement. The opinion also draws attention to the conclusions of the section of the previous mandate of the National Assembly when experts stated that constitutional changes were necessary only then and only to the extent that they were necessary and inevitable because the current constitutional provisions were facilitative, obsolete or because they were also linguistically designed so that open issues could not be resolved by an interpretation and by laws implementing the Constitution. The Constitutional Commission also took note of the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which assesses the proposed amendment of the Constitution as inappropriate and, as the Government says, unnecessary. In the general debate, the members of the Constitutional Commission put forward their views that the proposed amendment to the Constitution was inappropriate and not necessary, and in so doing in particular drew attention to the threat to the guaranteed constitutional principle of the independence of the judge if the amendment had been adopted. In the debate, Saša Peca, on behalf of the proposalers, rejected some of the criticisms from the section's opinion. However, Dr Lojze Ude, a member of the section, added some additional arguments for the opinions and answered the questions raised. After the general discussion was concluded, the Constitutional Commission voted on the proposal for a decision on the basis of Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not support it. It therefore proposes to the National Assembly not to support the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a proposal from the Group of Members of 2.12.2005 with the first signed by Saš Pečet to initiate a procedure to amend Article 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Please, Mr. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The reasons given in the initiative to introduce an experimental mandate for a period of 8 years for the judges of the beginners in order to give the judge a permanent term of office at the outset on the basis of a positive assessment of his work after the expiry of the period of 8 years, which would contribute to the quality of the work of the judges, are unfounded in the Government's view. The sustainability of the judicial function does not mean the inviolability and irresponsibility of the judges. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 132 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legislator shall be empowered to determine by law the reasons why a judge may cease his judicial function. On the basis of that constitutional mandate, the Law on the Judicial Service laid down in detail the reasons why the judicial function and the discharge proceedings could be terminated. It is clear from those legal provisions that a judge who does not correspond to the judicial service shall cease to have a judicial function. In order to verify the judge's ability to perform a high-quality, timely and professional function, it is not necessary to establish an institute of an experimental judge, since the purposes pursued by such an experimental judicial mandate can be fully achieved by means made available by the Constitution and the Judicial Service Act. Nor will the Institute of the Trial Judge contribute to the resolution of judicial delays nor will it ensure that new ones are not created. The proposed amendment to the Constitution is therefore not necessary and is not meaningfully linked to the objectives or purposes set out by the applicants. In this regard, we add that the Ministry of Justice has prepared a joint project, a project to remedy judicial backlogs, that is, the Lukenda project, which foresees a series of measures to ensure more effective judicial work with a view to finalising judicial backlogs in the courts and prosecutors. In order to achieve this objective, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the need to ensure additional employment of judges during this period, and this can only be achieved effectively by amending the Constitution, as it does not allow the employment of judges for a certain period of time. The purpose of the selection of judges for a certain period of time is solely to ensure, by means of a Constitution, that the right to a trial is guaranteed without undue delay. The proposed amendment is therefore without prejudice to the independence of the judiciary, as the permanent judicial function is not linked to the institute of the probationary judge. For those reasons, the Government considers that the proposed amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is neither appropriate nor necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. If it were true that the suspension of a permanent judicial mandate would solve all problems overnight in the judiciary, then I doubt that anyone among us who would not support this proposal would be among us. We do not believe this in the parliamentary group, but we do not wish to follow the half-truths in this regard, because of this proposal of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Saš Pječet, that judges are appointed for eight years, and after this period they can be appointed under a permanent term of office, we will not support it. The signatories to the proposal consider that the introduction of the probationary mandate of judges would contribute to the abolition of judicial backlogs, as the backlog would be due mainly or exclusively to the inactivity and poor work of the judges; this would be conditioned by the constitutional category of the permanent term of office. So if the National Assembly could have in its hands a tool to assess after eight years which one of the judges did well and who did not, who could be appointed in a permanent judicial mandate or not, who violated the principles of judicial service and acted poorly, then the whole problem of judicial backlogs would, according to the applicants, be resolved in a very short time. The proposal of the signatories, including the members of the three coalition parties, is surprising, even though we have heard the opinion of the Government which opposes this proposal, is opposed by the entire constitutional profession, as well as by the government and the Constitutional Commission. The profession and the government argue that the proposed solutions would not contribute in any way to overcoming the judicial backlog. The representative of the government also said at today's meeting that the current solutions ensure that the inactive work of the judges, the lack of respect for the judiciary can be sanctioned much earlier than after eight years, the question is only if the competent authorities are doing so sufficiently. And the same question is, under what criteria would the State Assembly do this after eight years? I hope that it is not the Commission's mandate, and I hope that it is not the Members and Members under the criterion of whether the trial has been adapted to their political views and interests or not. Such a proposal could, however, significantly affect the independence of the judiciary as one of the foundations of the democratic constitutional order of Slovenia. The proposal for constitutional amendments assumes that an evaluation of the work of the judge should be carried out after eight years of the first appointment and that the Constitution must not provide unconditional guarantees that the judge may be re-elected after eight years. Parliament would have identified its work in some way and, in the opinion of Members and Members, it would not have been elected under a permanent judicial mandate. The applicants consider that this would ensure the professional, rational and faster functioning of the courts and that a fairer trial would also be ensured. In particular, the latter would therefore be assessed by Parliament and the National Assembly, but not by the independent judicial branch of the Authority in the context of regular appeals and court proceedings. On the one hand, the applicants therefore recognise that the proposed amendments to the Constitution aim primarily to eliminate judicial backlogs by more disciplining judges and, on the other hand, pointing to large words and objectives on a more professional, rational, faster functioning of the courts, on a more fair trial. Both and for both, special arguments other than flat-rate evaluations shall not be eliminated. In recent years, all justice ministers and all governments have been involved in the abolition of judicial arrears. But in this work I must agree with the applicants - unfortunately not with sufficient success. In order to achieve this objective, the current government has also faced backlogs and has prepared the Lukenda programme, has proposed a special law to ensure that the trial is within a reasonable time frame and even a very similar amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution, although it claims to be very different from what the applicants have proposed, i.e. it has also proposed a double number of judges: one with a permanent term, the other with a five-year mandate, without criteria, or we will choose those first five years with a permanent mandate. And if we gather everything for only five years, with a five-year term, then we know that we will come to have the same judicial function, even with the obligation to have two different types of judges equally involved in the judicial system. However, there is no shortage of ideas, including the new government, and the question is whether they are imaginative, supported by arguments, and will also really contribute to the objective they stand for. With regard to the proposal of the first-signed Mr Pečet, the single opinion of the Government, the constitutional professions and the judicial institutions, he believes that the proposal cannot solve the problem so that it can seriously interfere with the system of power-sharing and the independence of the judiciary. However, in the end, once again, this does not mean that warnings about the inadequate resolution of judicial backlogs and the lack of due process are not justified within a reasonable time. They are very well-founded, and we expect Members and Members of the Social Democrats to come before the National Assembly with a comprehensive and documented analysis of the causes of the judicial backlog and, above all, with comprehensive measures to address them. If this is Lukenda's programme, including the Lukend programme, why not, but let him propose to the competent working body that we discuss it, and not choose the pieces from it, which we do not know about, or then represent the whole solution. For legislation that generates new disputes should be thoroughly analysed. Not the Social Democrats, the President of the Supreme Court draws attention to laws that in themselves create tens of thousands of new jobs, or lawyers, or courts, or prosecutors, and then we wonder if backlogs are generated. It is necessary to look at legislation allowing for possible abuses in the procedure. Legislation that without the need for legal protection prolongs procedures is certainly legislation that requires that more things be resolved materially in complaints, but not that complaints are only dismissed in the first degree judgments and then returned to the retrial. In order to assess in concrete terms: whether the possibilities given by the Judicial Service Act, when assessing the work of a judge, are also working in practice or we have too much mutual tolerance in this area; whether the number of judges, judicial assistants or professional workers is also comparable in the regions and where possible additions are needed; whether the spatial possibilities of justice are adequately resolved, in particular, or whether their use is adequately resolved, since we know that many times the debates are only between nine and one hours and later the debate halls are not exploited, it would be right to do so. So we need a comprehensive analysis and action to remedy the backlogs, but with the proposal that the backlogs be resolved in such a way that they become policy-dependent judges, they will not be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u135	Hello again! In addition to the SNS and some Members of the SDS, the SLS and Members of the national community were among the signatories to the amendment of the Constitution in the 129th Article on a permanent judicial mandate. The Ambassador of New Slovenia also supported the decision on the home working body to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution, which would introduce an experimental mandate for judges. Although the proposal did not receive the necessary support, our position has not changed. The first reason is the belief that judges are at the beginning of a permanent term without greater experience in the trial, without experience in participating in the trial process, that their level of theoretical knowledge can be excellent. Part of this comes from their youth when we name them many times before they were 30 years old as judges. Therefore, in such young people and rather inexperienced judges, it is often expected that the complex procedural nature which prolongs the judicial backlog and violates the constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time. We are aware that the trial is a task that requires not only experience, but also the ability to judge, especially the courage to make a decision, for a sentence of judgment. These are abilities that most people can learn, and exceptions are that they never win. Let me say this, but not all the judges of Solomon's wisdom. We therefore believe that the introduction of the probationary mandate would improve the work of judges and courts and have a positive impact on the responsible approach to the work we Slovenians deserve. One of the biggest problems of the Slovenian judiciary is judicial backlogs, 155 thousand cases where the rights to trial are violated within a reasonable time. They're standing in court, they're being repositioned, they're being delayed, they're not being taken into their hands. Slovenia is paying fines for this. The reputation and trust in the courts is either bewildered or lacking. The truths of love must be taken into account by the judges and accepted this part of the responsibility, especially by those who no longer perform these functions or who would no longer be affected by this change. In the opinion of New Slovenia, both the defendant and the defendant have the right to a normal trial. New Slovenia joined the movers to change the constitution, mainly because we are aware that the situation in the judiciary needs to be settled. The Executive Committee of New Slovenia supported the establishment of an eight-year probationary mandate while maintaining a further permanent judicial mandate, and we are confident that this would not undermine the independence of the courts and not of the judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Thus, the amendment of the Constitution in Article 129 or the introduction of an eight-year probationary period for judges would be excellent and very positive if we could address all these problems, which the applicant stated in a long explanation at the beginning of this point. I have already pointed out for the last time at the Commission's meeting that the trial is an unreasonable time, that is to say that it is one of the fundamental human rights violations and that it is necessary for both the Ministry or the Government and the judiciary to have in hand all the necessary measures to be taken in order to reduce these judicial backlogs or that all proceedings will take place, as we say, within a reasonable time. Already, the fact that the backlogs have increased, increased strongly, I think that since 1993, it has been clear that these delays have not been due to a permanent mandate, but mainly due to problems in the organisation of the judiciary and in the field of legislation adopted by the State or by the national assembly. Due to a wide variety of legislation that accelerates disputes and literally produces them. Thus, this amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution, as we have heard, is also opposed by the Government, and we are also convinced that such a proposal to amend the Constitution would not contribute to the judicial backlog, so we expect the Government to make appropriate changes in the field of the organisation of the judiciary and in the field of legislation which will finally begin to solve this problem once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u139	Your Honors are here! I think it has been said that constitutional changes are welcome and necessary only when they are inevitable, something in this sense. This or this would probably be true in full, but the situation in the Slovenian judiciary and the backlog, the violation of the constitutional right of trial within a reasonable time - does it not require us to amend the highest legal act, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Is this not a good enough argument to confirm the need for acceptance, or is it better for you to see what we have seen in the last 10 years, that the expert commission within the Constitutional Commission in one of the points offers a solution that judicial backlogs can be solved in another way, in other ways, but does not, of course, tell us which ways. Can we also agree on this theory that we have witnessed to her on the side, I think that the speaker before me, who is very, I do not want to be offensive, has clearly realized that we are aware of the changes - and how do we bring this necessity into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in a change of course if you do not allow us to do so? We can revolve around this hot mess of judicial backlogs, about violating the framework of unreasonable long-term decisions, but if we want to prevent it, then we must take this step, the step that is before us today and which is called the further process of constitutional change. We offer you the contents. I said at the outset, it is a rather radical intervention in the judiciary, it is about putting new elements of competition in the judiciary, and it is about making the judiciary effective. So far, we do not have any of these steps in the judiciary within our country. Therefore, to say that this is not a good enough reason to adopt the Constitution is not appropriate within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. If anything were to be a good example for an intervention into the Constitution, then these are the problems of people, citizens and citizens, their dissatisfaction with the functioning of the judiciary. For whom, though, do we write laws, not least the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Do we write them, I don't know, for us 90 Members of Parliament or do we write them for every citizen and citizen? According to my assessment, the laws must reflect the needs and solutions that will take place in the interests of citizens and citizens. This is followed by the constitutional changes we are offering you. To talk about the fact that the Slovenian judiciary is effective means that we deny the judicial backlog. Then - anyone can also say that he denies the judicial backlogs, that he denies half a million Slovenians and Slovenians. We cannot deny this in the Slovenian National Party, we cannot close our eyes to a problem as big as it is today within the Slovenian judiciary. We said at the outset that the judicial backlogs are the result of the work of the judiciary system, that the national assembly, on a proposal from the government, this and the previous government, has changed many of the sectoral laws and that there is no effect. We have said that in the framework of budgets, public financial acts, promotions and new items have been adopted for the functioning of the judiciary - but there are no effects! Therefore, today, to speak of another way of resolving the matter, we think it is high time to find out what these other ways are, if there is no acceptable way for a group of signatories to constitutional change, that is, we, all together, are obliged to do for citizens and citizens. To talk about whether good criteria or whether a good protector is a constitutional category that provides for the termination of a judicial function, I am sorry, it seems rather irrelevant to me personally. We all know that such a small number of judges who have been subject to this constitutional provision is negligible and that the reference to this solution is, excuse me, but rather irrelevant. This is about as meaningless as all of you will continue to speak, the backlogs need to be resolved in another way, while I told you that we have adopted 20 laws within our country that have not led to any solution. Personally, I am convinced that if we adopt a proposal for a constitutional law by the Slovenian National Party, we will finally take the step that all those who are more or less directly or directly bound to the work of the courts expect us to take in order to actually help them, because in the final stage this is our task. During the presentations so far, especially from the point of view of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I was particularly saddened by that - and frankly, I hoped that I would not hear it - that the solution was in the so-called Lukenda programme. What does that tell us? This confirms that Slovenian policy, whether within the executive branch or in the legislative branch of government, is only now seen in the context of the judicial backlog, when we have been warned by Europe that before all those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia called on us, this was no problem, but that only now that Europe has imposed some penalties and that we can expect a few more financial burdens for our country has this become a national problem. If you'll allow me to refer to that introductory part of me as the first to sign the amendments mentioned above. I can - but I'm afraid there are too many of you - we're also keeping our eyes closed and talking, yes, because we're increasing the financial resources of the judiciary and everything will be fine. But this is a bad trip, and we're not gonna save anything. He will also know that the intervention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is exclusively intended for the new employment of judges, namely judges, which will indeed cause a double or double level of judges within our country, and that they will be in an unequal position after a period of - I think 5 years - when some are appointed and some are loved to serve as a permanent judge. This will in fact be contrary to the other articles on equality within the Republic of Slovenia, but the constitutional category, as proposed to you in the framework of the Group of Signatories of Constitutional Amendments, does not give parallel double levels of judges, as has been said. It introduces a so-called probationary mandate and prevents what is most important, that firm legal guarantee of automatic progress, regardless of performance. In no other profession within our country is the advancement of automation. Every promotion requires some quality. And you know what the worst part is? In the National Party, we claim to be a quality only because they work normally. Not that they work fast, but that they do their regular work, that they do not cause new judicial backlogs. We're not asking them to work fast, I don't know, yet. We only demand of them that they do not have unjustifiable judicial backlogs. This is what the proposed constitutional changes, those on the tables today and waiting for them to be adopted are all about. Regardless of today's outcome of the adoption or non-acceptance of these constitutional amendments, I thank all those Members who will support the matter. At the same time, I express the hope that you will remain in the future on your decision, i.e. on a fundamental intervention into the judicial system. However, I am afraid that what happened in 2001 will happen when most of the national council decided that judges have an eight-year term with the possibility of re-election and that their term of office is checked every two years. For the fact is that even if the constitutional changes mentioned today fall, or the constitutional law, this national assembly will meet very quickly with the same or very similar proposal for constitutional changes; if not, it will come back from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. And when we get some more notifications from different international institutions, then this constitutional change will receive that required support. But why don't we do something today, when we're already eight years behind schedule, why wait for the next four years? We hear about different cases of inquality trials, read every day. More will be said by the Members and by the Member of the National Party, but not only by accepting this as a piece of news. Let's think about the content of this. And the National Party offers you, I apologize, a group of signatories coming from different parties offers you the solution that Slovenians and Slovenes will be satisfied with the way in which the trial is conducted, as well as with the prevention of so-called judicial backlogs. Allow only a sentence or two to be completed. Parliament, it was previously exposed - yes, but who is Parliament to confirm the judges? Yeah, that's what's going on right now. Anyone who denies that we don't confirm the judges, then either doesn't know his job or he's been bluffing about it. There's no issue here. We are, however, a Parliament, a representative of the people within our country. Is there anyone else? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not move to elections. Members and Members are elected in the general elections and, therefore, denying this right to Parliament, I find it inconceivable in person. We are the body directly linked to citizens and citizens. That's why so many different views in this house, so many different views. But not because of this denial of the right that this house already has, and saying that it will then lead to the politics of the judiciary. It just doesn't hold, it's very populist, very cheap, but extremely dangerous talking. This is the talk we have witnessed in this country for ten years and a few years. And this talk has caused these judicial backlogs. And the people, the Members who say that, are the main bearers of responsibility for 500 thousand judicial lags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u141	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group of this proposal is unable to support the introduction of a constitutional amendment and the amendment of the Constitutional Amendment Act as such. It is a ghastly fact that the arguments put forward by the applicants are based on assumptions that are partly fabricated, partly on flooding and partly on the ignorance of the system in which our justice system works. In fact, already in the first sentence of the explanatory statement, they claim that this is an outdated and facsimile provision on a permanent mandate, even though it is a European category and that they have a permanent mandate, so to speak, for all European countries. Furthermore, it is assumed and invents an argument that this is a system in which there is no quality assurance or quantity of work or at least that this is not possible. We think that, second, of course, the question is to what extent, where and how many times this is checked and in real life. It is also now possible to control the judicial work referred to here in order to allow the probationary mandate to do so. It is also not true that a permanent mandate ignores the principle of a rational, swift and effective trial. There is no evidence that today there is some kind of work of judges on which they are drafting a proposal to amend Article 129 of the Constitution when they say, "because, with some quality work of the judges, the constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time is violated, we propose..." and so on. Here, too, the amendments themselves speak of non-verification of the quality and quality of the work of the judges. And of course, what is most interesting is that they do not know that a permanent mandate is not untouchable. This mandate is touching. The Law on Judicial Service and the Constitution contain provisions under which a judge who does not fulfil his duties, both in respect of the Constitution and laws and in the field of labour law in terms of working discipline and timeliness, all of this can be sanctioned today by a proposal for the discharge of a judicial function. We therefore think that, by deducting the other pitfalls of the probationary mandate, which should have been introduced, it is not possible to build a constitutional change in such an important institution as the permanent mandate of the judges, which allows for the inviolability of their decisions and one of the greatest acquisitions of democratic institutions or democracy as such. It is not possible to change a permanent mandate at any time and to speedily, when we think of it in one branch of government, without the consent of the judicial branch of government, which undoubtedly knows what this means, better than we do and disagrees with it in the proposed case. We also see the pitfalls of the temporary term in that judges may, consciously or subconsciously, decide in judicial disputes in such a way that their decisions are acceptable to those politicians who, at that time, will have the opportunity to or will not be confirmed in a permanent term when the probationary period passes. It is true that what is stated in the explanatory statement is that politics should not decide through political glasses after a trial period on a permanent term, but we do not know and cannot be determined how to prevent it. In any way, it might be possible to make a political decision against a judge who, for example, at the time judged the winning option unkindly or otherwise as expected. Also in this spirit, we do not intend to allow the practice of anyone judging the decisions of a court or a constitutional court or anyone, and in this sense this thing already smells a little bit like this - in this direction. Of course, the probationary mandate also allows the platform to remove backlogs in the sense of haste, and therefore, on this waiting list, the most difficult cases, which would burden the beginners disproportionately, rather than working harder cases with longer term judges and longer case law, are much easier, much more qualitative, and not to say perhaps more time-consumingly easier and faster. Thus, this probationary mandate, as proposed, contains a number of traps that we would not like to subject ourselves to and reject in this regard, so these amendments, which is why we will not support the same proposal to initiate the procedure, nor will we support the amendment of Article 129 itself, as proposed by the signatories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the LDS delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! On behalf of the LDS Club of Members, I would like to stress the following. The fundamental condition for the existence of a rule of law and thus the legal security of an individual is an effective and impartial judiciary. The proposal for a temporary term of office submitted in such a way that the appointment of judges is left to the national assembly would endanger the independence of the judiciary. In the light of the proposal for an amendment, the judge would depend on his electoral body on the test, which would mean that it is an intervention in the independence of the judiciary. In our opinion, the permanent judicial mandate has no direct link with the judicial backlog. They would do the most to remedy the judicial backlog if they allowed additional judicial staff to be employed. The introduction of temporary judges or judges to the trial is justified by the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, but no one says that Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also provides that everyone has the right to rule on his rights and obligations by an independent and impartial court. That, too, is constitutional right. Such an attitude does not mean that we are against changing the Constitution because it would be perfect. The Constitution is changing when the climate is right, and so is the argument, the broad debate and the consensus reached. When changing, however, it is necessary to preserve all the legal state acquisitions already obtained, and therefore, in the LDS House of Members, we believe that the solutions that introduce the trial period for judges are too difficult and pretentious. In the LDS, we have doubts about the trial period for all the judges of the beginners, as, for example, a senior judge, under the current regime, could be elected a reputable lawyer who, following the proposed regulation, would be the first appointment to a judicial function, an automatic trial judge. It is true that such a person does not have direct experience with the trial, but such an arrangement could deter potential candidates and also undermine the reputation of the judiciary. With the proposed regulation, we may have an increase in the number of unoccupied seats for judges. The problem of unoccupied cities has already arisen in the case of professional co-workers for whom there is no great interest among lawyers with a judicial examination. In addition to this, there are other open issues that would require more in-depth professional solutions. In view of the comparative legal arrangements in European parliamentary democracies and taking into account the constitutional position of the President of the Republic and his powers, we believe that the trial period for judges would be acceptable only if the power to elect or appoint judges from the State Assembly is delegated to the President of the Republic or to the Council of Justice. If it is necessary to obtain approval from most Members for election to the judiciary, there is a high likelihood that candidates for judges will have to be careful not to resent the parties and Members of the parliamentary majority and thus risk refusing their candidacy, which may also be unfounded - this rejection. The proposed amendment also does not touch on the proposed function of the Judicial Council in the process of obtaining a judicial function. In the LDS, it is our intention to change the composition of the LDS in order to represent the three branches of the judiciary when the decision is withdrawn in the National Assembly on the election or appointment of the LDS. Of course, its composition should be balanced so as not to predominate politics over the profession or even to establish a judicial branch of power, so that the judges would actually elect or appoint themselves. For all these reasons, it is logical that the LDS Group cannot and will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! Today we have an opportunity, an opportunity to solve, I will say, one of the major problems that this country is facing. To solve the problem, which, I will say, in the debates you alert Members regardless of the political party you belong to. In the light of the problem that he is alerting us to, I will say, over and over again, either through parliamentary questions or in the debate on the courts, so will the Minister. Today we have this opportunity, we have tried almost everything in these 12 years to reduce judicial backlogs: from the projects of Hercules to the current project of Lukende, which have not done anything but swallow tax money and solve no problem. How long does this National Assembly plan to keep its eyes closed so that it will finally realize that this permanent judicial mandate is possible only to deal with a case that can solve the backlog? Judges in our country are, to say the least, "holy cows" untouchable. Untouchable in this respect that 12 cases have been dealt with in the last 12 years when a judge is not supposed to do his duty. This is an example of a year, an example of a year! Don't tell me that in Slovenia we have so many exemplary judges and judges who do their work in such a manner that from year to year, from month to month, from day to day, we have a backlog of judicial backlog. When we talked about the law on civil servants in this National Assembly, I can't forget the words that were spoken on the Internal Policy Committee, czech, and the judges have to work - especially here I mean investigative judges - in winter and sometimes even in the middle of the night, if a matter happens. And I'm not going to go to other professions, but I'm going to look at ours, and I'm going to say, "Messenger work," and we're not going to work in the winter? When there's a snow road, don't I have to come from Maribor to Ljubljana? I think I have to. And every other person must come: both children at school and people at work! And they don't get any overtime or supplements for that because it's winter outside. Night hours - a lot of them. If you look at the judges' salaries, not just night hours, to reduce the backlogs, you could work 24 hours a day, but I don't know if you'd be able to reduce all the backlogs in one year. In this debate, I have heard quite a few very strange arguments, particularly the statement that the European Union does not know the system of limited judicial mandates. Let me tell you, the Court of Justice of the European Community elects judges for eleven years, with the possibility of an extension of one or two years. The Court of First Instance of the European Community - Judges have a term of office of 6 years; the European Court of Auditors has a term of office of 6 years; Eurojust has a term of office of 4 years - let anyone say that Europe does not know a limited judicial mandate! Of course he does! And you know what's interesting about the fact that none of these courts have any judicial backlogs, or even none. And when I have heard indications on how, according to the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, it will appoint judges to the national assembly and it will be a political decision or a national assembly to decide whether or not to extend this mandate. Cheap demagogies sold by those who simply go for a payphone because it is written in our schedule of meetings. Who today appoints judges for a permanent term? At the end of this session, we will appoint quite a few judges for a permanent term. Members of the National Assembly, politicians - is that not a political decision today? Today's what? I believe that since the 1990s, I don't know if any of you know the professional work of any of the judges we've appointed here. You don't even remember the names from the previous session, which you called, but you say it's a professional decision today, but it'll be a political one, according to our proposal! I don't know who you want with these pretenses. The proposal from the Slovenian National Party itself will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u146	Master Žnidaršič, would you like a word? Mr. Lucky Friend, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, one is judicial backlogs, which are undoubtedly really big, and the other is, which I would like to point out, because I have actually tasted this sort of thing, the inconsistent work of some, I point out some, judges and judges. For example, if we walk through the press the previous months and days, we can see that the murder of a daughter results in a conditional or extenuating circumstance because it was her daughter. Trials are wrong; days ago you saw that, in fact, after many years, he was found a person, not guilty of murder. And nothing happened! No one was responsible for this. The convicted person for the murder had to prove year after year at his own expense that he did not commit this murder. And what happens in these cases? Nothing. We have a number of other cases that show that, in fact, some judges can easily choose their standard by essentially carrying out either separation proceedings or legacy debates, or in fact easier automatic procedures that are already pre-written and those difficult judgments are put aside, the most difficult judgments are usually long-term, long-standing and no one wants to go further into this, usually even outdated, because they are passed from judge to judge and end up having an out-of-date period and all of it rum into baskets. I myself experienced this case when the judge rightly in the legacy debate after my father's death judged my inheritance three months from now, almost four months from now, three months from now, and 14 days from now, and in fact she didn't even look at her file and disassociate me. Now I must seek justice in court to enforce her previous verdict. Really, this is happening, this is happening to me now. And what happens to a judge like that - nothing! He can't get rid of it, he can't get rid of it, he can't actually be fooled, the judges are, as we say, an independent branch of power and are somehow untouchable. Of course it's not right! It is also not right because, on the other hand, we have a number of good lawyers who might want to be judges who could do their job better than their current colleagues. In fact, there is no competition here when this circle closes once, others cannot get in because there is simply no need, as we now see here, for new judges. There is no greater ingenuity, nor can we force them to do their work normally. It's nonsense. Of course, there is a need for change here and I do not understand those who blindly advocate that there is no need for change in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u148	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. As one of the signatories to the proposal to amend Article 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, tabled by the Group of Members, I expect to face seriously the great problem that exists in Slovenia in the field of justice, which is indeed not at the appropriate level. On the one hand, it is a matter of judicial failure which, due to the increasing number of judicial judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, causes enormous property damage due to the high damages that the State must pay to victims who have not received a trial within a reasonable time or a trial without undue delay, who are constitutionally guaranteed human rights. On the other hand, we must not close our eyes to the quality of the trial itself, although judges are independent and independent in their decisions, but this fact alone does not mean that their decisions and their judgments are appropriate. Thus, in addition to an effective trial, citizens also want a quality and, above all, a fair trial, which is often not guaranteed in public opinion. In view of the current situation in the field of justice, which is certainly not satisfactory, I would rightly expect that we will try to sever the species of all those involved in the country's regulatory process, including the legal profession, and find ways that will lead to the desired objective; the aim is to improve the unsatisfactory situation in the judiciary, eliminate the backlogs that cause enormous damage to the country and increase public confidence in the justice system. Of course, the proposal for a constitutional amendment that we are considering is not the only possible and sufficient way to achieve the objective I have been talking about. Last but not least, before the recent Minister Šturm, he prepared a proposal to amend the Constitution, which relates directly to the intensification of the abolition of judicial arrears, by introducing so-called temporary judges. With all these well-intentioned proposals, one would expect good will and willingness to help find appropriate solutions for all professionals and stakeholders. But all too often, we are faced with an exact opposite response - that these proposals are not good, that they will not solve problems, that they are questionable about constitutional compliance and that many others are cited, which is why what is proposed cannot be done, cannot or cannot be done. The will to find a way to do this does not show. This is something similar to what is sometimes done in public services, or sometimes it has happened in a united work when lawyers or legal services have prepared legal opinions on how something cannot be done, rather than finding a way to do something. And I have a similar feeling here when some judges, a judicial society or a judicial council, as well as some university professors often put themselves in the role of conservationists and preventers of any change when looking for appropriate solutions. I think that at least political parties should be more constructive here. I am surprised at the opposition parties, the LDS and the Social Democrats, who are opposed to practically everything that anyone is proposing in order to solve the problems in the judiciary. As if they want the situation to not improve, in principle, as bad for the country as possible, the better for us, who can then be accused of a bad situation. This makes it more difficult for these two parties to hold back because, in their previous term of office, they are alone or in the previous term, the government in which both parties were party has proposed to introduce a trial period for judges before a permanent mandate is given to them. Now what they were backing up at the time is no longer supported and they are now rejecting the same or similar proposal. I am not saying that this proposal is the best - but why do we not want to face the problem of the judiciary and find a solution together that will be the best? A proposal by Minister Šturm to introduce so-called temporary judges was also given the same opposition, as I mentioned earlier, which would take priority in addressing judicial backlogs. Clearly, in these two parties, it is not the will of the judiciary to start solving or resolving problems. As one of the signatories to the proposal to amend the Constitution under consideration, I am aware of some of the dilemmas related to the content of this proposal. However, I have contributed to my signature in order for the interested and professional public to take the issue seriously and to participate in the preparation of possible better solutions, all in order to resolve and resolve problems in the judiciary related to judicial backlogs, as well as others, of course. Unfortunately, this did not happen, which is not a solution and is just a basis for maintaining a bad situation. The fact is that the Constitution is being amended by a two-thirds majority, which means that we can only modify individual provisions by jointly identifying an inadequate situation, an inadequate or weak current constitutional provision, on the basis of which it is virtually impossible to improve the situation, and on the basis of such findings, we are looking together for the best text of a constitutional provision that will enable the resolution of the current extremely difficult situation in the Slovenian judiciary. That is why I would like those who are now directing their energy into rejecting all the proposals only to realize that this is not about the interests of individual parties or the interests of the government, but about the wider interests of the country, where we should join forces and enable the judiciary as a third branch of government to become quality and, of course, also effective, so that the people in it will really see the institution where justice prevails. Unfortunately, that's not what people think today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Willie Rezman, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The backlogs have suddenly become a chronic argument for a probationary mandate, but this has already been discussed before. The proposals existed before there was so much talk about how many backlogs we had. It is necessary to remove these judicial backlogs, but those who oppose trial mandates cannot be guilty and we are not opposed to the reduction of backlogs. But we are the ones who feel that every instrument is not appropriate. Not the one proposed in this proposal, but some of us feel that neither are those who propose it with a temporary mandate. In doing so, we have the wrong logical conclusion. It is said that a permanent term is in itself a direct cause of judicial backlogs. On the contrary, it is argued that the probationary mandate will guarantee that there will be no more judicial backlogs or that things will be resolved in a timely manner. According to the logic of the matter, this is not the case, and even after the argument we were able to hear in the Minister's exposition of time before, it was noted that the backlogs were created in some entirely different time for purely other reasons. Not because of a permanent mandate, nor does it count that the probationary mandate could be the main or even the only lever to reduce judicial backlogs. We even think, and personally, that this is another logic, which is more evident, namely, the logic that the probationary mandate would only increase the influence of political in the judiciary, so that it would only reduce the possibility of an independent trial a little bit, in short, to have a whole range of negative consequences, without ensuring a faster resolution of the judicial backlog. For this reason, the profession, a large part of the profession, resisted support for such a proposal and, to recall, also opposed our circle, the DeSUS Group, and those from LDS and Social Democracy. It is interesting, however, that the government's rejection, which speaks of this not being appropriate and unnecessary, resisted, so to speak, one part of the coalition MPs and Members. I believe that from then on it has been long enough for them to reconsider their position and that they will not support this proposal today. We're not going to support the proposals in any way. We believe that there must be other ways, other means. But we are not exactly Members of Parliament who need to find this, it is probably on the side of the Ministry and their professional services.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u152	Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr I have no doubt about the well-intention of our colleagues and colleagues who have proposed an amendment to the Constitution in order to reduce or affect the reduction and elimination of judicial backlogs. You could say to the treated one of the plagues of modern times or our independence. The only problem I see here is that the correlation between judicial backlogs and a permanent term is irrelevant or not at all. And I'm going to make my case for that. First of all, if I give the arguments of authority, I can say that this is what the majority of the profession thinks, and when I say the majority part of the profession, I hope to argue 90.95% of my colleagues and colleagues, so I think of the judiciary society, so I think the Council of Justice and so until recently our esteemed colleague, Dr. Sturm. Let me say, in the case of the many singing and criticisms of last year's Days of Slovenian Lawyers in October, there was a round table entitled Law and Policy, and there Dr Šturm said on the explicit question of Professor Udet, what did he think about the sustainability or non-sustainability of the judicial mandate, that he clearly and loudly opposed the termination of the permanent judicial mandate and wished to extend his applause to more than 500 present. To some extent, of course, it is now changing its position. But the point is that he does not want to interfere with what he has actually contributed to democracy and the formation of our new constitution. When I mentioned the profession, I should mention once again the opinion of the section on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was written by Dr. Tone Jerovšek and Dr. Lojze Ude. Dr. Loise Uda, now I'm going to be a little mean, that expert that some of the proponents so sung when dealing with mutual insurance. And what does Dr. Lois Uda say, among other things? He says that the proposal raises several concerns that the division of judges to those with a permanent and temporary term of office is already in itself controversial, mentioning that a similar regime exists in some countries, for example in Germany, but that trial period for judges is different. It is a matter of minor powers, in a way of narrowing the performance of the judicial function, as in the case of judicial assistants or professional workers, so that we cannot simply compare their probationary years with ours, with our proposed ones. And Dr. Ude also says, "The backlogs in the courts," and I now quote, "which, given their scope and the slow decline, undoubtedly threaten the right to justice, are not the result of a permanent mandate". And then, of course, it goes on. What's the effect on the court's backlog? My opinion is that the following factors should really be addressed. And that as soon as possible, yesterday. Undoubtedly, fundamental reform is to begin with. In 1991, not only did we get independent states, but we also received from a single country everything that was previously divided either to a federal and a republican level or to a variety of specific courts that are now gone, we have separated the basic courts into district and district courts, reduced the number of higher courts and could still be listed. The second factor, which is very important, is unfortunately the ingrained desire of Slovenian life for justification. Lawyers use complicated and ugly foreign "quarulation", but that's a fact. Soon the rule will no longer apply to man to be a wolf, but to man to be a Slovenian. And if he doesn't like anything, he's going to bring this fellow man to court to seek his right within such a time or another. The problem is poor, very poor enforcement of judicial decisions. For such or other reasons, and this poor enforceability of decisions once again has a resurgence of influence on pishmeurism. It is easy for people, no matter what happens, the debtors expect that the process will last so long that it will either expire or others will forget it, but the creditors, of course, do not have any more options, because even if they get a legal decision, this decision will be very late, which means they will not find their right. Youth and the inexperience of judges and judges also affect judicial backlogs. Of course, the problem is that when we compare our country with others, someone who is 30 years old simply can't make such a good, ethical, and even ultimately so professional decisions as someone in the Anglo-Saxons countries, which has 20, 30 years more practice. And if we add functional illiteracy, which is also present in law school and also in law school graduates, then the problem is so much bigger. Unfortunately, my experience is that too many young people's rights and lawyers can't write a basic suit, can't write a court decision, then, when they're preparing for a judicial exam, they learn to some extent, but not enough. More than that, they can't write a simple job application or anything. There's still a lot to be done here. And some experts even point to another key case, which does not apply only to lawyers, because the house is walled from the foundations. They say that in Slovenia we are dealing with very poor civic education, which is learned from kindergarten, primary school and high school, or from secondary school, and should also say something here. Another important factor affecting judicial backlogs, and I will now sound probably very heretic, because I have already written about it, but I am sure that my colleague, the Secretary of State, will agree with me, is said to be too few times: lawyers and the tariff system, which they have invented, are also contributing to judicial backlogs. The tariff system motivates lawyers to delay procedures as long as possible and draw on their customers and clearly bring the matter to an end after five, ten years. And when it is absolutely clear to everyone that no extraordinary remedy will be possible to modify a specific decision, no, they will continue with an emergency, because that means an additional profit. Why not change the system as in Germany and increase the possibility of participation in the amount claimed - Americans call it "contingency fee" - with us, I think it is still limited to 15%, on the principle of "no girl no payment", which means that if a lawyer loses justice, of course he also bears the costs, and vice versa, if he gets the truth, then he can participate as a percentage of the higher percentage. I do not advocate leaving the tariff system entirely, but there is some compromise to be found. And so far, lawyers are avoiding this problem as a fraction of the cross. Why? They're part of the justice system, too. There is also a lack of prevalence of alternative dispute resolution in judicial backlogs - this is already being done, but too little, too little, has been used to prevent, for example, inspection services and what else could be found, but I think that is enough at the moment, a waste of the bisag of arguments talking about why there are backlogs. The sustainability of some small percentage may also be present, namely the sustainability of the mandate, but the core of the problem lies in what I have been talking about. Some colleagues said that already existing legal mechanisms had an impact on the possibility of sanctioning judges, making progress, and could also motivate them to do better. Let me just give you a few. The Law on Judicial Service, for example, lays down criteria for the selection and advancement of the judge and the procedure for assessing judicial work. The Council of Justice shall be responsible for the reception, and shall also do so, the criteria for the minimum expected extent and criteria for the quality of the work of the Judges. For judges, it is possible to make a personal council assessment of the judicial service, to have a judge's work subject to official supervision and to have several other such mechanisms in existing legislation. Of course, we can ask ourselves again why it is not better than it is, why there are still 500 thousand judicial backlogs, as some point out. Probably because of all the arguments I have mentioned before, and also because of the status and position of the judge in our society. In recent times, judges have been responsible for everything that has been criticised by the executive and legislative authorities, by the public. On the other hand, no one wonders how it is possible that, for example, a judge who has more than 15 years of experience will come to a court where there are already 3,000 judicial setbacks that, theoretically, cannot be solved alone, with too few judicial assistants and professional associates and a salary that will remain the same until the end of his career. In particular, I am talking about a judge with whom I even live and who has a salary of 390 000 SIT net, so that he can't earn any extra tolar. I can also, in a limited way, with a profession, with professional hard works and so on, by writing articles. They're nothing. That is why, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure and will tell you why - actually more than 20 years from the study period - that a permanent mandate is a condition for the independence of the trial and that it is not a condition for remedying backlogs. In 1983, when I listened to the excellent lectures of Dr. Ljub Bavcon, he recommended that we read the book Vuk Draskovic. Let us now let his political action be disturbed, but a beautiful book entitled Judge, I recommend it - I will not mention which publication has released it, because it is probably over because Members can do it. But it's this book that's talking about the impact of politics, the current policy on the judge's work. And someone asked me where the applicants got an eight-year trial period -- yeah, right back then, the judges' mandate was at that time for eight years. If I can read Article 230 of the Constitution of the SFRJ, the mornings of Yugoslavia, some of you still remember this, and a similar article was also in the Slovenian Constitution, he said: "The judges of the regular courts are elected and resolved in a manner, under conditions and procedures that ensure the professional capacity and moral and political fitness to perform the judicial function and the independence of the judges in the trial." Moral-political fitness." This is not currently in the constitution, probably for some substantial reason, but if judges had a limited mandate, of course this moral and political appropriateness would occur over and over again either at the main or the biased doors. If the judge did not judge as he would have liked, he could, of course, have been penalised so that he would not have been elected in the next term. I'm sorry, you may be very coalition MPs, but I'd remember my colleague Shkrk's name again, but for the first time it didn't work out, why, because in some constitutional matter, she made a decision just as obviously it wasn't right for many. This same article provides that judges were elected for a certain period of time and that was then prescribed by special law. Let me quote, very interestingly, a piece of conversation that our main hero has in this book, Judge, with the secretary of the committee. There is probably no need to explain which policy options, since at that time there was more or less just one. This is how it went, and the judge says, "Sorry to reach out to you, I never said. But I tell you, as long as I'm only a judge, I'll always be closer to a man than an order, closer to freedom than power, closer to society than the state." And the judge continues to say to the secretary, "Look, I'm not afraid to execute Christ or be one of the gods, I'm only afraid, and I'm afraid that I'm going to kill a man in a man, but you keep telling me and driving me to this murder." - end of quote. Would this not be the case with a limited mandate when further pressure is placed on judges? There is also a controversial way to vote. However, why we do not go into whether it is really appropriate, colleague Peca has mentioned several times, of course, quite correctly, that we Members are deciding the fate of judges, at least in the first election, later on this function of the Council of Justice. Why don't we depoliticize this process and leave this authority to the Council of Justice or even to the President of the State, by stressing that when I talk about the President of the State, we don't personalise this function, as we sometimes immediately thought of Mr Kučan, now probably Drnovsk, but tomorrow someone else will be the President of the country. I speak abstractly. Personally, by the way, I have already proposed amendments and amendments to the law on the elections of Slovenian candidates for international courts and have proposed that the President of the country decide on these candidates. And I'm already recommending in advance for support that I probably won't get, but still, saying is not a sin. And I'm done. Some European courts, including international courts, have been mentioned. It is impossible for our regular courts to compare, for example, with the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which exists for a few years or with the International Court of State in The Hague, or with the International Tribunal in Hamburg, or could still be listed. These courts, dear colleagues and colleagues, have one essential advantage and speciality before the ordinary courts: they decide on their own decision. They don't make all the decisions! And even some national courts, to mention only the US Supreme Court, which is also a Constitutional Court, each year, set a quota for those cases that would have a significant impact on the case law and so on and so on and so on, and they make an in-depth and negotiated decision. So again, I regret to say that such a proposal, but it can still be so voluntary, I cannot support it, but I am prepared to do everything we can to go where we need to, in the case of fundamentals, in the case of original sin, not in changing the constitution. The Constitution should be amended with a shaking hand and, when it comes to the position of judges, this deadline should be shaken so as not to be possible to write a single letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u154	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I listened attentively to my colleague Paulich, and I think it is a shame that he was not the Minister of Justice in the previous term. Maybe there's something else we can solve. By the way, we have seen that the answers to these questions about a permanent judicial mandate or trial judges are not entirely uniform and the question of the rule of law is indeed raised. The permanent mandate is in a way one of the postulates of a modern rule of law. I'm sure that's true. However, in some ways we must count the right to a fair and timely trial among the legal states. So we have a permanent mandate, we have the lifetime immunity of Slovenian judges, so one of the postulates of modern rule of law, but let's ask ourselves, do we have another point that I mentioned? So whether it is guaranteed to all people, all Slovenes the right to a timely and fair trial. We could've heard it here more than once. Again, the question is whether this second can be achieved at the expense of the first, is whether the right to a timely and fair trial can be achieved at the expense of a permanent term or by the introduction of judges to the test. Then this needs to be discussed, so we are here after all. Today, it has been said several times that there are enough legal options for judges to remove out-of-work, dishonest, inappropriate judges from the courts. In recent times, we have read about a judge in the Maribor District Court who has lost her judicial function by a negative assessment of the Council of Justice. But this judge, this ex-judgment, she just changed her clothes and stepped in with the lawyers. So she stayed in justice. It was indeed exported to Koroška, which is clearly a suitable region for the export of affairs and everything else. There are probably more cases like this that don't come out. According to my opinion, the Presidents of the Courts are collegiately advising the Judges to withdraw from their functions, to leave this position before it is necessary to cut down on a more fundamental measure, and to come out of this judicial service in a way that is clean and beautiful. In the previous term of office of the Judicial Council, the period from 1999 to mid-2004, the judicial function ended with 96 judges. There were two of them who received a negative assessment of the judicial service. In some other cases, death occurred, in 45 cases the judge was retired, and 45 cases were cited for another reason. In addition to the judicial council, judges have their own disciplinary court. One case has been brought this year. Last year there were two cases that had not yet been completed; in 2004, a disciplinary court issued a written reminder to one judge; in 200e, three proposals for individual investigations were submitted against judges; in 2002 the disciplinary court had no proceedings. So on this side, Slovenian judges are almost saints. In no way does the judiciary work in such a way as to say that we are talking about a state of law that is the foundation of every democracy. Of course, this is not just about judges, we can say that in Slovenia it creaks in the legal system as a whole. In some ways, all taxpayers will pay for the backlogs that have been discussed today. With payouts, the penalty is about 150 billion dollars. It's a threat. The number of judicial backlogs increased from 1994 to 1996, but who was then responsible for running the country increased from 240 000 to around 600 000. This time is around 155 thousand cases before the courts in Slovenia in which individuals could exercise the right to a trial without undue delay and could also be listed. It also raised the question of who should elect a judge for a permanent term: whether we are Members of the National Assembly, it is the President of the State, whether it is the Council of Justice, in order to avoid politicisation as much as possible. Whether it is us Members or whether it is the President of the State - politicalisation here we will probably not be able to avoid, both in direct elections and in some way contaminated by politics. Perhaps it would be worth considering the fact that we would leave this to the judiciary as a truly independent independent and professional body, where, once again, sufficient influence by the executive and legislative authorities must be ensured. Of course, in order to avoid the judicial branch of power being placed above all other branches of government, something is happening today between the lines. Let's just look at cases of wage cuts or some other attempt, the smallest attempt to interfere with the rights of judges when they squander your species and go to the trenches. When it comes to the right to a timely trial, their answers are short, often rather cynical. Give us the money, give us the new judges. However, there is no critical view of itself, of its own kind, no initiatives to improve the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, nothing about regulation, nothing about internal control, only requirements. I also avoided the appointment of judges in the National Assembly. I remind you, for example, of our fellow Member, Iva Praise, who is being summoned by one of the judges for whom he did not press the "yes" button. Today, Ivu Praises for the words spoken in this National Assembly threatens to pay a daily penalty amounting to 240,000 tolars, for one pensioner, our former fellow Member is by no means small. When the idea of the trial age came back to the judges, it came in the court line to a great resistance, they started shouting and shouting, if we wanted to influence the political branch of power, but the intention of all the signatories, all the signatories, and I was among them myself, is really fair. The introduction of the probationary mandate is related only to the assessment of the competence, ability, effectiveness and effectiveness of a candidate for a permanent term of office and nothing less. The probationary mandate is something completely normal, not some kind of excess, as it is trying to show here, and it is also discussed by certain articles from the Slovenian legal profession. I will mention just a few of these; Marijan Pavčnik talks about the role of judge in the 1997 Legal Bang. He says, among other things, "The first election must not be a permanent term; it should be a trial judge in the first term." Matjaž Debelak, 2006 legal year of scratch, the probationary mandate for judges and judges also speaks in the text and answers the question about the probationary mandate. Thus, I quote: "The introduction of a probationary mandate for judges would, however, be a partial intervention in the principle of the sustainability of the judicial function, but it would not be contrary to it, nor would it be contrary to the principle of the independence of the judiciary." The European Charter on the Legal Regulation of Judges also permits a trial period, but requires that the period be as short as possible, and that an independent body, which is the Council of Justice in Slovenia, should participate in the decision to accept a candidate for a judge or not for a permanent term. In fact, the probationary mandate would represent only one of the additional institutions of braking and balance in the system of division of power. There's something else about these articles. I'll vote for these changes myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u157	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, all these solutions that we tell about today are possible, and each one certainly has its own advantages and weaknesses. I will object to the abolition of the secret mandate of the judges mainly because I feel that the permanent term of judges, however, gives more good than bad. The arguments I listened to this afternoon, but in fact, they make me feel even more inclined to do so. Here we have heard again some personal stories, experiences, problems people have. Some were, of course, exaggerated. But I think it's too much to link a permanent term and judicial backlog. Of course, the matter has never been proved this way. On the other hand, we need to know that judicial backlogs, as they do to some, are very happy. If not, one part of the judiciary or branch of this activity is lawyers, and of course all those who delay all these proceedings. You know, it's not just the judges, it's the officials, it's the individuals, the witnesses who aren't coming, it's the people who aren't responding, and so on and so forth. It's a real kind of national sport. And the solution by limiting the mandate would certainly not bring anything positive. On the other hand, of course, it could bring much more negative if the other was not questioned in this way by the independence of the judiciary or even reduced, of course it would also reduce the sovereignty of the judges, who, after all, at this point in time for the trial, for the way they judge, are responsible for themselves and are completely independent. On the other hand, we have a series of instruments in this country that can also limit different wills. Now, how we use it or not use it, that's another question, but certainly with the change of constitution we wouldn't solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u158	Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I have heard several times today, and I would like to appeal to all those who, I don't know, don't you understand the changes we're talking about right now, not least, do not end the permanent term of office. I hope you've read the text of the constitutional law well and know what he's talking about. It is only a trial period of 8 years after which judges, if of course they turn out to be their professional and quality work, have the opportunity to be elected for a permanent term of office. Last but not least, the changes that are before us today on the table are talking about improving or trying to improve quality; improving the efficiency of the judicial system and, last but not least, maintaining independence. Let me remind you, there were some 530,000 pending cases in the courts in 2005. I'm not going to talk about everything my colleagues said in front of me, but I'm going to talk about specific cases. Finally, the analysis of judicial backlogs and the reasons for these judicial backlogs also suggests that judges are also responsible for the occurrence of judicial backlogs, particularly for inaction. I said that I would talk about specific cases, but I hope that Comrade Gulič will not say in the end that this is an exaggerated story. The father, who committed a crime of sexual assault against a person under 15 years of age, was sentenced to three years in the Ljubljana District Court. The criminal offence of sexual assault against a child is punishable by a sentence of 3 to 15 years in prison, in one of the cases I have on the bench, the court handed down to the accused, under the legal minimum, because he believed that he could use special pardon clauses. The defendant has not yet been punished, it has been a one-time act, he has not been particularly violent, but he must, after all, take care of his 7-year-old daughter. A 58-year-old defendant from around Ljubljana was sentenced to three years and ten months in the Ljubljana District Court because he sexually abused a 10-year-old girl, using force. Although it was a serious act, he was considered to have been significantly reduced during the course of the act, to have had no dealings with the court so far, and to have been obliged to care for his son. Because of the sexual harassment of a slightly less developed girl, a 48-year-old swimming teacher was convicted in the Court of Ljubljana. He's supposed to have a 13-year-old on his body and his bathing suit. The court found him guilty of sexual assault on a person under 15 years of age. The teacher complained to the higher court and succeeded. Thus the trial will have to start from the beginning, this time in front of the second Chamber of Justice, for the first time. Let me remind you, this story has been going on since 2002. Another case where the court decided only on probation. A male middle-aged man who sexually abused two girls was sentenced to probation in a Ljubljana court of law. He was sentenced to one and a half years in prison for eight years of occasional abuse, and a year in prison for another. A single sentence has been fixed for a year and 10 months in prison, but a man will not be required for bars unless he commits a new crime during the probationary period of three years. The judgment is not yet binding. In 1975, Uhernik was sentenced to 10 years in prison for suspicion of murder, despite many of the evidence holes. He spent eight years in a prison in the Age, then he was released. Since then, he has sought to reopen the proceedings and in 2003 the Supreme Court has accepted the efforts. After the reopening of the proceedings, the Supreme Court, which had heard several witnesses who had not been heard at the first hearings, withdrew the indictment. The judge who was on trial at the time, now in retirement, said, among other things, that the judge judges by law and conscience. I ask whether the conscience can really justify an incorrect trial, for errors in procedural proceedings, and not least for such long judicial backlogs. The court sentenced Mojco Žužek, who stabbed her 11-year-old daughter during the argument to death, to two years in prison and, as a relief, took into account that she had murdered her own child. Topolian must defend himself for sexual assault against a person under 15 years of age, and it has been 15 years since the event. It's a story from today's magazine. He is accused of qualifying forms of sexual assault on a child by force or threat, otherwise the crime would have been obsolete. The court now has a year to bring the matter to a final verdict, if not, and the case will still expire after fifteen years. For one more example, I'd like to warn you. A description of the communication of the Judge of the Council at the District Court in Ljubljana on the applications made for the action and the proposal to issue only a provisional order on contacts between a four-year-old girl and her father who was accused of sexual abuse. The first claim was called on 19.7.2005, the second claim for 15.9. but the claim was lodged in the absence of the suspect and the third claim was then fixed for 11.10.2005. On this request, the judge asked the mother of this girl for a 14-day deferral with the argument that she had gained the opinion of pedopsychology in the meantime and needed time to look at the criminal record and the writing of the pedophile. The fourth complaint was called for on 22.11.2005, to which the judge invited a battalion of witnesses, but they were still not interrogated either by the girl’s mother or by a suspect. On that request, the judge made a serious procedural error, which led to the dismissal of the lawyer at the request and a request for a judge was made. And the fifth plea was called for 13.12.2005, where the mother and the suspect were finally heard and the judge stated that the request for her expulsion had been rejected and that she could continue the trial. At the same time, she stated that she would issue a provisional order on contacts. The provision itself was issued on 30.12.2005. Thus, the judge has spent a total of six months or five orders to issue an order when, according to case law, one to a maximum of two orders are required to determine such a determination because such an order is a key instrument to protect the injured person. In this case, I will reiterate, the girl was only four years old and two months old.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank my colleague, Vice-President, for having held the meeting so far. I invite Mr. Sok to the floor if he wants to have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u161	Yes, please. Thank you for your word. So, since I am also one of the signatories to this proposal, I would like to explain why I have decided to co-sign a proposal for a probationary mandate, which is not in any way equivalent to a permanent mandate. So a permanent term is one matter and a probationary term is another. Before that, I would like, Madam Vice-President, if I may answer you, not to have previously applied to the replica of Mrs Škrkova's judge. So, I recommend you read the magnetogram, because then I told myself why I won't vote for it, and if you read the magnetogram, you'll see that in that magnetogram it says that I don't object to the decision of the Constitutional Court, but that I don't agree that the Constitutional Court has not ruled. The Constitutional Court itself - i.e. I understand if it takes a decision to keep a law, then it has to make a final decision in due course. If he doesn't do it, then I understand it as a backlog. I understand it as a backlog, and I don't agree with the court's backlog. What's the decision, and that's their autonomous right. Of course, if that were the case, it would be best for everyone to say good luck about the court and then it would seem that everything in this country is as it should be. But, look, the previous government itself ordered a German judge, Doukoff wrote to come and study the work in our courts. The report that we could all read in this country was extremely inexcusable for our court. Those findings there, some people here have already repeated them, were that we have 100 thousand more judges than in Germany, that our judges are better paid, even one case was written in, which was very burdensome. It has been written that our judges spend most of their time thinking about how to increase their wages. I didn't write that, it was written in that report! And instead of our courts then being aware of this reality and trying to do something on this segment, there was a major attack on this German judge, if he did not understand our reality, that he did not understand our reality, that he was too little time, etc. In general, the report was somewhat torn apart by the highest judicial representatives in the public. I said that the judges and the courts themselves should start to understand why there is so little publicity. Otherwise, the National Assembly does not have a good reputation, but we accept too many laws, I think we are still working too hard and that this contributes to our reputation. As regards the findings of some fellow Members who say, if, on the basis of a trial mandate, the Council of Justice or the President of the Republic were to decide, then we would agree, because the National Assembly, but not because the judges should be careful how they judge, I don't know, the parties, the political parties, the Members so that they would not be punished for their trial. So, this seems to me to be one such argument without a grain of salt, because now the National Assembly is deciding on all the judges. All Judges shall be appointed by the National Assembly for a permanent term of office. But it is true - and now I am moving on to why I signed this proposal myself - that these judges are extremely young. These are the judges who have been there for 31 years at most. I understand that when the judge comes to the courtroom, he needs to know what he wants to do. He must have a detailed plan. If he doesn't have it - I don't know, I think you said it - then lawyers can use the word "driving" in their own way. I've already witnessed these court cases where lawyers did what they wanted. This is because he is a judge because of his inexperience - I will call this inexperience - he was not prepared to conduct this procedure as he should be. And if they took over this probationary mandate, I think that in some way they would also help these young judges, who are often afraid of their decisions, do not know what they would do. And if in this way they were allowed to have some kind of credit during this trial period, some way of testing, then it would be easier for them to start this permanent judicial mandate. Thus, a judge of 30 or 31 years of age is left to himself and his decision. Look, you don't have to repeat it, but practically for all such important professions as, say, a doctor's profession or in many other areas, you have to have some introduction period. It is also for the Inspector, for example, a condition that he has five years of working time, that he may be appointed as an inspector, and that he can then run procedures autonomously. It is said that a judge does not need a trial period before that, but can suddenly become a judge with a permanent term of office. Furthermore, some colleagues said that, in fact, there is a permanent mandate everywhere, in all European countries, but of course it does not. Several European countries have a probationary mandate, and even in the European Court of Justice, as has already been explained, are not appointed judges for a permanent term of office, but no one wonders whether the impact of policy on the judge is so strong that the judge does not therefore lead the proceedings as he should. I also understand, and thus conclude that independence cannot in any way constitute inviolability. I myself understand these discussions by some of the opposition's fellow Members in this direction: nothing should happen if everything remains the way it is. This "just like" is not good, of course, that's bad. I am also not sure that this probationary mandate would have a significant impact on the reduction of procedures, but it would certainly have contributed. The problem, of course, is that this will start to work only a few years from now, and we need solutions to solve these many judicial setbacks and solutions in this direction in order to avoid all these payments due to an unreasonable trial, and we need these decisions immediately. That is why we also understand the efforts of Minister Sturm to resolve this situation in some way. Look, 155 grand, I think there was a statement somewhere, 155 thousand of those cases in the courts for which people can apply for damages due to an unreasonable trial. On such a matter, I think, at such a terrible financial request, the country can go bankrupt. You think, ladies and gentlemen in the opposition, that if you help change this power and then take over, so that you don't have to solve it - of course you will have to. All of this will have to be resolved. And I think that this proposal of Minister Sturm should be taken with all seriousness and help these things that began to accumulate in years, I do not know, 1994, 1995, 1997, is said mainly at the time when you also had the power to try to resolve these matters with common powers for the benefit of all citizens. I don't know if citizens and citizens are going to take this for you so that tens of billions will go to pay for these judicial backlogs. We can't afford this in this country. In New Slovenia, we expect so much reason to prevail and we will support this proposal by Minister Šturm on constitutional change and the introduction of these temporary judges and thus contribute to reducing these setbacks. I think that Dr. Pavlich, who is a very good lawyer and perhaps it is a shame that he was not his own time as a justice minister so that he could make a big difference in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you so much for the criticism and the commendation. It's Mrs. Uhanova's turn. [[She's not here.]] I ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to speak. Then I give my word to the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u163	Your Honors are here! I would like to respond to some of the points raised in the debate. Basically, I must say, I am glad that this kind of communication has taken place, and in particular that most of you have been concerned about judicial backlogs. I believe that if this time constitutional change fails, the constitutional changes that we offer you to receive from the Group of Members will be the next, which we will also make by the Group of Members. I would like to point out three very important facts, which were, however, highlighted in the recital. I think they are so important that you can play the most important guidance in your decision whether to continue with the constitutional change process or to reject us at a given time. In 1991, in our country, 207.356 cases of judicial failure were more than half a million, or 533.225, respectively. Whoever claims in the Chamber today that this problem does not exist that these are supposed problems - and I think that one of DeSUS's representatives has spoken in this direction, then of course this is not true and I regret that there is such a lack of knowledge of relations within the judicial branch of power in our country. I am also sorry that there is no representative here, because, of course, I think that the Secretary of State, as a number of other Members or Members, could explain to him that they are holding these numbers and that the problem of judicial backlogs in our country is clearly one of the major problems and that it will be necessary to deal with them as soon as possible, so that it is necessary to close our eyes or not to recognise judicial backlogs as being ripe for any political party, especially for citizens and citizens. In doing so, allow me to say only more growth coefficients or growth index compared to 1991 in the field of judicial backlogs. This index is 267%), which means that the backlogs are incomprehensiblely increasing. The question of the independence of judges and the independence of the third branch of the judiciary was raised several times below. As you probably know, independence lays down the introductory part of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines authority, namely, the executive, legislative and judicial branches of power. Thus, at the first writing of the Constitution, the founder clearly spoke of the separation of powers. Therefore, to say that an intervention, as proposed, would lead to a constitutional breach of the independence of the judiciary, does not. At the same time, allow me to say or read the European standard of independence of the judge, namely, judges who are loved individually and in parliaments, have a high constitutional status that gives judges a position outside the judiciary. We are therefore without prejudice to the independence of the judge in the context of the proposed judicial changes or constitutional changes. Allow me to quote from this title another very important sentence which confirms the theory of all those who give us exactly as part of the changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, namely that the institutional independence of Slovenian judges proves the Council of Justice, its appointment and its composition. When talking about why it does not reach into the framework of the judiciary by some Members, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to inform you from this place that any of you has this opportunity, as I have used it and a group of Members, and that you can propose such interventions. It's not your inactivity to report in this way, but why didn't you do it? Each of you, too, Mr Vice President Pavlich, has this opportunity, and I advise you to use it sooner than to criticize why no one else has done it. In addition, as far as the representative's words on the filling and ignorance of matter are concerned, I must also say that, as regards the sustainability of the judicial mandate, the proposed constitutional amendment does not end the permanent judicial mandate, so we introduce the so-called interim judicial mandate and, after eight years, allow the possibility of a permanent judicial mandate. Such arrangements are not unique within the European Union or in the Member States of the European Union, nor are they unique within the framework of the global criterion, even before this is quite common when we are talking about an initial judicial mandate. As regards the speech within the institutions of the European Union, as my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, has pointed out, let me reiterate that all the institutions of the European Union dealing with judicial decisions relating to the mandate, and yet none of you accuses them of not being autonomous and similar things as are evident to me and the group of Members who have signed up under our proposal for constitutional changes. Allow me to read them at least once more from this place: the Court of Justice of the European Community with 11 members is loved for a period of 6 years, and the Court of First Instance of the European Community has a mandate of 6 years. The mandate is also given by the European Court of Auditors for 6 years, hereinafter referred to as Eurojust, where the mandate is four years and nine years in the field of the International Criminal Court. And if the answer given by the honourable Member of Paul is that such institutions cannot be compared with domestic judicial institutions, it is perfectly true. Comrade Paul, of course I agree with you completely. There's no way to compare them. As cannot be compared with the judicial backlogs within the home country and within such institutions. You are, of course, missing this part in your debate, because the fact is that there are no judicial backlogs in these institutions, unfortunately, and we are subject to the number of judicial backlogs within domestic judicial institutions and let me tell you once again that the country has over half a million inhabitants. As regards the following observations we received in the context of the proposal or the suggestion that it was necessary or that, in the days of lawyers taking place in Portorož, one of the proponents received a round of applause because he replied that they should remain permanent judicial mandates, and it was necessary to say that in the Court of Auditors, 500 you said, colleague Pavlih, there were lawyers sitting, so it was their future services, and I believe that each of these 500 was very happy that he would once have a permanent judicial mandate. This is quite understandable and I find very underestimating to the National Assembly, that of course you are deceiving it by not telling who is sitting in the Auditorium and that the answer was, of course, intended for them. Below you find or quote and encourage Dr. Rodet’s idea, which you took from him in the field of insurance law. I only believe that it would make sense on the part of Members who speak of the autonomy or competence of a particular lawyer, either to attribute or withdraw, but not to move left and right. And when we communicate, my colleague Pavlich, let me only point out that the constitutional changes that we are proposing within the group of signatories are, of course, identical to those constitutional changes that the previous Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the constitutional procedure, and I remind you that you were one of the members of that government, so this kind of constitutional procedure has also gone with your thirst, and today you are so very opposed to it. And I find it very funny that a person changes so much over the course of three years, before giving consent to such constitutional changes, then, of course, he finds everything in them the worst. Please also allow me to look back or look back, I believe that there is a slightly more sinister hint, as far as the eight-year period proposed by the applicants is concerned, and that we have taken it back after the normative part of the regime of the former SFRJ. And of course you've been able to tell us that we're taking the justice system from there. This is about this, just before you were present within the Liberal Democracy Group, I think Mrs Shirca and the seven Members, but to say that it is Snow White and seven sticks. In this case, your statement has also been made, and I believe that it has been spoken in this sense. And if you allow, there have been quite a few cases of how, instead of limiting the judicial mandate to approach a more effective judicial system, you have highlighted some Members, including you, Comrade Pavlich, that in Slovenia there are just too young judges who are not part of their work. Let me remind you from this point that just days ago, the Council of Justice responded to the proposed constitutional changes, as proposed by us, and to government constitutional changes, which are also valid and in which the Council of Justice sees as one of the solutions the appointment of junior judges. I mean, not only do you, Comrade Pavlich, but all those who oppose you don't object, but they do because they suggest someone else. See, the system that we offer you, we offer you a good system, a system that will not allow such anomalies as you have witnessed through stories that my fellow Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has quoted from the daily newspaper, where it is seen that because of the inadequacy of the work which is not allowed by the end of the period of permanent judicial mandate, people suffer not only because of decisions, failure to decide, non-responsibility, but especially those involved in the execution of individual cases in which the backlogs in our country are very large. It has been exposed many times and has been made clear to the view that, under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, there are instruments through which an individual judge is possible, say, to punish in the manner envisaged by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it is very important to stress what colleague Petek has stressed before me and I regret that I missed in my opening part, as regards the disciplinary court and their frequency of work or the call to disciplinary responsibility of individual judges, in 2002 there were not one, in 2003 there were three, in 2004 one, in 2005 two and so far in this half of 2006. We cannot therefore say that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the quality of our country's trial. However, the fact is that he is also one of the Members, or I believe that without realizing, which also opposes our proposal, he said that the judges are only responsible to themselves. That's right. And we're trying to change that in a given situation, of course. We believe that it is not the judge's intention to ensure solely his existence, but, above all, that he executes a trial, such a trial that will not cause torment and other negative things below. And we have met several times, at least in the context of today's debate or discussions on similar topics, with the possibility of deciding Members, i.e. weighing when they place two values on the scale. And we also have this opportunity today to weigh whether the judge's more valuable right to a permanent term of office from beginning to end or whether he is a more valuable citizen's right and a citizen's right to a trial within a reasonable time. In my opinion, but this is now entirely mine, of course, this dilemma should not be, and if mine were to apply, the right or stronger right is, above all, the right of citizens and citizens to be judged within a reasonable time. But of course, the decision is yours, most likely to be unreasonable to me, as some of them have by now, when you prefer to increase the rights of the perpetrators rather than increase the rights of the victims or those who do not understand me in the given situation, when you have repeatedly rejected and increased the rights of the pedophiles and rejected the rights of the children. Once again, I appeal to all Members and Members, i.e. you, who have the option of deciding whether to continue the procedure or to stop today, to decide that the backlogs within our country represent such a burden, as do most citizens and citizens, and therefore approach in such a way that we can say fundamentally that from now on we want to have a more effective judiciary. And a more effective judiciary is one of the results produced through such constitutional changes, at least under that part of the judicial mandate, when it passes from a temporary judicial mandate to a permanent judicial mandate. According to our assessment, it would be reasonable, wise and necessary to adopt constitutional changes or proposals for constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much. You probably realize, colleague, that with your rhetorical boxing you have crossed a few boundaries of ethical and moral conduct in Parliament because you know that I cannot defend myself from this place or can't replicate it. But that's your style I'm not going to touch. But it wasn't communication, as you put it, it was monologue. I think that's how that word is defined. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u165	Mr Vice-President Pavlich, I would like to ask you if you could tell me what article provides for a one-time dialogue in the framework of the National Assembly. Whenever I run a session or anyone else, there's always a monologue, because there's only one right to speak at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u166	Mr. Pece, I quote you, you said when we were communicating, you continued the sentence. We're not communicating, you were talking, but I was listening. No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. And since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1,? And I'd like to ask if you'd like to thank me very much. [[...]] Mr. Master Grimes, you have five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Only to this beautiful bouquet of judicial excesses under which the judgment is written on behalf of the people, allow me to add two more flowers, first of all to remind you of the famous Elan case, where the explanation was written so long that the case was obsolete when the judgment had already been delivered. About hurting people and those we pay for it as taxpayers, some other time. And on the other hand, I would remind you, it is especially symbolic that in a few days we will celebrate the 15th birthday of the country of Slovenia. Let me add to this the judgment under which it reads again, on behalf of the people, the courts in Celje. There they excused the JLA officer, accused of assault on people, graves, intimidation, threat of weapons and so on with the following explanation, that JLA until October 1991, so until its withdrawal from Slovenia, I quote, "not Slovenia was an enemy army", so it attacked us, I don't know, the hunting union of Serbia, or God knows what, I don't know, but I have to say that this extraordinary achievement, the extraordinary contribution of the judiciary to Slovenian independence, would certainly deserve to have that judge given to some trial period. [[...]] In any event, I myself will be happy to vote in favour of this proposal, which has been tabled for a simple reason, as a serious warning to the judiciary, that no one can be untouchable if he does not do his work as he normally does in Europe, and if he does not do his work as commanded by the Slovenian Constitution and its laws. At that time, not only does the legislator have the right to intervene in the context of mutual control of the authorities, but it is my firm belief that he has the right and the duty to intervene and act as the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and the proposal for a decision to initiate a constitutional change procedure in this area in half an hour, so let us round up to 19:00. The vote shall begin at 7 p.m. Until then, have a nice evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u169	Members and Members, we are moving to a state-level vote on proposals for decisions, which requires some of the conditions met. One is to sit down, the other is to keep quiet, the third is to check the performance of the voting device, namely the orange light must be lit on the right hand side of the card. In accordance with Ambassador Majda Shirca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. This refers to the 1st item of the agenda - parliamentary questions, namely the proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Majda Širc's question on the reduction of RTV subscriptions. Mrs. Shirca, would you like to explain your voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I ask those present to support our position in order to discuss the Prime Minister's response to yesterday's meeting. Mr President, he was dealing with my point of view or with an attempt to prove how valuable something had been because it had not been encouraged. I'm not saying it was just the wrong, the wrong, the wrong, and the wrong answers. The fact that they were inaccurate also speaks of today's RTV Slovenia session, which, according to the U.S.A., says that the Director-General of RTV Slovenia Anton Guzej pointed out at today's programming session the financial part of the plan or the financial state of the public institution, as the contributions to RTV Slovenia fell below 70% of all revenue. And he also said that the contribution has not been consistent with inflation for two years, which is why the public agency has recorded $700 million in revenue. The President of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board was wrong yesterday, as was the Prime Minister. Three years since April 2004, there has been no alignment with inflation. In short, not only do I not know the Prime Minister, but I also want to hold a debate on his failures, and in this way we may be better able to explain the situation in RTV Slovenia and in the context of the promises made by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Of course, we will not support this proposal in the SDS Group. This is a content that the LDS could discuss on its own, as the interpretation offered yesterday on the issue of the Prime Minister is the interpretation of the two LDS Members, to which, of course, we gave all the media at the time of the referendum campaign. Indeed, they were spreading the untruths about the SDS press conference, where we have something real, we have talked about the real decline of the RTV contribution, we have informed in detail. Interestingly, however, even in the context of the answer or correction is now very current, no one has published this correction, although it was a direct charge, even though I claim that an insulting accusation was said to be a lie. And by the way, something similar happened yesterday. If this is really such a mathematical problem, and if the LDS Group does not have any more money for the education of Members, we might consider raising some funds in the National Assembly for one of these basic school courses based on mathematics, with an emphasis on the separation between real declines, that is, lowering values, then during nominal declines, that is to say, this is what was consistently offered from the LDS bench yesterday, and during a fictitious decline, because this concept was used yesterday, of course in the wrong way. I think it would be very helpful to avoid unnecessary discussions, to show a little more respect for each other, as well as not to let the National Assembly deal with something that two Members launch, then violate someone's right to remedy and then use it in a vehement manner for months and months to pour manure after that person and after the party that belongs to him. I must say that this is certainly not an honour for those who are doing so, but it is a witness to two things - the state of the media and the political culture of the largest opposition party. I certainly also express understanding for the way in which yesterday, particularly in that final part, was presented. Apparently, the trauma to the lost referendum, which all FDV experts have claimed to receive and that the law will be rejected, is very great. But as the winner of the referendum, I do not share this, but I certainly respect their mood and hope that they will overcome the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Please limit yourself to the explanation of the voice below and do not use this time for a controversy that is absolutely provoking the replicas. Mr Moge has the floor, I assume that on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. First, I would say that I would support this proposal. But if someone is already confusing math and trying to teach others mathematical lessons, then let me say that the lower one is not a concept of mathematics. In the first grade of high school, they learn that mathematics is much smaller. And the signs are like that - one is like that, and the other is exactly the other way. And of course this is by definition, I think it's not hard to understand: the natural number A is less than the natural number B exactly when there is such a natural number C that the number B is equal to A plus C. And also this relationship is of course just a relationship of partial order. And what you taught us not to know would recommend some math textbook to learn a little. The truth is, though, that anyone who knows mathematics a little may say that you have not fulfilled these promises, which you have written on many posters. And it would also be useful to support this proposal, which the colleague has submitted, in order to determine who knows mathematics and who does not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I guess you'll have to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u177	On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u178	No, no, on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u179	Please tell me immediately for the time measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u180	Yeah. Thank you very much again. Obviously, you will have to gather colleagues in the SDS Group for a course for all RTV contributors, not just for LDS Members, so that all other citizens will also be able to understand what you wanted in the campaign before the referendum with these promises to reduce the RTV contribution. This course will be quite expensive, as will soon be the more expensive RTV subscription, I am sure of that. Of course, I will vote in favour of the debate on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u182	Respected and esteemed! I will vote in favour of this proposal, not to clear up what is more and what is less. It was clear that the applicant had then promised a reduction and had not promised that inflation would reduce it. If, of course, the price stays the same, and then we say that inflation has reduced something, not that the price is lower, but that means, above all, that for the same money you get less, it is said that the value is lower. That's kind of how these things work. I am more interested in what is going on with Radiotelevision Slovenia, what is going on with all those promises, and I will therefore support the proposal of colleague Majda Shirca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. In your name, Mr Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u184	It's just that there's only one short basic math. During the period leading up to the entry into force of the new law, a few percent of the backlog, the actual backlog of the TV subscription or the inflation contribution were collected. The proposal for an increase was in the drawer, but they did not hope to send it forward because they were waiting for the outcome of the referendum. When the law was approved at the referendum, it is impossible to lift the subscription because it prohibits only the text of the law. And so, if you look at the time from the entry into force of the law to today, about 2% of the RTV contribution actually fell. But the sum total is already quite substantial, and I believe that someone is concerned that then the business will be affected in any way. However, I argue that it will not, because it will not be more transparent, with better organised and, above all, better managed operations of RTV Slovenia, very much money can be saved. Not only is it not possible to raise orders under the law, it is not possible to raise them even after the constitution itself, because this would have to change the law, but you have prevented those who requested a referendum, because as you know, after the letter of the Constitution and the law, it is not possible to intervene in the text of the law approved at the referendum within a year of its application. In fact, I firmly believe that this decision is politically binding on the people for much longer, at least until the end of the mandate. This is gonna be a real setback. It's gonna be big and sensitive.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will support this proposal for a decision because I think this is not just an opportunity to discuss the reduction of the RTV contribution, as you promised. You didn't promise to keep the RTV subscription, you promised it would go down. You didn't say that the RTV subscription would stand and that inflation would still work. You said she'd shrink. That's how I understand this math. But I think it would also be an opportunity to speak about other promises to have direct broadcasts on TV. Now we have them on some cable, and some working bodies that no one sees in a diary show what you want, because television is yours, so we can talk about quality. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u187	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u188	Because all of these were your promises to be more quality. [[...]] All I'm saying is, if I say roughly that the representatives of this RTV house have already joined Eurosong, they're already in the pre-commencement. That's a change.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that 76 Members and Members were present for 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] This means that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the Saš Pečet's question on government measures to preserve the value of the national currency and thus to the price of goods and services in connection with the supervision of the stability of the convergence criteria. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] This means that the decision is not adopted. We're moving on. Pursuant to the proposal of Ambassador Cvete Zalokar Orazem, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Transport Janez Bozič to the question of the question of Mr. Cvete Zalokar Orzam on the rehabilitation of unprotected railway crossings. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In line with the proposal by Majda Potat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, to the question of the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs concerning the implementation of Article 10 of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on legal issues. Master's degree in Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I proposed a debate because Minister Beast did not explain what changes he was planning in the relationship between public and private schools. If the situation of private schools is regulated by concession, which means the initiative of the State and the private initiative allows only indirectly, the programme is, as a rule, a sufficiently precise doubling of the public school programme. Part of the reasons for the establishment of private schools is the offer of different programmes. In our school system he introduces a different pedagogical philosophy between schools with a concession only Waldorf primary school. The international acts of Slovenia are directly or indirectly committed to the regulation of private education. However, they do not commit to funding from the budget by judging by the decisions of international courts. The organisation and funding are now governed by the law in force. The general public is not in favour of the establishment of private primary schools. It gives priority to a high-quality public school which, to the maximum extent possible, provides equal educational opportunities for all, regardless of their social situation, and therefore the announced changes need to be carefully prepared and considered in the public debate of the interested and professional public. The objective must be a legal situation in which the conditions for the establishment of a private school and the principles under which the school operates will be fully clear. At a time when the demographic picture does not predict a rapid increase in generations, when the government is constantly stressing savings and efficiency, the budgetary financing of new substitute schools in environments where school closure is forecast is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Let me remind you again here, and please, when you apply for an explanation to say whether on behalf of the Group of Members or on our behalf, that we will make it easier to measure time. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. And the last proposal in item 1 of the agenda. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Andre Bručan, Minister of Health, to Mr Friend's question on improving the health situation. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law, and this is the amendment of the 121st, 140th and 143rd Articles of the Constitution of EPA 809-IV. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Group of Members, of 31 March 2006, with the first-signed France Tsukjati to initiate the procedure for the amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. Before voting, I wish to inform you that a decision will be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There were 77 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 5. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the assembly adopted the proposal for a decision. Since the National Assembly has adopted a decision to initiate a procedure to amend those articles of the Constitution, we are moving to a debate on the draft constitutional law and on the position of the Constitutional Commission towards that draft law. Perhaps the representative of the candidates would like to say something to further explain the draft constitutional law? [[No, no, ……]] As we know, the draft also treated the Constitutional Commissions as a parent working body and prepared a position for admission to the National Assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word, given the time remaining? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a possible debate between Members and Members. She's not either. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed position of the Constitutional Commission, which reads: "The proposed word of amendments 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution should be adopted in the proposed text." This time, I remind you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 178 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, if a majority of all Members vote for them, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 6. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against six.]] It means that we have adopted the proposed position. We've ended our decision on this point. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 179 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the position adopted, the Constitutional Commission shall draw up a proposal for a constitutional law. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - to consider the proposal to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. Again, it concerns paragraphs 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution on regionalisation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a proposal from the Group of Members, signed first by Dara Lavtijar Bebler of 20 June 2005 EPA 317/IV, for the initiation of a procedure to amend the articles of the Constitution just mentioned. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the assembly not to adopt this decision." Before voting, I would like to inform you again that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution, a decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 61. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 61.]] It means that the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. I note that the assembly of the proposed decision to initiate the procedure for amending those articles has not been adopted. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the procedure for this proposal shall be terminated. The content of the same proposal cannot be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the State Assembly in this mandate, nor can it be dealt with by the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law with regard to Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution relating to immunity. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Group of Members of 11 January 2006 with the first-signed France Tsukjati to initiate a procedure to amend those articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. I reiterate that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Slovenian Constitution, a decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Mrs. Lavtizar Bebler, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the LDS Group, I assure you that we support this compromise proposal on immunity, and we hope that the position will also be adopted to continue or further examine the usefulness or justification of our proposal in order to exclude regrets, slander and false accusations from the protection of parliamentary responsibility. In doing so, we are also committed to further examining the relationship between Articles 63 and 83 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The proposed decision is adopted. Since the National Assembly, as before, has adopted a decision to initiate a procedure to amend Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution, we are moving to a debate on the draft constitutional law, on the position of the Constitutional Commission on that draft law and on the two amendments to the position. The drafter of the first amendment is the LDS Group of Members, the second amendment's proposers are coalition MPs. Does the representative of the proposers want further explanations regarding the draft? [[No, no, ……]] The draft constitutional law was also addressed by the Constitutional Commission. Does the rapporteur of the commission want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative want a word or do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[Not at all.]] We are moving on to a possible debate between Members and Members. Obviously no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. As it is said, two amendments have been tabled to the Constitutional Commission's position, namely the LDS Club of Parliament and the amendment of the coalition groups of Members. If both amendments are adopted, the text of the position on the draft constitutional law will be as follows: "The Constitutional Commission, when drafting a proposal for a constitutional law on the basis of the text submitted by the draft constitutional law amending Article 83, Article 100 and Article 167 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, should examine whether the drafting of the text of Article 83 of the proposal would require a restriction and how the scope of the immunity for violations of the prohibition provided for in Article 63 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and for the enforcement of international treaties with which the Republic of Slovenia has transferred the work of the sovereign rights of the repressive authority and jurisdiction to international organisations. End of quote. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to the position. Before voting, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 178 of the Rules of Procedure, the amendment will be adopted if a majority of all Members vote in favour of the proposal, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the position. Again, the amendment will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the proposed position of the Constitutional Commission as a whole. There is a need for a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. If I'm not mistaken, Dr. Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u194	Mr Vice-President, I would like a 15-minute recess before a decision on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who might want to explain their voice before the interruption? [[Nobody.]] I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 7:50 p.m., so ten minutes to eight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u196	We continue with the adjourned session. Please sit comfortably in your seats. I invite Dr. Gabra to explain the suspension of the session. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we tried to explain why it was necessary to change the position adopted by the Constitutional Commission with a two-thirds majority in this way by the ruling coalition recently. We believe that it is more than obvious that some fear the fact that they will not enforce, but even consider whether it would suggest limiting the right of Members and Members that people who are not in the National Assembly, who are citizens and citizens, cannot be slandered and maligned. It is obvious that even consideration of this limitation would result in a very serious thing, a very serious obligation for some who have voted here today to remove even the possible liability for such work. We are, truly, disappointed at this kind of work. We understand that the Constitutional Commission has decided by a two-thirds majority and seriously on this issue. We have understood the desire of coalition parties to include the question of the relationship between paragraphs 63 and 83. So, once again, I would like to say whether it is necessary to exclude from immunity the situations in which a Member would call for violence in that country or not to include it in that consideration. We have now witnessed a manoeuvre which is intended to have one purpose: to play the possibility of further discussion on this and also to play the possibility for Members and Members of Parliament to be self-limited through the discussion that we would have carried out further until the adoption of the Constitution. Of course, the Group of Members will not agree to this game, at least not in such a way as to support the views that will now be adopted. This seems to be beneath every other acceptable level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. We're done with the decision. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the position adopted, the Constitutional Commission shall draw up a proposal for a constitutional law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I note that the proposed decision to initiate the procedure for amending Article 83 of the Constitution has been adopted by the assembly. Since the Constitutional Commission has not yet drawn up its views on this amendment, I ask the Constitutional Commission to do so. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 6th item of the agenda. I'm sorry, but the professional services didn't properly prepare the script for me. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law, and this is an amendment to Article 83. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of a group of Members with the first signed Mirano Potrče of 7 December 2004 for the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly not to adopt this Decision. Before voting, I wish to inform you that a decision will be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 55. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 55.]] This means that the decision is not adopted. I note that the assembly of the proposed decision to initiate the procedure for amending Article 83 of the Constitution has not been adopted. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the procedure for this proposal shall be terminated. The content of the same proposal cannot be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the State Assembly in this mandate, nor can it be dealt with by the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And now we are really going to continue with the 6th item of the agenda - this is by considering the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. It is once again an amendment to Article 83. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of a group of Members, with the first-signed mag. Branko Grims, of 26 January 2005 EPA 101-IV, for the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly not to adopt this Decision. Again, before the vote, I inform you that a decision will be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. The word has magic. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. We've seen a debate before, which I personally have to admit, I find it difficult to understand. All the content of the amendment voted on in that compromise proposal, which has now been adopted, which has therefore already opened this article of the Constitution, was to learn what is left some dilemmas among constitutional experts. I have already talked about this before, and should therefore not deal with things that have already been studied several times and have been found to be either not effective or when it comes to international treaties, that, in essence, the text of the Slovenian Constitution is not necessary in the light of the very clear and decided text, and that therefore the only content that is actually the subject of the various assessments is also open among constitutional experts. This is an exception to Article 63. It is somewhat unusual that those who proposed this then voted against it. But they voted on the grounds that they wanted further exacerbation, that they wanted to prevent someone who was unpunished or a member of another Member or someone who was not here from profaning him, as they said, from speaking ill of him as a subject of persecution, including civil lawsuits. Okay. Then, fellows, it's an opportunity now. You all have the opportunity to vote to completely erase immunity from the Constitution. Then it'll be clear who has a fig in his pocket and who doesn't when it comes to sharpening. I'll vote for that. That's what I'm saying right now. However, if this is not accepted, then I propose that we focus on the text, which has already been opened, which is already under further consideration, to complete and align as much as possible with the opinions of the various experts, in order to be the best and for the common benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u200	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 62. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 62.]] This means that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the procedure for this proposal shall be terminated. The content of the same proposal cannot be placed on the agenda of the meeting of the State Assembly in this mandate, nor can it be dealt with by the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda and also the last item of today's session by considering the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law with regard to Article 129. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of a group of Members, with the first signed by Saš Pečet, of 2 December 2005 [[EPA 588-IV]] , to initiate a procedure to amend Article 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly not to adopt this Decision. Before voting, I would like to inform you again that the decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 34. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 34.]] This means that the assembly of the proposed decision to initiate the procedure for amending Article 129 of the Constitution has not been adopted. Once again, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the procedure for this proposal shall be terminated. The content of the same proposal can no longer be tabled in this mandate, nor can it be dealt with by the Constitutional Commission. I'm closing this agenda item. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. It's a nice and pleasant evening for all of us. Thank you.
