ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We continue with the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please take your seats. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Feri Horvat, Sašo Pece, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Boštjan Zagorac, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Breda Pecan. We're moving to 3. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION OF THE WINE LAW. At its 11th extraordinary meeting on 23 December 2005, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge the wine law before declaring the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request. Here you go, Mr. Mauchec. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Allow me to introduce you to the position of the State Council, which, at its 11th extraordinary session on 23 December, decided on the wine law and adopted the veto. Why do you know? Veto was adopted because our commission in the state council was considering the first amendment to the wine law, where it was defined that two wine-growing countries were a foundation, but that then three wine-growing countries were proposed in the draft law. Finally, in the National Assembly of the Agriculture Commission, you reformulated this proposal because two wine-growing countries were adopted in the Journal and then in the National Assembly, as one of the key issues. And we also had comments on purely professional matters below. Why two, why three wine-growing countries? It is likely that all those who have somehow advocated that one wine-growing land may be known that this is impossible but cannot be, because of the zone of two who are divided in the country, and from a professional point of view, it is necessary to keep on looking. There had to be changes to the names, because Posavije and Podravje, of course, we can take the lease to Primorska as Primorje, Primorska stays, but from the point of view of development and looking forward, when Croatia will also be in the EU, of course we can no longer have Posavje as such, because then, of course, Posavje can, you know, go to Belgrade. And then, of course, it doesn't matter, because there's no line. Our proposal is to define Primorska as such and as a South-East and North-East country in the law. We therefore ask Members to try in a second thought, as is possible in the Rules of Procedure and in the functioning of Parliament, to define yourself until these amendments. Of course, from an expert medical point of view, you also received an explanation that there should be no adjuvant wine. Although it is possible to adjust the must when it is estimated that the crop is poor, and this is allowed in the course of wine training, and by no means at the end of the product, it is said that wine. This is very important from a health point of view due to glucose and fructose, because not only do we have 100,000 registered diabetes patients in Slovenia, you will probably all admit that you had experience alone or with friends, you know that diabetes patients become when you get to a doctor, and most of us probably don't even know it. So I would ask you to take this as a very serious problem and try to accept it as such. It is also not defined below, as it should be, on the basis of the expert’s explanations, in Article 2, where wines, straws and those that mature in one way or another, but do not ripen on the vine, is said to be subject to weather effects in one or another form, so that you can get to a particular type of wine, it is said, until late harvesting, dry selection and ice wine. We further note that Article 21 is poorly defined, because technological maturity and vitreousness are sometimes not acceptable to vineyards and it is permissible for some part to be sweetened, must, not wine at all, in no case. Here we propose that, as a ceiling of 2.5 degrees, alcohol may be sweetened, but at the point of must, not anymore. If the harvest were worse, then the wine should go one quality class lower [[End warning sign]] otherwise we do not provide traceability for consumers. There's still a few things ahead, but it doesn't matter that much anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u3	Mr. Mauchec, if you can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u4	I'm asking you to just read it and decide what's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponent to explain the government's opinion. Mrs Maria Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome! We have before us a re-decision on the wine law, which mainly represents compliance with the European acquis. In its proposal to the national assembly, the government proposed three wine-growing countries. With amendments to the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly, they were established in two wine-growing countries. The Ministry conducts a survey by asking wine growers in Posavje area whether they want two or three wine-growing countries. The fact is that the partial results of the survey show the benefit of the three wine-growing countries. I leave the decision to confirm the law or to confirm the veto which has been postponed to you, Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Members and Members of the Council of State, Madam Minister. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will not support the proposal for a wine law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been vetoed by the Council of State. We expect that in the shortest possible time, further research will be undertaken on open issues related to the number of wine-growing countries. As we know, the proposal of this law, which included three wine-growing countries, Primorsko, Podravje and Posavje, was forwarded to the National Assembly. It was last-minutely amended and quickly confirmed as law with only two wine-growing countries, Primorska and Eastern Slovenia. Members of the DeSUS Group responded immediately to this amendment and drew attention to several open questions. Regardless of our smallness in Slovenia, we do not think that the division of the Republic of Slovenia into two wine-growing countries is well thought out. In our view, it would be right to take into account, for example, the Dolenj wine-growing country, which would include the White Land and the like. We note that the proposed solution, which reduces the number of wine-growing countries, must not be taken into account by the established wine-growing countries known within our national space, even at the expense of the cultural heritage which we believe must be respected. The identification of only two wine-growing countries in our view poses a great risk of re-evaluation of the newly protected wines of Cvička. Members of the DeSUS Group estimate that only by means of specificity can Slovenian wines prosper both at home and abroad and should therefore promote diversity in Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we have specifically warned that it is not good and it is not right that the law was drawn up without sufficient cooperation with the winegrowers and winemakers, especially from the area of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, and that such cooperation was insufficient at the last stage. We are convinced that such conduct is not good and that, in a different way from the government to the vineyards, the law would be even better, and thus would not be in a situation where we have to make another decision about the law imposed by the veto. In this regard, the government has already indicated or promised that, because of the diverse views and interests of the winegrowers and winegrowers on the basis of surveys among all the inhabitants of Posavje, it will determine their interests. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ensured that it will take into account the majority opinion even if only for the benefit of the three wine-growing countries and thus propose amendments to the law in accordance with the urgency procedure. As we know, the Ministry of Agriculture has already sent questionnaire 198 to larger vineyards producing more than 5,000 litres of wine annually. With regard to the said Members of the DeSUS Group, it is recalled that a survey needs to be sent to all winegrowers, not only to market-relevant but also to smaller producers, about 15 000 of them, because only on the basis of such a survey, the Ministry could collect real data and thus analyse and take into account the will of all the affected. We estimate that the government has taken into account all international standards and obligations in this area when preparing the proposal for a wine law, but it would be right to listen more to the feelings of wine growers in the wine-growing countries so far understood. Members of the DeSUS Group will not support the bill because of all these concerns. We hope that the government will fulfil its promises and commitments and, on the basis of the situation found, also take appropriate action with any subsequent change to three wine-growing countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Yelena. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister with co-workers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. There have been many debates about the law, one of which has also been in the State Council, where the procrastination veto on the law has been passed. The explanation states that the State Council supports three wine-growing countries, so that from the eastern wine-growing land the environment of Dolenjska and the surroundings of Bela krajina are excluded and form a third wine-growing land. It's the main stumbling block. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have supported the wine law so far because it is technically good and is needed to harmonise legislation with the European Union. Desires for three wine-growing countries were shown during the stages of the adoption of the law. Although the law was brought to a third reading and confirmed. At the same time, we promised those interested that the law we had adopted would be amended to the extent desired by the farmers of Dolenjska and the White Land by means of a new law. We're on the verge of being ambushed by a suspension veto of the state council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have listened to vineyards from Dolenjska and Bela Krajina and the Union of Dolenjska Vineyard Associations, who want to have their wine-growing land and thereby to further protect the pride of the lower wines of Cviček. That's why we won't support the wine law. However, we must say that it will immediately join the process of adopting a new wine law, which will include three countries if the survey so shows, which I have no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr Geza Juban will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! When the wine law came into existence, we supported this law in the House of Liberal Democracy and agreed with its content. The territorial division in the Republic of Slovenia regarding wine-growing countries also seemed acceptable to us. However, the strange things that have happened yesterday, today and recently in this house and in this country, have also brought about the change of the wine law on the Agriculture Committee. We are on the side of the parliamentary club, or if you want those who know the agricultural field a little bit more, we have warned that this should not happen, but the way of voting, as has been the case lately, has been such that the law in this part has been amended, which we reiterate is that this solution is not good. It is probably nothing new if I say that we support the government's proposal, which has already concluded that the solution is not good and that what we have heard from the Minister today is that the government has submitted a law with a solution, mainly with regard to territorial division to the countries, that the government then proposed and also agrees with the remarks made by the winegrowers, in particular the southern part of Slovenia, that we have again three wine-growing countries. None of you have mentioned whether he has registered that we already have a new law in the procedure, which was tabled by the Slovenian National Party with the first-signed Happy Friend, proposing a re-introduction of a solution that was in the government's proposal. On the Committee on Agriculture or on the Labour Body to which the law will be granted, it is possible to correct the name of these countries, where there may be a discussion solution proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian National Party to get the law as it is appropriate. Of course, this is why we will not support this law. I find in my feelings that the law will not be supported and I suggest that we then go to a new law or change the law as necessary and get three wine-growing countries back. At the same time, I'd like to say something else. With no choice of law not with a, not with b, not with SNS, the drill will not be affected. The indications are incorrect. The trickle has its own law, its own rules governing the production, manufacture and sale, and this law is without prejudice to the drill, and the fears that some are selling under this law are not justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Juban. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Also on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group in our Group, we believe that the request of the Council of State for re-decision on the wine law is justified. We note that the proposaler's irresponsible approach is to record in the law submitted to Parliament that Slovenia has three wine-growing countries and then to the Committee two wine-growing countries. Of course, it is a very important substantive change in the law, which completely changes the relationship between wine growers and winemakers. Such an attitude is inappropriate, both for wine growers and for winemakers, not least for the State Council and also for the National Assembly. We are particularly surprised that the government will identify two or three wine-growing countries on the basis of a name survey in Posav, among those who reported 5,000 or more litres of wine last year. The question is, of course, why is the limit of 5,000 litres or more, since it is a fact that the valley hills are known for their many walls and broken vineyards. So the survey is also trying to show some imaginary situation in Dolenjska, which is clearly only imagined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The decision for two wine-growing countries also has a decisive impact on the visibility of Dolenjska and Exercise. We are getting the impression that it would be necessary to choke on the market with the purchase of grapes in the area envisaged for the production of exercise, thus limiting it on the market with smaller quantities and thus, of course, also trying to cause a gradual loss of the market. At the same time, we believe that the survey carried out by the Ministry is an untrustworthy agricultural forestry chamber representing the interests of the members. The Agricultural Chamber of Commerce supports three wine-growing countries, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food wants to keep the members up to date, and if anyone has to carry out a survey, this is, in our opinion, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and not the Minister or Ministers of the Ministry. Moreover, it seems unfair for us to change the law if the survey shows interest in Posavje for its country. It would be correct to have the results of the survey presented today, and not to manipulate the National Assembly, to avoid manipulating 4 thousand 700 Dolenjska vineyards, 1,000 Belokran winegrowers, or 15 thousand vineyard growers who have vineyards in the area. Adopting a law to change it tomorrow is certainly an unacceptable decision and causes much ill will, ambiguity and ignorance especially in wine growers and winemakers. We therefore propose that the law be rejected and that we do not support the re-decision in the House of Social Democrats and that the Government immediately submit a new law with three wine-growing countries to meet the expectations of most wine-growers and wine-growers in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! The debate on the exercise in this National Assembly is not the first, probably not the last. I see it as a good free exercise commercial myself. You must understand that the Styrians also give something to their wines. As far as the Council of State is concerned, I have read this explanation very carefully. In his argument or opinion, the Council of State stated that the arguments were valid for both two and three wine-growing countries. Today, we have heard here, from the representative of the State Council, that it would be best if we had only one country in Slovenia and that would be really the best solution. But it cannot be implemented because in the negotiations with the European Union it was stipulated that Slovenia was divided into two zones: Primorska, which belongs to zone C and the rest of Slovenia, which belongs to zone B. And it was also encouraging that some of us have listened primarily to those who today on the Slovenian wine market mean something and have more wine and also understand that Slovenia is exposed to a global European and not only European Europe after joining the European Union, we can say peacefully that the world market. And because they are thinking ahead, their arguments are valid and in these debates they have advocated that what we can do in Slovenia should be done, reducing the number of wine-growing countries and wine-growing environments. The department also listened to this. It is true, however, that the Ministry has proposed a law with three countries, and that it is on the basis of such arguments that we have also amended it with an amendment. This must be clearly acknowledged here and said. All the discussions on this subject have already been discussed on behalf of LDS colleague Juban said that the two wine-growing countries are threatening the flower, are irrelevant, are purely misleading and I would say, in fact, the argument of all those who do not understand that it is now time for Slovenia to adapt to some new conditions. And this is actually a constant problem in the food processing industry in Slovenia. At the very least, I will say that Slovenian dairy, if any, will fail because they do not unite because today it is necessary to unite in these conditions. Those who do not follow this and do not understand it are condemned to be small and to be captivated by the developed. This is also the case in the Member States of the European Union. What I am pleased to say is that, in fact, the current ruling coalition and the government are willing to listen to some other proposals, which we were not accustomed to in the previous term. I don't know if there's ever been a veto - because there weren't a lot of them, but some of them - the state council has succeeded, I just don't remember it. I must say, this time the situation is different. It has been said several times that if the commitment of the Dolenjians to having their wine-growing land is such that they want Slovenia to be so small that nothing changes from this point of view if we have two or three wine-growing countries, and then this wine-growing country should also have it. The Ministry and we, too, are prepared to amend the law so that the three countries will then be divided and that Slovenia will remain divided as it has been divided so far by a slightly different designation, with everyone agreeing that the words Posavje and Podravje in the law will change. Other articles and other reasons why the Council of State voted veto will not be touched because they are less important. I just want to mention one thing. The State Council has also attacked the decision that wine can be bottled outside the wine-growing environment. In this regard, I would like to say that there is a decision by the European Court of Justice that has ruled on it, and this cannot then be the matter of our verdict in the National Assembly or the ruling of the Council of State, but this judgment must be respected and incorporated into the new law as such. On other matters, however, as I say, I would not like to discuss. Let me finish. The Committee on Agriculture, on the basis of the Government's opinion, did not adopt the procrastination veto of the Council of State, but reaffirmed the law. This will be the case for the majority of Members of the New Slovenia and we will confirm the law because we think that the solutions in this law are good. Of course, the decision is left to individual Members that, in view of the circumstances they come from and where they have also been elected to make a decision after, I will use the word that some say here repeatedly when you say that you will vote according to your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Much effort has been put into amending the wine law, both by the proponents and here in the national assembly. And I think that the changes that are required in this law, particularly those that touch on the issues of harmonisation of legislation with the EU, are necessary and it is right that we have adopted them. We have also decided that we will no longer have three wine-growing countries, but we will have only two. This decision came mainly in the area of Dolenjska and White Krajina into disapproval. Our fellow Members also drew attention to this in the very process of enacting the law. In our parliamentary group, we have examined these comments and we have also decided unanimously to support the veto, saying we will not support the law. We do not want any human beings in this wineland of Posavia to be particularly affected in this emotional aspect so that they do not have their own land. We will support the veto and expect the proposer, from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, to come as soon as possible with a new law that will be amended in this part and then we will unanimously support this law. Nevertheless, colleagues and colleagues, whether we will have one, two or three wine-growing countries in Slovenia, we will be able to drink good Slovenian wines and good Slovenian Cviček, good Dolenjski Cviček in the time of Slovenia and, of course, to the health of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr Kramberger. Mr Srečko Friend will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear colleagues! Dear Minister! On 20 December, what happened was what was happening and it would be right if we did not move around and actually say how this situation came about. The government proposal contained exactly what we are today defending almost all, i.e. three wine-growing areas. In fact, the government coalition has made an amendment to the existing law, which the government has proposed so that there will be no mistake. In Slovenia we have not only Cvička, we have 48 wine varieties in Slovenia and we are the only country likely to sing wine in its anthem. It's a shame we're being so casual about this problem. Even the winemakers themselves from Dolenjska, in fact the President of the consortium of tricks Janez Zivič wrote that it doesn't really matter how many wine-growing areas we have. Of course, it is important, in the world you drink wine with a feeling, you create wine cards that register wine-growing areas, and in fact wine is the ambassador of the country who bears the name of good people and beautiful places. The poll is another nonsense that, in our opinion, is completely out of our control and will cost something again. Asking someone if he wants to have a bigger piece of bread, of course, that everyone will agree to it, because we know what happened to Squeak in the past. Cviček was completely demolished, wine or grapes imported from Serbia and actually Cviček could be made by anyone, it was a price brand for table white wine. Today, when it is enforced, when it has its price, we want to degrade it in this way. Last but not least, since the Minister is here, I'd like to take this opportunity. Dear Minister, the agricultural activity in the European Community is the most affected and I would also appeal to all Members to make efforts in this context to obtain more European funds, although it is commendable to the government for this year, it is indeed a huge amount of resources that have been earned, but it is important to encourage what is, in fact, good and agricultural matters, certainly under a good deal of wine, wine that is of quality. My colleagues who spoke before me would like to draw attention to something else. On December 21st, we immediately tabled our proposal for a law that corrects this mistake and if there is any honesty, then we will agree to reject this government proposal, which the government itself has changed into what we have today on the table and you will support our proposal, which is already in the procedure, so we do not have to wait for a new law, but the law has already been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Friend. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Honourable Minister and everyone else is here in the Chamber. Today we are discussing again the wine law at the request of the state council. Among other things, the state world is evident by the wine must law, and I wonder why Slovenian vineyards would be restricted if other wine growers in the European Union were allowed to do so? How can we provide our vineyards with a level playing field if we restrict them? Let's also say bottled wine outside wine-growing countries following the European Union Directive. And straw wine, I don't know how much of this straw wine is in Slovenia to be worth going down into this dilemma. It's something special, and nothing terrible can happen to me if we throw it into a marriage, it doesn't belong in the same basket, like grapes that mature under the snow, under the ice, or anything like that. Whoever interferes with this kind of wine certainly knows what it means to each other. Otherwise, it is with wine - producing lands in this law. The profession recommended two. Two of them were married from an economic point of view. There's a grape market spreading. But the lowland and white vineyards resisted this. On Friday, five thousand vine growers from the Dolenjska Vineyard Association sent a request for three wine-growing countries. White landscape or Goričko, Dolenjska or Styria. They find it difficult to explain or believe that they are equal in terms of climate conditions, pedological conditions, resilient choices, and above all the traditions of wine-growing throughout Eastern Slovenia. Among the 15,000 wine producers there are less than 200 wine growers or wine growers who produce more than 5,000 litres of wine. But practically every farm, every city in Dolenjska, has its own vineyard. Graduation has this long tradition and it means a lot to them. They've done something out of Cwiczko that you won't blame me, Styrians can't make your own wine. They don't land on country wines, spilling grapes from two countries to three countries, and so on. That's why they insist on their land. They are confident that their situation in a single country will deteriorate. The consultation also agreed with wine cellars, larger producers, at least that's what I was told. I don't see any obstacle to insisting on two countries either. We write the law, because of the vineyards, it is intended for them, it will bind them, and it is right to comply with them in their requirements of three wine-growing countries. I did not change my mind about two or three countries because of today’s beekeeping of journalist Del in the news. Two countries were, as I have said, a proposal from the profession, as well as some economists, mainly from an economic point of view. At both meetings of the Committee of the Mother Labour Body, I also highlighted the requirements of the Downland winegrowers and also decided to vote. At the meetings, the minister also said that there was no reason for the vineyards of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina to insist on not writing into the law of three countries. And today I say this publicly, I will not vote in favour of a law containing two countries today. I therefore support three countries and will vote in favour of veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Thank you. The word, given that Mr Preseknik and Kristian have changed, has the word Mr Kristian Janc. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, a representative of the Council of State and a colleague and a colleague! I am very pleased to note that after December 16th, when we discussed this wine law in the National Assembly, some of us were then slightly different from today, but we saw that we had made a certain mistake, a mistake. That is why today we have found it necessary to listen to the voice of the winegrowers of Dolenjska, White landscape and Posavje, which I think is extremely positive. That is why the National Assembly, after all, has also found that there are no special reasons why we should not have three wine-growing countries. This also seems to me like a good journey for all wine growers from Dolenjska, White landscapes and Posavje, who are very well organized into a number of societies, which are over 5,000 just Posavska and Dolenjska, as well as the Belarusian ones, and this is not a small number. This together is certainly 15,000 people working in the field of wine-growing, which regulates these vineyards, which decorate the Posavska, Lower and Belokranj landscape and have a special place in this Slovenian space. I am convinced that the new wine law, which we are likely to adopt in the future, is urgently needed. It doesn't say anywhere, one, two or three regions, I think it's a simple decision for us. And that decision, as I know, is going in the right direction. The ministry has also clearly seen its mistake - a mistake that the government has not made since the government has adopted three regions, but on the way from the government through the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture to the National Assembly there has been a number of obvious developments, one way or another. And there came an amendment with two countries, but which has experienced great opposition, with a debate that has so far been in the National Assembly making it clear that this story does not go through, that this law falls and prepares a new one that will contain three countries. I am sure that this is good for the winegrowers, but not only for the Posavska, Lower and Belokranj, but for all Slovenian winegrowers. It has also contributed a lot to this, because it is not acceptable for us to change some concepts that have been good so far, which even Europe does not require of us. Therefore, we do not see any reason to create any health among the vine growers who are in this room and will be. There's been a lot of talk about the drill today. Thank God, this exercise has its place, thanks to the previous government, the previous Parliament, some Members who have advocated that it has its place and its place and that the story of the exercise is good and successful today. And I want him to be as successful for as long as he is today. This may not suit anyone in Slovenia, but these are the facts. Although some people say a little bit in jest that it's something special. And it's really special. This is a special type of wine, which, thank God, in Slovenia is well marketed, well sold, and I hope it will be as soon as possible beyond Slovenian borders. I welcome the discussions that I am hearing today from the groups and Members of Parliament, and all that this is going in the right direction, so that we will finally get three countries and thus take into account the will of the winegrowers who are working in this area and who are very successful in doing so. However, I would like the Ministry to try to better coordinate with all the actors of the story in the future, especially with the winegrowers, because wine is intended for everyone. And it would have been good if, before this story was adopted by the government of three countries, there had not been any change in these countries or in the strategy of this law, and today it would not have been in the national world, nor in the national assembly. This may be some mistake that can happen, of course, but it is still remediable. That's why I believe we're going to fix it today. I am pleased, once again, that the debate that I myself had among the first received a positive sign today and that, as is clear now, the three countries will remain, including the beetroot and all the vine growers who, through the organisation of the many societies 26 have also turned to the government, to the Prime Minister himself, to the others, to the parliamentary groups and have also received this story. Thank you, on behalf of all the vineyards of Dolenjska, White landscape and Posavje, thank you on behalf of the cricket and I call on health with exercise!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We have dealt with wine law through several stages in the past year and there has been a situation such as this. Two possible solutions have already been announced on the last Committee on Agriculture, whether we accept, confirm the veto of the Council of State and continue the procedure. The main topic has always been the number of wine-growing countries in all these discussions. More than once, it has proved very difficult to reconcile interests. The interests of some very successful market performance are certainly that it would be under one person to be one wine-growing country, but the specifics of the production method, etc., speak in favour of three wine-growing countries. This will probably also be demonstrated by research surveys carried out by the Ministry and, therefore, I tend to support the veto or to successfully conclude the law so that most producers will be satisfied or able to successfully market Slovenian wine varieties, so that farmers will be satisfied and that the large stocks of wine that appear will find their buyer. That's why, as I said, I'm going to back this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor because you have exchanged with Mr Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, good day to you! In the Slovenian National Party, we have already warned in the adoption of the law that we agree with the adoption of the wine law if three wine-growing countries remain. Since our proposal was not taken into account at the time, the Slovenian National Party, as you know, has tabled a new proposal for a law and we absolutely insist on three wine-growing countries, which means that we support in parallel the veto given by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a matter of fact that wine is one of the products in the country of Slovenia, which is also a country of the European Union, which is certainly at the level of the best European wines, but this recognition will have to come to Slovenian wine within a certain period, including with the support of domestic legislation. Domestic legislation is, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, obliged to take into account three different, excellent and quality wine-growing areas, which we refer to as wine-growing countries. That is why I myself and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party will be vetoed, of course with the wishes and expectation that our new proposal will be put in place as soon as possible, and that it will then be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out once again that all those who speak of the introduction of two wine-growing countries being affected by so many and so many smaller vine growers, I do not know whether you are deceiving yourself, whether you really believe it or not. I am deeply convinced that we are looking at trends in the EU Member States in order to actually get smaller vineyards with this, because it would be easier to enter the market. But as has already been said, if some emotions have prevailed over economic reasons, then this must also be respected. I'll say it again. Tweezer has nothing to do with it. I'd like to ask you not to do that again. It is not because it is legally protected, both within Slovenia and within the EU, and cannot be produced by Styria. Let's not bluff in this direction anymore, please. This law was passed in the National Assembly and is valid and has not been amended by anyone. There's only one way to put the trickle at risk. If consumers don't spend it anymore, just through it. I would certainly like to say again that some are probably more, others are less aware that romantic times in the field of winemaking are over. There were times when all the wine was sold easily. Today you have wine cellars, where large stocks of wine accumulate, with which Slovenia does not really know how to enter the European market with it. These quantities are higher from year to year. It will also be necessary to take a proper approach in this direction so that this global challenge ahead of us can be overcome together. Such locking into a small thing will certainly not bring us anything on this road. But I am also glad that everything that anyone has said is written down. Those who today claim that this matter needs to be handled differently may quickly come up with completely different ideas when, of course, they feel what it means on their skin. There's something else I'd really like to say. It is not true that vine growers did not participate in the formation of this law. It just doesn't hold. They cooperated, but they're separated. They have different opinions and different views on how to solve this problem. Some take sides, I will say it as it is, some advocate that things be arranged in such a way that there will be as few bureaucratic obstacles as possible, that trade will be eased and some advocate a different approach. If most of those who want to remain in Slovenia are three countries, it is said, as was the case in 1948, I do not know what was so important in 1948 that we have to maintain the same situation today. If most of them are on it, we will listen to them in New Slovenia, as we have predicted and as has been said on the basis of the survey, and we will not persist in our original decision and we will change our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with co-worker! I support the law submitted by the Government to the procedure, and I also understand all the arguments by which the Committee has changed these wine-growing countries and, as a result, in the parliamentary procedure itself in the adoption of the law, including the intervention of vineyards from this relatively large area, we have not been able to change anything. And then, of course, the December decision was necessary, I don't know which day in December, but only two choices were possible. So either the law as such has been passed or the law has already been rejected and asked to propose to the Ministry or the government that it come with the amended law. We have already, of course, pointed out that the reactions around this are serious and, of course, I personally do not know all these professional reasons for and against, so that I can respond specifically and then make up my mind. However, we took seriously the mass warnings of the winegrowers, and at the end of the agri-land chamber, that the law that we adopted in December needed to be amended in this part. Perhaps not so much in the part about sugar, there is also a professional explanation that there are no problems there, but I suggest that the ministry also examine it on professional grounds. And that's why I'm going to support this veto or vote against the law. I also think that the survey currently being carried out by the Ministry is unnecessary and I do not know if it will produce satisfactory results, I think it would be better to do some survey for another matter. And I suggest that the Ministry does not wait for the results of this survey, but to immediately prepare a new, amended law in this part, comes by law through the government into the National Assembly, because I believe that, of course, the remaining provisions that are necessary in this law are necessary and should therefore be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u33	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also support the veto of the state council. Despite the fact that the State Council is essentially a blind bowel of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, it is one of the many rare things that it has done correctly and where it knows what it is and has vetoed. Probably after the whispers of some clever people, and I think it is necessary to arrange this Slovenia in such a way that we have three wine-growing regions. The fact that it was all together and "spaved" in only two wine-growing regions, I think it was due to the wishes of the Slovenian People's Party or at least some in the Slovenian People's Party, which in this case jumped into the back of the coalition leader and the entire coalition. The new Slovenia probably did not understand what was going on and submitted to the gentlemen of the Slovenian People's Party and did what they thought was right. I think that the matter is such that this needs to be corrected and we will certainly be working together to make this right. We have already introduced a law amending the law, where, if this law goes through, it is then amended to the extent that three regions are reintroduced. However, if the veto succeeds, then we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce its law as soon as possible, a complex law that will regulate it and in that case, and then we are prepared to withdraw our law as long as the three regions are listed. I think it would make sense in the future for you to discuss within the coalition before any decision is taken on your solo performance, especially not on the detriment of the entire Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. President. Very short replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u36	It's just a short replica. I don't know where Mr Jelinčič came from; I think he kicked home into the darkness, because by no means, it wasn't our plot, these two countries. On the contrary, I, too, took the initiative to coordinate when the problem arose, to find a way to reach these three wine-growing countries. This is why I don't accept your trip to our client and to our group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Sok, there's also a replica of Mr. Jelinčič. Here you go. It's short, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u38	I would like to tell my colleague Jelinčič - I do not have much time - that in Novi Slovenija, I hope to say, we know much more about agriculture than in your party, whose representative does not normally attend, comes and goes. As far as your comments are concerned. I'm sure we're not going to your client's house for advice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Thank you. The word has magic. Tomaž Strabe. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Your Honor! The time we adopted this marriage was obviously more than bad. And that's because obviously the thoughts were focused elsewhere, on fame, on Christmas celebrations, on New Year's Eve, etc. and also with the assistance of products produced under this law. But when a person looks at the details when he goes to look at magnetograms, when he has to face a decision to make again, he actually finds out a lot. I could say that in this case it is a matter of a law being drawn up with which the government is wrung by the nation and the government. Why do I say that? In fact, the Minister of Agriculture said in her introduction: "Of course, these amendments have been prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, not all except the editorial ones which have been prepared in the service of the Committee, and none of the others have reached the end of the deadline, so no amendments have been tabled until 26.11.2005." So it also means that the amendment for two countries was created by the Ministry. Of course, I wonder who represents who. Today there were many speeches, some representing vineyards, others representing provinces, etc., and on this same committee says, the representative of the agricultural forestry chamber: "I represent vineyards and they demand three countries". Immediately after him, from the wine-growing business community, which also represents vineyards, he said: "The profession says and we say that it is necessary to introduce two countries into Slovenia." This is a magnetogram of the Committee on Agriculture, of course I did not invent it and I am not pleased to note from this amendment that it was something that would actually be of particular benefit to Mr Janc, because I will also tell him something about the law that has regulated the situation of the exercise. So something wasn't right. Something wasn't right, something wasn't coordinated, and, of course, there were such violent reactions later, despite the warnings. The warnings on the committee were, without knowing who proposed, it is not clear from this who proposed the two countries but only that the Ministry, based on some other stories, has prepared amendments for two countries, but not to be able to identify who really is the author, but it is not essential. The important thing is that we really need to look at who represents who here and whose interest he advocates. I believe that farmers grow grapes. The business community is probably large basements as well as other market producers, but nevertheless these have some common point, probably all dealing with the same thing with production, processing and marketing of wine. So, there was obviously no harmonisation and thorough preparation here. In the end, he won an obvious lobby because this was a lobby between the two entities that the lobby business community won, perhaps on a professional basis, perhaps not. I'm sure the law can't handle two things. First time. To ensure the production of wine processed in certain areas that are being marketed poorly, I believe that the answer to this is not in the law. So, what kind of wine do they produce, how do they manage it, what do they do with marketing and so on? Secondly, it cannot prevent abuse in the event of illicit processing of grapes into wine, provided that the producers themselves, the marketers themselves and, of course, inspections by the State do not arrange this. The law can't handle this on its own. I would be much more pleased if there could be a wine country in Slovenia. I am absolutely against being teased or whatever, because it seems to me that this is something beyond what would be the product of nature and so on. But since that is the case, of course it is possible and should be handled accordingly. Clearly, it has not been a successful approach to this matter. When I actually thought that I didn’t have to deal with this law, I was relatively satisfied when I saw two countries and so on. But something bothered me - we have such a beautiful name for Primorsko, but everything else we put under Eastern Slovenia. Explain, understand, who can! I don't understand and I think it's unfortunate, so you should sit down and figure out how to proceed. I'm not rooting for two, not three wine countries. I believe, and you can believe that I know how and why the law came into existence, not the law about the practice, but how the wine law changed, so that we arranged a special situation for the exercise. And Mr. Sok is right. Mr Sok is right - that he will not say that I never agree with him - a drill in no part is at risk if, of course, what must be valid among the producers, among those who market, something called business morality, something called honesty and so on. He's not at risk, and he has no connection. It would be nice to say that we have a land of Dolenjska with a white landscape or a valley and a white landscape where this special is cultivated. But when we have Posavje and Podravje, it is one way or another unclear, for Sava is the one with the right and left bank, and Posavje is on the right and the left bank, and he must not ride over this Sava, and he cannot drive and so on. And just putting Posavia back together won't solve anything. So I actually believe that now is the time for all those nonsensees that have been said here and have appeared in the newspapers over the past few weeks, how this threatened exercise has been eliminated or explained how this has nothing to do with it. As I believe, this will not save the Styrian wine market if we go to two countries. Something is wrong, Mr Sok, in the profession, if you want, in agricultural policy, that the two wine-growing countries have managed to raise themselves with quality, sales etc. to some level. Not one of them. Can answers be found elsewhere? I think that, and perhaps on the Committee on Agriculture, it would be appropriate to think in this direction. I don't know why dry wine sells better and they drink it more than half-sweet, half-dry, etc. Or else! I may be able to answer that question, but that's something that can't fix the law. This needs to be done by producers, professionals and traders involved in marketing. That's my opinion. I think we should look at something else. If what I read before yesterday is true, Austria does not have a single register to which the government law referred and which introduces registers for individual assets used in wine growing, which means only one institution for each preparation of 30,000 tolars, each of which is used or imported today, and will already have 150 for sale, and will have to pay to continue selling them to such an extent, to someone just by entering them into a register. In Austria it is said that -- this is what I read -- it was an attempt to do it and they failed. Study. I don't know, but I read the papers, I read the contributions they're sending me. Therefore, it is right not to adopt this law and to prepare it for the better in due course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'd fix something, though. The Slovenian People's Party here has been very strongly protesting. But someone could have already tabled an amendment to the existing law. So if it's not from the Slovenian People's Party - it's just some taboo created here today - no one wants to talk about it, who's amended the government law, then probably, Mr. Sok, you'll be so honest and you'll say "we put it in." And this amendment changed the essence of this law. So, I would like to add something to how much honesty there is in us all here in the National Assembly, we will soon see when we adopt a law on so-called wine taxation and we are keenly opposed to having wine taxed at a 20% rate and demand that old cadastral taxation be enforced. Because if this happens, then it's really over for winemakers in Slovenian. And if we have already translated for one truck of regulations from various foreign languages that have come from Brussels, we will also be able to settle this area by means of a European directive. This is what we owe the winemakers. Whether there will be two or three wine-growing areas, regions, of course, this is welcome, because there will also be descriptions of wines, lands, landscapes, people, etc. However, what I mentioned earlier is the tax, and how much real support there will be, the legal, with the applicable European legislation in this area, and I am giving this existence to the winemakers, and here we will see your honesty, soon, very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Thank you. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Your Honors are here! I'm glad what they call "and wine veritas" turned out to be. There is some truth, but I'm surprised that this truth has changed in a few days since we had this topic on the board. It's a miracle revelation again today. When we voted on the committee, we are as the majority thinks today, and of course the state council, for which I thank and attach to it. That's when we thought about it, one vote two, and one vote three. I am glad that this realization has come to light that if we see that the law is not the best, or not all after all, to correct it when it is still in the process. And that's what we're doing today. We also advocated this at the last board meeting. But I would like to remind you of these things, which is, with Squeaky, it's a blank shot. In this story, it is not about Cviček, but I would like to ask that besides wine-growing landscapes, we also fix those things that the state's professionally cited, especially wine-suffering. Once in history, but only once did it happen that we made wine out of water. Today, however, it is obvious that we are doing late harvesting by making it rainy. In particular, this affects any of the 100,000 diabetes patients in Slovenia. I call upon the expert to resolve this in this new law. There were some other technical explanations on this subject. There's a lot more to be said about straw wine. It is simply that if we want this wine, which we obviously have too much, we sell to Europe and the world to sell what is sweet sun, not sugar from the sugar factories we have and we will have problems in the future. That is why I will gladly support this veto of the State Council and the non-admission of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'll start myself with a saying, "When the wine comes, the mind goes away." It depends on the amount of wine, intelligence and intelligence. However, it strongly indicated that this would happen to us when we adopted this wine law. Indeed, it is not understandable how even on the Agriculture Committee of the motherland, the time-limit offered and the possibility of reconsidering the veto of the State Council would not be taken into account. We knew that the marriage was bad, that the amendment had made matters worse, and that it would cause a great deal of dissatisfaction, and that a veto had been put on to make matters right. On Friday, the committee made it very clear that such a bad marriage would be confirmed. I am also sure that it is not as Mr Jelinčič said that gentlemen from the State Council have adopted such a veto after the whisper of the wise. I am sure that smart people are also sitting there and that they should be thanked for giving us the opportunity, that obviously this law will not be adopted today, and that the government will have the opportunity to make a better proposal, which will be more written on the skin of those who produce wine.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! With many who have spoken before me today, I could say that I agree or disagree. Just before we toasted the new year, of course, we adopted a wine law in the National Assembly, and just before the new year, 23.12., the State Council voted a suspended veto on the law. I think that this is all right and that everything was going according to the rules of the game that we just have set up and that there is nothing wrong here. And that there is absolutely nothing wrong with re-decisions on content today. Of course, it seems to me that some professional aspects should be highlighted here in particular. While the proposal for a new law is a step forward in the regulation of problematic points in the production of grapes and wines, it is not sufficiently up-to-date and more broadly coordinated to allow for a significant improvement in the situation in the field of sectoral legislation. The wine industry is in a rather unenviable position, in which it is being pressured on the one hand by its unregulated Slovenian wine market, and by its limited production problems due to its geographical origin, on the other hand, by the increasingly severe competition of foreign wines equal to or better quality at competitive prices. For the time being, he can thank the local buyers for their survival, who, let us say, are very loyal to them. If we move to concrete proposals in the new wine law, one of the hottest are those who prescribe a new or double name for wines of the traditional name of CTU and of the ultimate wines of the CFSP. Perhaps a slightly overly formalistic approach to the pooling of producers and the introduction of collective trademarks. Distribution of wine-growing areas into countries and environments, which is particularly problematic in wine-growing countries in Podravje where I come from and Posavje. Planting varieties, crosses, not natives that do not belong to the species "vitis vinifera", which prevents additional choice of varieties in organic production. In part also the education of future wine inspectors and the regulation of the conditions for wine tasters in authorised wine assessment organisations. In all the content that I have just said, I also wanted to participate actively when the bill came into existence, but frankly, some people are running out of time. In the case of a new double wine name, there will be some kind of simplification for the farmer who will be able to use the Slovenian and foreign terms on the label, but it is the meaning of labelling in simplifying things for the buyer and not for the farmer. The buyer will be even more confused in the event of a double name than he is now. The distribution into wine-growing countries and wine-growing environments within the current wine-growing country of Podravje is unacceptable in the actual sense of protection of geographical origin, as it comes from one extreme to another, from too fragmented division to too grave. In any case, we should also think about the cross-species of grapes and wines, and not of nationals, and include them in the interduction of the vine in Slovenia. When educating wine inspectors, we should certainly strive to have at least a university education. In laying down the conditions for participation in wine assessment, however, ensure that the system is as open as possible, where the assessment may include the widest possible range of interested and qualified tasters, where the conditions must be primarily economical, to restore the suitability of the tasters, to assess the same for those already in the system and those who have just entered it. I am confident that the applicants or the constituents of this law will have at least some of what I have also listed and that Members and Members of the National Assembly will be able to decide again on the wine law, which will be more acceptable, simpler for both producers and consumers, and will improve the conditions that it will also bring into line with European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Thank you. Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I am also of the opinion that this wine law, which is always becoming the law of Cvičko, at least from this debate, is bad and it seemed from the debate that some seem to forget that alongside Cvič in Slovenia we also have top wines, such as Renski Riesling and others coming from other areas. That the marriage was bad, we could also see from the fact that the vineyards were not pleased with it. The profession had a lot of comments on it and, finally, users are not protected by this law, they do not get what they deserve and what they might expect. It's not so much about the number of countries, but I'm going to touch the sweetness of the wine. I'm stressing the sweetening of the wine. Adding sugar to must is a way in which, in the case of sugar itself, it is too small to be able to return to such a level of alcohol to stabilize wine, sugar must is added. But certainly not wine, which now came to the little door. The following thing, and also the health aspect of doing so already mentioned. If sugar is added, at least half of this glucose extract will become very dangerous for diabetics instead of fructose, at higher calorie levels. And if the law also wants to protect producers, it must certainly ensure the traceability of wine and thus also trust customers who, at comparable prices on shelves, prefer to choose Slovenian wine, which will be healthier and also provide greater security. I will not support this law, and I will take advantage of the opportunity that the Council of State has given us and rejected it, thus creating opportunities for us to get an even better marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to justify the reasons for rejecting the law from a completely different point of view, as we have discussed so far. In fact, we have known in the National Assembly so far the referendum will of the people when we decided on the laws. The Government or the Ministry of Agriculture introduces a completely new practice in this law, in the process of enacting the law. It's a so-called name poll. This is a completely new category that we have not known in the process of enacting laws in the National Assembly. The government says that if the name survey in Posav is such, we will propose such a law, if it is different, we will propose a different one. It is very unusual and I think that a truly inadequate approach, particularly to the National Assembly, must be decided on the content of the law and therefore it is extremely important that today this law is also rejected for the reason that we do not introduce any new practice, so-called nominee surveys, which should have a decisive impact on how the national assembly will vote, what laws the government is supposed to make, and so on. To have such procedures, it is necessary to define them either in the constitution or in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but it is not acceptable how it is proposed today. I was therefore very surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, due to the different opinions of winegrowers on two or three wine-growing countries, will make a name survey and the Ministry will propose to the government that it submit a proposal for amendments to the National Assembly following an urgent procedure, according to the outcome of this survey. Therefore, I believe that today's decision is also important because we maintain the practice of adopting laws so far, and that we will also further commit law-makers to seriously consider how they are investing quality laws in the procedure of the National Assembly. Last but not least, the rules of procedure that we have been amending have been designed primarily to put the applicants in a significantly more responsible position than was possible before, because the adoption process itself in the National Assembly is much faster than ever and therefore the texts must also be of significantly higher quality than ever before. Unfortunately, we can see that the wine law has not followed this practice. If he did not follow this quality preparation, once again I justify that it is indeed incorrect that today, let us confirm this, because tomorrow a name survey will show a different position and we will make a different decision - something new and above all, I will say, contrary to applicable practice, legislation, rules of procedure and, lastly, if you wish, also with the constitution. That is why today, once again, I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Geza Juban, who has very little time at his disposal, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u54	I don't even need him anymore. Thank you very much. I think it's best if we vote. The outcome of the vote is well known. The government probably knows what to do. Indeed, the last comments made by the biggest government party are so extensive that it is clear that the whole law needs to be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u55	Thank you. I give the floor to a representative of the government. You want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does he want a word with a representative of the state council? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. All the Members who have declared themselves willing to do so have been given the floor. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Grill, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Besides, I don't think I need to say what I want to say for five minutes. It is interesting to listen to today's debate and to all the populism that colleagues are doing here at the expense of this law. I would like to point out that the government has already been prepared in the process of adopting this law for these changes, which we have tried to implement on the basis of the expectations of the farmers of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina. Unfortunately, due to the procedures in force, it was no longer possible to table any amendments to that voted amendment on the Committee. That is why I am also surprised that all those who knew these things - personally I am not, because I am not a member of this committee - did not make these proposed changes at the time that this was possible. And if you remember [[This is also evident from the magnetogram]] , the Minister made it clear that in the event that the interest is to introduce or establish in law 3 countries that the government will also invest it in January. I am very happy that it is an opportunity now, so I will also support this veto, but especially for this reason, that now such a law can be drawn up that will take into account the will of all those "affected" wine growers of Dolenjska and also of the White Krajina. Here I also welcome the hearing of the government that it has also tried to determine the will of those growers by means of surveys and has received only an additional assurance that what we have also warned Members from that area is indeed true. So I expect that this law, which will now be prepared, will realize all these expectations and then we will adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, you want a replica? I didn't notice he'd be named. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u58	In the part where Mr. Grill said we didn't table any amendments, those we now speak populistally. Mr. Grill, I must have read the magnetogram just like you. The government has drawn up a law for three countries, the rapporteur is here, three countries, after a magnetogram in the introduction of the Minister said that all amendments had been prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, and none of the others had drafted amendments until the deadline expired. So, the ministry has prepared, the chairman has apparently put to the vote some draft amendment for two countries and this has happened with most of the coalition. This comes from this magnetogram, which I read just like you, so it's useless to point out the populism that is supposed to be carried out by those who are now reminding us that there was actually something wrong with this process and that then it got complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u59	Thank you. This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision will be taken today, as part of the vote, at 11.45 a.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 11.45 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u60	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly, which is to move on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card; in this case, the vote may take place. I see there's no problem with the voting devices. We're moving on to the broken 1st item of the agenda. We will decide on the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the sixth indent of paragraph 6 of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 9. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I'm closing the 1st item of the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing 16 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 17, paragraph 9, of the RTV Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We have several applications to explain our vote. Does any of the applicants want to do so on behalf of the parliamentary group first? Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For Slovenians and Slovenians, a very important topic that takes public television and transforms it goes slowly to the end. Of course, we do not agree with this in the LDS Club, because it is with the appointment of these 16 councillors and councilors of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council that this matter will begin to take effect. That this story is about how television and the public media get under the influence of politics, it is clear, and in the LDS Member Club we oppose it. We also got confirmation yesterday. Allow me to begin by expressing my regret, on behalf of the LDS Club, that the ruling coalition prevented the opposition yesterday from continuing the debate at this point by voting against a procedural proposal to extend the debate. It is interesting to note in this respect that as many as 12 Members of the 22 who applied for the debate voted against the proposal, which would allow all those who were reported to have further discussions on this important topic. Of course, we have also addressed a certain request to the President of the National Assembly in this regard, and I express my belief that, of course, the President will agree with this request and that the College will discuss it. Otherwise, our opinion is already in principle, and almost half of the Slovenes and Slovenes are attached to this opinion, but the law is already in force and, of course, the television programme is not even better for this, nor is it cheaper, but the appointment of these 16 saints shows that most are named on the basis of political criteria and non-professional. We regret that the representatives of writers, musicians, filmmakers, athletes and, of course, because there are no experts in the media field have emerged from such an important story. That it is decisive and, of course, the most important influence of policy in this story also confirms that 14 of the 16 candidates who were surrounded by the leader of the main parliamentary group in the coalition and, of course, one of the smaller ones have come to the programme world. This, of course, indicates that in this story it is a political story that will turn television, which is relatively expensive for all Slovenes and Slovenians, from public television to national television controlled by politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Thank you. On behalf of the Member of Parliament also, Mr Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Nor will we support the MEPs and members of the Socialists of this proposal. You will remember, in particular, the Members and members of the coalition, that you argued all day yesterday and prevented us from making any political agreement. I have here today, of course, chronic proof, despite the fact that the ballots were public, this is a coalition agreement, a leaf leaf that you got in the parliamentary groups and it says: "3rd point. The proposal for a decision appointing five members or members of the RTV Programme Council is supported by Jože Hribernik SDS, Tino Mamič NSI, Dr Jan Bezenšek SLS, Dr Vlado Miheljak LDS and Dr Jernej Pikalo SD." "Point 4. We support the proposal for the appointment of 16 members or members of the RTV Programme Board in the first round of 12 proposals Ivo Faganel, plus the number Huber Požarnik, Tanja Kuštrin, Danilo Roškar, Alenčica Marija Bole Vrabec, Gregor Pivec, Jože Snoj, Bine Matoh, Boris Cipo, Stane Granda and Dr. Johnz Stochet and Mita Trefa, and the comment on support in the second round will be agreed and the note, which is when several times I say that you are a well-bred school class, when voting, see names and surnames, the numbers before the candidates are not fixed. And also the fifth point, "the proposal for a decision to appoint five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia support, Franc Oresnik, mag. Klemen Jaklič, Leopold Gegorac, Nikola Damjanič and Tomaž Orazem". It says what I said in the introduction yesterday and later, is here today, and you've been arguing for five hours that it's not a deal, that it's not about your selection of civil society, that you didn't politically agree on who represents this civil society and so on. And because of this misdirection and deception of the Slovenian public, of course we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. I must say that this is, of course, a pure abuse of the rules of procedure. In fact, the explanation of vote is now, and please, I will not stop anyone, including other Members, who will also abuse the rules of procedure in defence of their positions. So much for your knowledge, you say what you want. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to an explanation of vote in our own name. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u65	First, I'd like to ask a colleague who's been reading this note so vehemently to bring it here, and he'll show me who's under it, because I'm going to assume that he did it himself. But I must say that I have neither seen nor heard of this leaf. As you know, I've been with RTV for a while. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Please be quiet. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Been busy for weeks and months, so I guess we could at least make something up. [[...]] What really matters is the letter that is before us today. Why it is worth confirming today's organs is clear. The law states that the deadline for this is 12, which will just expire and the second time, because it is on this list, regardless of the fact that no one is fully satisfied with it, many names that are of exceptional quality and for which everyone, in my firm belief, can believe and rightly believe, because of the things that these people have already achieved in life, will be able to contribute positively to the development of a good RTV Slovenia programme. Besides Binet Matoh, Ivan Štuhec, Jožet Snoj, Staneta Grande, Gregor Pivc, Jožet Faganel, and a whole bunch of good people, I'm going to highlight someone. That's Mito Trefalt, fellows. Mito Trefalt, who was doing the best entertainment program this radio show has ever had in years. You can have your opinion on this, but who once watched Saturday night, and all those shows in which he directly participated, today, independently of the political orientation in the conversation, agrees that the program was better than ever before or after. And this Mr Mito Trefalt was then completely politically removed, that was not professional. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It was a political decision to make a man because he didn't stick in the same horn with the majority that he somehow specialises so far as to remove him, and that's why. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to take your heart to believe that, with your public television outlets, you will not turn into a regime trumpet, but rather the one-year humane desolation in the economy, in administration, in health, in education, unfortunately does not inspire hope and I would like to recall an anecdotes or jokes when the Soviet Union and America competed for space domination, and the Soviet Union painted the moon red and America was written in white letters by Coca-Cola. What you're doing is something like coloring the moon black and writing it in white letters, either SDS or coalition, so of course I won't support your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The substantive reasons why we will vote against this proposal have been clarified in the Group yesterday and I believe that they do not need to be further explained to each other. You have opted for the law through which you will take over RTV Slovenia and this will succeed with this appointment. I would like, on this occasion, Mr President, not to abuse the rules of procedure, to say another reason why I will oppose. Indeed, today we are deciding on the world of RTV on the basis of a law which, in one point, I am going to talk about, will not be possible to implement. This is the third parliamentary programme. I have a letter, a revised letter from Master Lovr Lončar, where he informs me, as head of the parliamentary group, that in due course, I can say for a while, with the transfer of the meetings of the National Assembly, there will be nothing new than what we have so far. Through the cable program, about 60% of viewers and viewers will be allowed only extraordinary sessions, which are already arranged, solemn sessions and so on, will be no more and will not be possible. With regard to the work of the home, however, only from the large hall in Tomšičev, should the President of the National Assembly decide which working body is the right one and must be transported directly at that time. This was due to the definition that we should have a third parliamentary channel which transmits all meetings of the National Assembly, the Council of State, the working bodies, gives comments on this and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the irresponsible conduct of the minister who proposed such a law and you, who forced him, continued to know that it would not be possible to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Procedurally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u75	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u76	I merely ask that you allow me to explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members, which our Member has not taken advantage of so far and I will justify precisely the contrary facts as they have now been mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u77	Mr Grimes, I asked if anyone else wanted it on behalf of the Group of Members, but no one answered. Therefore, an explanation of the votes of individual Members is now under way. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u78	As I said yesterday, I will not support this proposal. Firstly, because we are already voting on the composition of a majority that will produce an RTV programme, it is wrong. Secondly, you have chosen an absolute majority in this programming world, however you turn, you have this majority, and whatever you draw, this majority will determine those people who will make the program, from directors to editors, and it doesn't matter how this majority you choose will rule. We will see the outcome of all this; viewers and viewers, listeners and listeners will see it, and they will judge it from the outside. I don't trust these people, as important as they are, of course. Yesterday, you yourself told us what you wanted to watch and listen to on radio and television, entered the content of the program and thus informed the new members of the programming board how to design this program. For the program must be of interest to you, and if so, this group of Commissioners by government parties will also carry out their task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'll support this proposal. Yesterday and today, fear continues, what will happen if such a leaf is confirmed, what will happen, and what will not happen, that the sun will probably turn and so on. If I am right, let me quote you a very brief paragraph in the editorial comment of a financial journal in Slovenia - it is said that this is not some unrealistic medium, but a very serious one - which says: "People who occupy key supervisory positions on RTV these days would like only one thing: do it in this house order! Because it is a shame that citizens of Slovenia pay something we do not need through electricity bills. For it is a pity that there are many people on RTV who want to do good, good, and wise work, but because of the wetlands and impenetrable vines they cannot come to terms. The politicians who take your positions, if there's anything in your pants, you'll go with the machete to this feast." Otherwise, I do not define that it should be so harsh, and you know me that I probably don't think so because we have enough democratic methods. And I think that this method, when we confirm today's names for the authorities of this large institution, is just the right democratic method and then the rest will also take place in the spirit of laws and democracy. Which is why, of course, I'm going to support this list. This is just an example of how some others think about the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Rugelj has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this programme council and other matters. I think there's been a lot of deception here. Whoever was on the election committee knows that we voted there six times because it happened that no one got enough votes, and then somehow we had to bring things to an end. And I think that the matter has been very democratically made by so many votes, and if that claim on what kind of arrangements is held, I think the coalition is putting together so many votes to confirm it immediately. So that I have absolutely nothing to do with what the gentleman said before, but I think that the programming world has been really chosen in a democratic way, and I also think that even representation in the programming world, including Dr Vlado Miheljak or Dr. Hribar's Memorial and such names speak for themselves, so that I do not see any obstacles to such a programming world being confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u84	I will vote against this proposal, because the announcement made in this Chamber in its old form is being fulfilled, we expect and we will make it possible for the journalists on RTV to experience the freedom of singing. Of course, this is what the current Prime Minister has said, it has now been a long time, the illustration will no longer have to be done in this way, because the adjustment has already been so great and those who for decades created under that programme have not been removed at this time, but have left themselves. Fear is so great now that it is easier to give up a sports event than by shooting or transferring it from a cathedral or from a church. Natalija has already received three shows, others have disappeared, I expect Mr Loize to receive his show, which was expected yesterday to sit in the world so that the programme could be better. And this is what will happen in this way of appointing this world, because it is also a delusion that it is better for the National Assembly to elect representatives of civil society, it is truly distasteful, because civil society has so far proposed from its own directly to the world representatives, not through these secret lists as they have been here. Finally, I have to explain what I couldn't do yesterday because we shouldn't have spoken and Sok was misquoting. The recorder of initiatives for new congregations in the Alojz Sok National Assembly from Ormož is convinced that he has already secured a city in history. People who do not want a new congregation are publicly built up to bring confusion. It's a good thing he's never brought this mess in before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u86	I will support this proposed programming board myself. I believe that members and proposed members of the personality are trustworthy, who also enjoy confidence in the general Slovenian public. And I am sure that such a programming world, which will be elected today, will successfully lead our RTV, that the programme will also be better than it has been so far or at least more varied. Yesterday it was said that we were going into the program, normally we were going into the program, because it's the program we're looking at. Some prefer sports, others prefer artistic stuff, third music, fourth mass, and so I'll say, I have to leave my seat in front of the TV a lot, because there's a handball machine that I don't care about because there's football that I don't care about that much. On Sunday I sat in front of the TV, because I was interested in something, this is an event that happened in Slovenia after a few years, handball I know that I will be able to watch in a few days again, etc., so it is said that TV was carrying an event that does not happen every year in Slovenia. Of course, to those like me, I have to turn off the TV when things don't work out for me when I like it, because the TV has a remote or a button that can turn off, so someone who just couldn't stand the chair thing could turn off the TV and stop watching it. All I'd say is Mr. Kumr. I didn't get any sign of candidates, but it's true that you've been in the government for a long time and you know how things work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Please, gentlemen, calm down. Only Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u90	I have already started my debate at the meeting of the Election Commission by stressing that fear is spreading across this country and, of course, fear is spreading mainly through media houses, especially on RTV and, of course, in the daily newsroom. I think we all see this, not just Members and Members of Parliament, but also viewers and viewers of television, and this fact is such that there is no need for specific evidence. It is a matter of disciplining journalists, it is a matter of subjugating the daily information editors and of course the evidence, so last day it has been said enough, but today it could still be listed for a substantial period of more than two minutes. The fact is also that things are going on with the new law exclusively on human and substantive matters, but not where the referendum and the law have spoken about it, so in the third channel, things are improving because Mr Trefalt has already been mentioned today, once the popular Košnikov's inn is widely promoted by my assessment with a significant disadvantage of Joževč's inn. Of course, I will not support this, but I do not hope that today the gentleman who has been so vehemently looking for the authors or those who have given the crop leaves will not be as fearful as he admitted after the referendum that he was actually the author of the law on RTV and not some professional public even three months later admit that he was also the author of this leaf crop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. In addition to the representatives of individual civil society groups already appointed in the RTV Slovenia programming world today, there is also no place for a representative of the Slovenian minority coordination or representative of 170,000 Slovenians living outside the Slovenian state border in neighbouring countries: Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia. I am sorry that there was no representative of the Slovak Slovenes on the bill of lading or coalition voting instructions received by the government members of the elected commission. We know that this coalition is so committed to the adoption of a law on relations with Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. As a mandatory reading on this item of the agenda, I suggest that they read today's article from under the pen of Vlad Miheljak in the newspaper Dnevnik entitled Convert, Apostates and Blind Passengers. I will vote against this composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! I'm probably not going to give you any surprising news if I say I'm going to vote against this composition of the programming board. I've been around a lot. [[...]] [[Mr. Pojbich will applaud me, let's wait a minute. It's about my time. Thank you.]] Of course, I have repeatedly pointed out that such a composition of the Programme Council means the transmission of public broadcasting to the ruling coalition and to the state. [[...]] I was also concerned, for example, that I did not know exactly what the criteria for these candidates were. Apart from what is written in the law, there are no other criteria. At this hour, however, I have learned at least two criteria. The first is common sense, and secondly, I understand, is the firm conviction of a fellow Member of Grimes. These two criteria are being excluded, so it was difficult to choose the right list and we have what we have. At the same time, however, I must warn my colleagues that public broadcasting under LDS' iron heel has made some progress. She made progress from Mita Trefalta's inn to Joževac's inn, led by Natalija Verboten. I think that's some progress. And at least you'll give me that loan after you run your own TV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A New Professional World [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u98	and I will gladly support all the rest of the working bodies, because, as has already been said, while the state of Austria does not respect the State Treaty, while Italy does not respect the protection law, we allow us on national television on the regional travel programme of all Slovenians, because Koper is seen in 70% of the volume in Italian throughout Slovenia. [[...]] And I hope that this composition will remedy this error, because we have already written a series of letters, requests, parliamentary initiatives that have not been heard and I hope they will be this time. There is no country in Europe that would allow this to be allowed through national television to allow the minority to travel most. Thank you very much. With our money.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support the proposal for a decision to appoint the members of the Programme Council, and in particular I would like to base my endorsement of this proposal of the Decision on the basis of the great consensus and consensus reached in the drafting of the proposal for a decision, in particular as regards the way in which it is chosen. None of the members of the Election Commission who carried out this transaction objected to the agreed method of drawing up the decision. Here I would also like to point out that we have introduced a specific practice of public voting, which has been used for the first time and I hope that the decision-making practice will remain in the work of the elected commission. That is why I am convinced that this proposal is worthy of support because it has been designed in such an indisputable and agreed manner. However, as regards the opposition of some individuals to this proposal, I fully understand it because it is humane to understand that the existing programme world is more at the heart of the opposition, but that the new programming world will be more at the will of the coalition, and it is also legitimate and at the will of the electorate and must be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This debate shows that the monitoring of the work and functioning of the Programme Council will be extremely strong and that is why I will also support this proposal. The fact is that it is high time for our national television to be introduced into this, that information and information are important, not the political colour of this information. It was a 12-year job and a long time ago, when it was known who could talk and what could talk. If someone was released from the other side, they knew very well what he would say, what they would ask, and how they would ask him. This will end now, and I am sure that the transparency and work of this new RTV house will be significantly better than it has been before. I also do not understand the statements made by some that fear is spreading through RTV, especially in the daily news edition, because it is evident that it is still being done in accordance with the old principles and not in principle that information is important, and that different weights, different information, because otherwise the Ljubljana television would have shown that Ambassador Luka, with the presence of a military attaché, together with representatives of the General Staff of Serbia and Montenegro, the representative of the Aviation Union of Slovenia and the International Aviation Organization, would have laid a wreath on Edward Rusjan's grave, but they showed a better one day before some privates arrived there. Because in this case it would not be necessary to show SDS members and SNS how they lay their wreaths, but they could have done it with their left hand, otherwise. It is high time something changed, it is high time that those who blocked the work of television and completely politicized it were thrown out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Battelli has the floor. Excuse me. Procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support this proposal. There's at least one name here that, as I say, represents impatience. And given that nobody really objects to impatient works and even statements and nobody replicates them, neither in the media nor in the general public, then I can assume that there are views that this gentleman is always representing, especially with regard to the Italian television program Koper, especially with this. I can only assume that his appointment will also create a real climate, so that such brats will be finally satisfied. For these reasons, I will not support this. As for these accusations, which are politically ideological and so on, believe me, it is simply necessary to conclude that Slovenia has not come far from transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, procedural proposal. Just please do not abuse the rules of procedure and do not use the procedural proposal for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u106	Mr President already, but then I ask you how can you not then warn the rest of you who are discussing that yesterday I made it very clear that if I made up this list, probably most of the names would be exactly the same, but some of them are certainly different and are now allowed to speak here on my account anything possible, and then I have no right to answer. And secondly, if we do not allow the exercise of the right that belongs to the Group of Members to explain my word, I should explain that it is obvious that the establishment of the new bodies is the moment in which we can actually come to the realization of the law, because it is necessary in the authorities that it is in the interest of doing so, because, instead, it is only for reasons to be sought. There are also reasons to say there are still no transmissions on channel 3. But in order to be transferable, you were able to see for yourself yesterday. On the submerged network, this can be done, if desired, within existing capacities and frequencies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u108	How else can this be explained here, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Mr. Grimes, I'm going to say again what I said at the beginning. Mr Kumer triggered the situation today to change the voice-explanatory institute when he began the controversy. And you all know that there is no replica in explanation of vote, so it is rude to exploit this institution in terms of controversy. But since this has started, I must also allow others to speak in line with their level of political culture. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I find it difficult to agree with such anarchic leadership of the National Assembly, because if you think that someone is in initial violation of the Rules of Procedure, then it does not give you the right to allow it to all but, above all, to those who do so. And back to the explanation of the voice. Why is it impossible to support this list? It's not so much about people, it's about each other and it's a very important thing. This is about the politicalisation of civil society, those civil society that the European Union has always given greater importance to, which it always places on, and which it attaches to, the ever greater influence in life itself in the European Union as well as its members, that is to say, the members of this civil society themselves. It is civil society that can, as direct associations based on their interests, bring together members of similar interests, help the most to what people want, what they expect, and not least what they want to watch on television. And this kind of politicisation of civil society is not only dangerous, but it points to a new trend, as the country has begun to withdraw from the economy by taking over it, as the state has wanted to withdraw from RTV by taking over it. Here we see a forecast of civil society withdrawing in such a way that it is taken over, it is managed and it is politicised. And I'm afraid where this is going to go, even more so, because now it's going to have a lot of help in public RTV, and I'm afraid it's not going to be that way anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal of the Election Commission for the following reasons. The law under which this proposal is drafted has been adopted, has been approved at the referendum and we are obliged to implement the law. Given the fact that the proposal was forwarded to the electoral commission on a democratic basis, it is now, of course, quite demagogic to mention one or another name on this list. Given that we have heard a lot of comments in yesterday's debate on the implementation of the law in a substantive sense, I would like to point out to fellow Members who have comments to refer to the current leadership, which is carrying out the substantive work of RTV Slovenia; they should be referred to because there is simply no new leadership. Once there is a new leadership, I am sure that the law will be implemented as it needs to be implemented. The law must be implemented, as I said, and in Parliament we must do what the law tells us to do. Today we must decide on the proposal that was, once again, shaped in a democratic way. It seems that some of your colleagues have expected that there will be no names on this list that you support, and you are now a little disappointed. Personally, I wouldn't support any of these names because they don't belong on this stage anymore. However, given what I said was democratic and what democracy is, the parliamentary procedure is clear, I think there is no other way than to vote on it. Of course, I want a new leadership that, on the basis of, I hope, the now adopted programming world, according to the hands, very thick skin, because the main work to make RTV Slovenia a real public television or a real public institution is about to begin.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. If I borrow the words of my esteemed fellow Member, I will say so, I have no doubt that the coalition, together with some converts in this National Assembly, will be confirmed by this Programme Council. Many times in this debate we have listened to the obvious that we, who are now in opposition, have had an impact on this public television and have named ourselves in our own will. But it is important to note the essential difference. We really named and you could, but you've changed the law before. And the important difference is that civil society has previously had the opportunity to appoint a part to the RTV authorities, but now it has only had the opportunity to propose and is called a political or ruling coalition. And that's the essential difference. That's why it's going to be state television and not public television. And I, as the opposition party and as the opposition Member, am not going to assist in this, so I will certainly oppose this proposal. On the other hand, when it comes to enslavement, I would say that if we were not caught in the enslavement, we may have been writing for a good grade; if we were received, we deserved insufficient, and if we were lying to one another, that we might not be gleaning, but we deserved a reprimand. Of course, I will not support this proposal. You have every right to vote! But I think the public will appreciate where this path will go in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Today we will decide on the composition of the professional council by law, which saw the light of the world on April 1st. This date has a special weight in delivery. But I dare say that what this law will bring in its effects will not be a joke. I believe that 16 people who have been appointed and proposed to confirm that they are good people. The second question is whether they are truly representative representatives of all parts of civil society. This civil society is pulling a little bit into one side, I'd say. But given that I am an optimist by nature, I want the coalition to be able to implement the announcement of a better programme, of a reduced subscription, of the 3rd parliamentary channel which it so enthusiastically advocated, and quickly after the adoption and enforcement of the law, the Minister responsible for this area raised his hands from the fact that the Ministry of Culture was responsible for the 3rd programme, and for something else. Because I believe that there is a lot of sense of humor in the Slovenian nation and between citizens and citizens of Slovenia, I want all of us to have some Slovenian Radio Yerevan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I mean, if I were to circle around a leaf earlier, I'd like to credit it with some name from the Slovenians in place and around the world. Today this ticket is a little late. It is expected that two years from now, when the first half of the term expires, this will also be taken into account and that this programme council will also be complemented by the gap on this side. I myself expect this programme council to do much more in implementing certain legislation, such as the law that was passed in this Parliament long ago, the law on visibility and awareness, that this will also come on the agenda in the programming world and that it will be implemented as soon as possible. That some of the shows that have been good, but unfortunately there are no longer for several years, the knowledge of the Slovenian body beyond the borders of the Republic of Slovenia will again see the light of the world. I certainly agree with those who say that civil society is one of the important policy corrections that is necessary. Unfortunately, in the past, too many representatives have taken advantage of the leadership of this civil society by making the policy too much of an intervention and then the matter was imprecise, under some cover of good civil society. In general, I think civil society is good and necessary. Who would have to be replaced with this list, but now it's the same as it is. I'll back him up myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I object to the Programme Council for substantive reasons, not for procedural reasons, because I attach to the opinion of the President of the Immunity Commission that we have made everything clear and transparent there as far as the procedure is concerned and the procedure is concerned. But I would like this programming world to be made up differently. This is also mentioned by the indignant letter from Slovenian musicians addressed to me as in the most leaded times. It is about the company of Slovenian composers protesting such a designation by explaining that music represents at least half of the radio and at least a third of the television programme, but this segment of the programme for the said commission is so irrelevant and irrelevant that it prefers to focus only on the political forces' relationship in the programme world. Thus wrote the Golob and added: "A pity this reminds us more than ever of the most lead years when RTV was exclusively the source of political and other people's, even sports information, and music was just an inkling." I think it's a matter that we can think of and fix on the first chance we get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposal for the composition of the Programme Council itself, because I believe that the law should contain a provision that the Programme Council in the State Assembly should elect a 2/3 majority, not the majority of the votes of all Members. Only in this case could we say that we keep at least a fraction of public broadcasting. We must be aware that the public institution RTV is the only public institution in the field of media, the other media is trying to manage capital. However, this media will be under the new control of most Members, and I think that this is very much the opposite of what public broadcasting is supposed to represent. It's a transition from public to state, and I object. And only by voting today with a 2/3 majority could we talk about how we can listen to each other, how we can negotiate, and how we want to offer such a public radio and television program that will try to be really close to the vast majority of viewers, but not to some narrow choice that is not last seen from the composition of the programming world. An essential lack of diversity is that we can expect a more qualitative and, above all, a more diverse programme. That is why I am going to vote against the programming world, and I would like to see one day a higher breadth in deciding on this composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I will not support this proposal for the reasons I have already stated in the explanation of the Group of Members. I want to make it clear that I think and I'm sure I didn't abuse the rules of procedure. But if I have offended him and have offended anyone through this abuse, I am deeply apologizing to those Members and Members of Parliament. Never, even yesterday and not today, have I argued and said that it is not legitimate for the coalition to agree on these things, but the coalition Members and Members of Parliament were really arguing yesterday and convinced us that all 21 members of the election committee had the same opportunity to choose from these 185 and you argued that this was not a pre-arranged agreement. And today I have only shown you to those eleven, not all the Members who are sitting here today, the election commission from the coalition parties, that you, of course, had this "plonk chatl". I don't know what it is, because you also had a professor who could look through your fingers, because the chairman of the commission is yours, of course, that you could crochet with these sheets. In short, I don't mind the deal you had. You were the only one who argued for five hours yesterday and convinced us that this agreement was not an agreement and that all 21 of us freely elected a representative of civil society on the electoral commission, which is not true, of course. And today I just proved to you that it's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Again, with regard to the notion of abuse, let us all understand equally what the abuse of the voice-explanatory institute is. This was also an abuse, because you are all performing it, because no one can replicate your performance. No one can replicate. And this is a sign of political culture and of the attitude towards other Members. That's it. Mr. Stab, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. I will use that part of my mind, which is positive and supportive of the proposal for a programming council. I will also follow the conclusions, and I am confident of the reasonableness of the electorates and voters and also of the voters in the referendum who have authorized us to decide on this. This is a change that is expected or expected by the voters who have empowered us to do so. And this is a real major change in this public house, in the state house, however you take it. The public, through the State which is therefore authorised, is in charge of these houses. And I hope, in fact, that the composition of the world in this form and all the critical public together with the opposition can and will achieve better functioning of Radiotelevision Slovenia. And not just that. Better operation than national institutions, but also to clean up all that has accumulated in these years. This, in my view, is essential, which will also contribute to its business success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. So the coalition is just doing its job, as we heard yesterday and today. Afterwards, expectations will be met that we will get a national - the concept of public television - members of the coalition obviously don't understand enough - say, a television where Members and the public can influence New Year's and other programmes, where they will achieve a positive report on the US as the main pillar of democracy, where they can sing gloria to government ministers for their achievements. We will also, as we have heard, get a true civil society against the one we have known so far, which, of course, has been verified by the coalition. We will remove the visibility of the TV Koper-Capistria studio because it is disturbing. I, of course, oppose the Council, which will have to meet such expectations. I also do not trust in the assessment of such separate personalities and blind passengers, who demand a word for discussion first and vote against themselves after fifteen minutes. Whether this is an abuse or another form necessary for a special examination, you can decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, I will not support such a well-formed programming world, for we have come to it about as far as we have sometimes come to the right people in the period of so-called cooperative human resources policy. For some I have known from the beginning where they belong, for some today I have been further persuaded by Mile Šetinc in his column. I just thought these days of teaming up human resources policy had passed, and I'm not going to support this programming council. True, fear spreads through public RTV. But it is spreading, to your comfort, also the spirit of political compatibility, not least the spirit of religious compatibility or, more specifically, compatibility with the state church in Slovenia. Otherwise, we could not be witnesses to what we were doing on Sunday. In fact, we were able to watch for three hours in the direct transfer of the dedication of the new bishop, while a representative of the Muslim religious community was able to pay tribute to his believers for a central Muslim religious holiday in time, after sport, and after some advertising, at the end of the diary. And of course it also bothers me, for example, that there is no representative of the evangelical religious community in this programming world, which I also find to be a kind of scandal. Well, we're gonna get better public RTV, but better than what, I wonder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Friday Milan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u132	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! There will be no doubt that these keys that allow me to decide on the law are clear to me - this will be the "against" key because of what I will explain below. The law states that the members of the program world must be respected people, individuals who are creative, successful in their work, that is, those who are successful in their work or creative, that is, those who have proved it by reference, by experience, by knowledge and so on. I believe there are quite a few respectable people on this list, no doubt about it. I don't want to judge either, but nowhere in the law does it say that members of the programming board must be politically guided. This criterion, if I look at these members of the programming board, is predominant. In this programming world, there are more politically manageable than prominent members of the Programme Council. That's why my vote can't be yes, but against. Second reason. It was said that territorial representation must be achieved. I agree, and this is achieved, on the question of what the notion of territorial representation means. Some murmured yesterday that they were satisfied with this territorial representation, thundering against Ljubljana, which had previously dominated people in the programming world, doing so for certain purposes because the elections were coming. But in this territorial representation Maribor has a problem that has mostly political leaders, because two can mention, one who assisted, did not operate, in the operation of Prime Minister Janša, and is also the intended candidate for Mayor of Maribor, and the other is the one who is the ideologist of one church, so radical ideologist, I think we all know his name and this does not convince me that of those who were good candidates, they were politically colourless, they were not able to choose better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am pleased that we are gradually returning to the agenda item, which is to explain the voice and I hope that my debate will not be an abuse either. I will support the programming board myself, and I also support the gradual introduction of the third channel. Why gradually? Since some people are constantly and again, Slovenian viewers need to be prepared to keep it alive, even though they have already heard it a hundred times. I also want to give a chance to the new programming world, which will still replace only half of the people, half of them have already resigned and have been replaced and I expect from the new programming world that they will do well, even though there are some names that I think are controversial. But if I asked you all 90, you'd find a name that doesn't fit him. However, I expect more from them than from the former President of the Olympic Committee, who also wonders how he got there at all, because we have eminent athletes, who are also successful businessmen and lawyers, such as Miro Cerar, Ivo Danev and so on. And I think that if the previous world was at the will of the opposition, it would certainly be new to the audience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u136	President, thank you so much for your word. Usually, some choices are honorable, and some say excessive sacred service. But there are exceptions. At a time when we love ministers, and today, despite the law we have adopted, when we love new saints, this is a political decision. Why political? We both need 46 votes or more. For both of us, there is a question of who will come in and who will not depend on politicians. The only ministers had this at their disposal to have at least the opportunity to be interrogated. In the opposition, we tried to vote on the Commission's mandate to see that some of the members of the new Council who would come to it would have been given the opportunity to present their views on the Commission, but this proposal was rejected by disgust by the position. That is how we are now dealing with deciding whether to give these 16 people our voice or not to give them our voice. I think that when politics has seized the possibility of deciding what is good in civil society, who will best represent its interests for civil society, that it has made a mistake. By giving up politics so that people who have been proposed by civil society can show their view, we have done ourselves a bad service. And the worst service, respected colleagues and colleagues, we did ourselves with this choice, which was political and is only preferable to who is closer to one party than the other. But what I'm most ashamed of is that we didn't include anyone in the field of music or Rudolf Maister. That is why I will oppose this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much, President. No composition of the world would ever, even if you had a feeling in the opposition that you have candidates who are more written on your skin there, fit until they change the voting system to decide what the minority would confirm. It doesn't make any sense to be blinded here at any time. The fears you bring to the public of Slovenia are unjustifiable. I'd like to compare them to those fears of getting into a relationship after you and your activists, especially looking at SD, drawing atomic bombs on the facades, wasting flyers and so on. Today, Slovenia is in NATO. Do any of the Slovenians even feel that we are in this regard, except, of course, the panic you were in with people at the time? Civil society. I was unfortunately more involved in collecting some of the signatures of civil society than not after the accident. When I looked at the list of these civilians, I thought I was looking at the United List, or post-cumulistic manifesto, and participants in this manifesto. Who's scared on RTV? No one should be afraid. No journalist, since you have so far claimed that all journalists are independent, objective, that everyone is equal. If they have no bad conscience, no one has to be afraid, but of course it is true, I want a different program. Wait for those who are already criticizing this program, what it will be like, wait, maybe it will happen, and there will also be an appreciation of the subscription. I was wondering if you'd like to apologize for the words you're saying. But in the program itself, I really want someone else to perform, except of course, in recent times, Semolic and former [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u139	Mr. Rupar, thank you. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. I myself will support the proposal for a decision, as voted on by my mother's working body. The second thing I'd like to say to a colleague who used to show lists, I certainly didn't have a leaf like that, I'll get over it. Third thing you want to say. Of the 184 candidates, I think I knew 25, 30. Since the 16 votes, I think seven, eight. Of course, I have been taught and I think that I have also been taught by one of the opposition's colleagues and that I have voted on what he has proposed and for which he has not voted. Fourth thing you want to say. I would expect the members of the election committee to read at least for those for whom we have voted on CVs and to find that at least one of the candidates is a graduate of the Academy of Music, a music pedagogy department.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u142	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. When Mr. Kumer gets on his tail, he's the one who's got a wheeze. There's no need for alarm. The problem of today's debate is that this debate should not take place here, so that it is not up to policy to decide who should be in the programming world. If they are representatives of civil society, they should be sent to the programming board by civil society, but not by going to the premises of the Sušnik Commission or, if you want, by way of a document or a different crop list, by which someone should sit in the programming world. Today, I think that, of course, the Slovenian public can see how fruitless the debate is about who is a suitable member of the Programme Council, which will represent this or that area. It's not up to policy to decide. That was the main comment on your marriage, but you needed the law. You needed a law to enforce absolute authority. In order to ensure that whoever was appointed today may be suitable for the Director-General or will be decided here or on a different "log sheet", who will be the Director-General. My assessment is that today we are actually killing the last nails in the coffin of public television and we are doing something that will be state television and I want to tell Mr Rupar that. [[...]] The RTV contribution should be abolished because, of course, if the state has television, this country should be financed by television. And then, of course, find room in the state budget for your execution of the protection of power and the introduction of absolute authority also through state television. We will therefore oppose this proposal and will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I will personally support the proposal of 16 candidates, and for me these candidates, regardless of their mentality, whether they are leaning to the left or to the right, are not wrong, neither are any of these 16 candidates. If you look at respected colleagues and colleagues, these are candidates who are highly educated, who have PhDs in science that have both cultural, economic, journalistic, music and other fields of experience, even from literature to French, to journalism and so on. We with the Slovenian People's Party have made the most of our efforts when we adopted the law that we love these 16 candidates territorially from all over Slovenia. If we look at the list, if we compare the 5 other political parties in some way named, we can find with satisfaction that more or less of these candidates are distributed throughout Slovenia. They come from Celje, they come from Nova Gorica, they come from Maribor, Ljubljana, from Trbovlje, Adlešiča. In this way, we can see that there will finally be an institution that we can tell him is a Slovenian institution and also a programme council. The problem is seen by those who have cooperated in any way in the present lobby in this institution. Most employees in RTV Slovenia want changes. Not rematchism, not purgatory, but change. These changes can certainly provide for a programming council to be named here today. And I will personally support all those 16 candidates on the common list.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u145	Thank you. And Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I will also support those 16 names. I think that there are 16 exceptional names, but unfortunately it was not possible to list all those who have run, and that is why some areas have remained uncovered. And it will be possible, as we have said many times and as we know by law, to change in two years. I would like to say that this "plonk brick", which we have heard here today, is totally not true, could be adapted a bit by fellow Member Kumer. I will tell myself one experience that I myself voted for the candidate proposed by my colleague Mogo, and then I realized that he and his people did not vote for him, and the coalition voted. So much for that. The vote lasted a very long time. The meeting lasted seven hours before we came to these proposals. Four rounds of votes were needed. And one more thing, the ballots are marked and anyone can freely review who voted for whom. Let me finish. Earlier, this body had set up a policy and is now determined by policy, with the difference that it had previously hidden itself for civil society, and now it is doing so in the eyes of the Slovenian public in this national assembly, which was elected by the Slovenian people in the parliamentary elections. So this is this difference, everything else is some deception, prevention and spread of some fear into Slovenian space, which, as I said yesterday, is still normalizing and becoming transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u147	Thank you. This concludes the list of applicants for explanations of vote. Once again, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 17, paragraph 9, of the RTV Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 23. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. This led to the appointment of 16 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board. In view of the fact that it is the first appointment of members of the Programme Council, it is necessary, under Article 17, paragraph 5, of the RTV Act, to designate 8 members to be appointed for a period of two years. In accordance with the same provision of the law, those members shall be appointed by lot carried out by the President of the National Assembly immediately after appointment. I suggest that Franz Jazbec and Rudolf Moge help me with the draw. Anyone would like a word on this proposal? If not, please join me, Mr Members, at the speaker's stage. The drawing will take place by checking that all 16 sheets are present. I will read the list: Alenčica Maria Bole Vrabec, Boris Cipot, Jože Faganel, Boris Grabrian, Dr Stane Granda, Dr. Remembrance Hribar, Ivo Jakob, Tanja Kuštrin, Bine Matoh, Gregor Pivec, Dr. Hubert Požarnik, Tanja Pučko Lesnik, Jože Snoj, Dr. Ivan Janez Štuhec, Anton Mito Trefalt and Helena Zupančič Kastelic. Now both members will put the leaves in the envelope and in the ballot box, and then I'll pull out eight envelopes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u148	Dr. Remembrance Hribar, Mr. Boris Grabrian, Mrs. Helena Zupančič Kastelic, Mrs. Alenčica Marija Bole Vrabec, Mr. Ivo Jakob, Dr. Hubert Požarnik, Mr. Jože Faganel and Mr. Bine Matoh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u149	I note that with lots we have appointed the following 8 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, who will serve for two years. These are - Alenčica Maria Bole Vrabec, Jože Faganel, Boris Grabrian, Dr. Hribar, Ivo Jakob, Bine Matoh, Dr. Hubert Požarnik and Helena Župančič Kastelic. This concludes the first paragraph of the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. Anybody want to explain their voice? Does anyone want to go first on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Saiovic on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. At the LDS House of Members, we will oppose such a supervisory council, even though we have a member there. The new supervisory board, which will decide on organisational and financial matters and even adopt the statutes of the institution, is a completely secret government body, because according to the taste of the government, there are already more than 6 members in this 11-member body, which means that from now on, the government coalition will directly decide on the organisation and financial position of RTV Slovenia, even though it is not financed from the state budget, but by a subscription paid by virtually all citizens and citizens. Also in voting on the Commission's mandate-immunity, the government coalition cut off a larger piece of cake than it would have been. There should be represented parties based on the key of representation in the National Assembly. In this way, some parties have fallen out unjustly, and some coalitions, which have been solidly represented so far, will be represented twice as much as necessary. That is why we will oppose such a supervisory council at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u152	On behalf of the Group of Members. We will also oppose this proposal. We told you why yesterday. Not so much because our candidate isn't in there, but because there's simply a redesigned majority to oversee the work of the Supervisory Council. The Supervisory Board, which is supervised by the Authority, cannot control it. It's a simple logic that forces us to oppose him. I would also like to take this moment to explain to you that, in the previous vote for the Programme Council, I was wrong to vote in favour. It was clear from my debate that I opposed this body. Mistakes also happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u154	On behalf of the SDS Group of Members. We will support the proposed composition in the SDS Group. It is the fact that for the first time in a long time the supervisory board becomes an authority with actual decision-making power. He will decide on business matters, he will not be allowed to go into the programme, and the composition of the proposed candidates is also appropriate and very quality. This body will in fact also adopt the statute, of course, with the consent of the Programme Council and the two-thirds majority. Even those who have previously seen that the ruling coalition should have a majority here, of course, two-thirds of them do not have it and cannot have it. This is said to be a high level of consensus here, so that in fact it will be possible to form a public institution to the extent of all that is ours, I am sure, a common goal. This body will also be able to decide on the allocation of funds, programmes and organisation, so that everything that you have started before will be enabled. By the time the statutes are adopted, this is 6 months, and when new regulation is properly established on this basis, one of the temporary solutions that would, I am sure, be compatible with the law, such as the temporary transmission of the so-called 3rd programme, as you say, can easily be used on the frequencies currently occupied by Channel 2, of course at a time when there is no direct transfer of the game or another important event. Simply as yesterday, instead of 365 repetitions of one and the same broadcasts, they could simply postpone the meeting of the National Assembly and I don't know any additional investments quickly would not be necessary, as the working body could naturally meet in this Chamber when it was transferred. Just a little goodwill is needed, but everything can be resolved. And I am sure that these people who are being proposed today are certainly the people who are going through this and who are going through enough knowledge to fully implement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u155	Thank you. There's no more explanation. Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u156	I thank the former head of RTV for letting me speak. I will vote against this because this Supervisory Board is entirely under the control of the SDS. A simple calculation shows that the government: appoints four, SDS two, is six, and the SDS associates are the rest, and from this point of view will have no difficulty in enforcing what we have heard, good will. I object to the fact that laws are enforced with goodwill, but they must also be enforced when there is no good will. The laws are to be respected, not to serve the good will of Mr Grimes and his "friends". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u157	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 21 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. This concludes item 1.c of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - this is by re-declaring the law amending the law on trade. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in favour of the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. 46 or more. Mr. Friday Milan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u158	Thank you, President. I am speaking on behalf of the LDS Club of Members and Members and the public, and it will be clear at the outset that the LDS is once the ruling party, when leading the government, and also now that it is in opposition, you are agreeing to the open market, free competition, modern economic initiatives and also the choices that are the subject of this law that we are considering today. So when we were ruling, we stood up for this when we were in the opposition and we will stand up for it when we rule again. Members of the LDS will therefore vote against the adoption of the law, but we justify this because we believe that we live in a legal country where the Constitution must be in force, where the will expressed in the referendum must also apply. And this will expressed in the referendum, and this constitutional right to equality is violated by this law. This law does not guarantee both attributes, this law with content, with solutions, so that by amending the law as proposed, it violates this relationship, as it introduces so many changes, so many solutions that do not allow equal market entry, the equivalent position of all employees in trade, in the economy and also those facts. The Minister himself was evaling in the interpretation of the law. At first, he said that marriage was bad in some of the solutions. Hence, by speaking only of solutions, he made it clear and loudly that the marriage is bad, which means that the law is bad for him as well as the proposer. And if the Minister tells you all that the marriage is bad, I think that the coalition partners should listen to it and vote against it. At the same time, the Minister predicts that he will carry out the monitoring and propose to amend this law within three months. But what laws are, what is the seriousness of these and documents, that before it was adopted, someone is predicting a change. So, according to our opinion, Members of Parliament and Madam Members, these are not underwear or shirts that we change every day, this is a law that must, of course, be valid for some time. The Kostanj we are serving is in the hands of those who have set it off, Mr Drobnič, the opposition at the time, today ruling ministers and prime ministers, who therefore have to imagine, because they are responsible for Slovenia, they are responsible for the traders, they are responsible for tourism, they are responsible for Slovenia's development. In this case, when they propose such a law, I think they're doing the wrong thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u160	I'm sorry. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will vote against the re-confirmation of the law. Throughout the debate on the regulation of working hours of trade, we were convinced that this working time should be regulated by agreement between the social partners, between the employees and their unions and between employers with the creative cooperation of the government. None of this happened in the law. Therefore, there were various requirements on how to regulate working hours administratively, a referendum was held, a referendum requested that opening times of trade be ensured on Sundays only 10 times a year. The difference was not great, but it was a formal decision. Then a reference to the referendum will began, which is also correct, and a final decision was reached. But, ladies and gentlemen, at the final decision of the referendum will, there is nothing left. All those, and you're mainly in the government coalition that you've been talking about, how unconditional and to the point you have to respect the referendum will, this time you've turned on it. It was more important for you to introduce additional exceptions to the law, which are, to the extent that you have a political view and political orientation, and indeed there will be a substantive squabble that will not only act against a free economic initiative that will not save the situation of traders and traders and their rights from a working relationship, but, on the contrary, make substantial differences between the rights that those traders you have chosen in most of them - and the exception is from 7 now 18 - to those who, in your opinion, do not enjoy such a right. I am convinced that this choice is political, that this choice is ideological, and that is why we will not vote in the parliamentary group to re-confirm the law. Every word you said yesterday, which you will say today, to vote for respect for the referendum will, you know that it is substantively and formally unrealistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Koren has the floor. You didn't raise your hand? [[No, no, ……]] Then Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I will explain my vote. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we claim that the novelties already adopted, although some exceptions have been added, are still followed by the will of the electorate, which was expressed in the elections - this has also been shown on Sunday - and in particular following the basic purpose of the law, that workers will be traders on Sundays at home. It is true that, and in the future, a number of other activities will be carried out, unfortunately or to satisfaction, even on Sundays, in view of certain production cycles which dictate this, or under other circumstances. Perhaps they would not be pleased here, not if they offered me emergency medical care or first aid at home, with bread or a glass of milk, which they would soon receive on Sunday’s open shop. And it is true, as we say in New Slovenia, that on Sunday those who need to do or do what they do, and not those for whom we see that they are not necessarily necessary. However, we agree with what the Minister has also said that implementation of the novel is necessary, of course, if it is accepted, to monitor closely and if there is an irregularity that the Ministry of Economy will respond or, if necessary, supplement the law. In our Group of Members, we will once again support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group will support the law. It will support it for a very simple reason, because we estimate that although it is considered to be the best, it is still better than what is currently in force. This one, now in force, was so supposedly played by the State Council and perhaps thanked him for the consummation of the referendum. We believe, however, that at least ten opposition Members and Members who have signed an amendment that requires more exceptions than is now proposed in this law will vote in favour of this law. While some of them did not vote on the committee then, I hope they will vote today. The ten of the 14 signatories, i.e. only four were from the coalition, were Milan Petek, Mitja Slavinec, Matthew Movnik, Matjaž Han, Breda Pecan, Sam Bevk, Happy Friend, Barbara Žgajner Tavš and Bogdan Barovic. If you vote like you signed, and I'm sure you didn't have a fig in your pocket at the time, then thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We have heard many times, and the government and the minister are proposing that this is a bad marriage. However, I do not think or intend to support bad laws, so I will oppose them, especially because we have completely and completely politicised an economic issue. Of course, it is necessary to respect the will of the electorate, but the will of the voters in the referendum has been expressed quite a while ago and things are changing rapidly in Europe and the world. And yet, today, conditions are significantly different than they were back then. Adopting such a law means, of course, harming many of our citizens. And the number of workers who will be able to rest on Sundays will be roughly the same as the number of workers who will lose their jobs due to closing down stores on Sundays, and that's what worries me. As a member of the Gornja constituency, I have received many initiatives and requests, both by those who carry out trade activities in Bled as a pearl of Slovenian tourism, as well as by those who carry out activities in the Roma centre of Brezje, at Maria, help us, and I think that all these matters should make us feel like we are dealing with a bad law. Other solutions need to be found, so that at the end of the cash registers the merchants in Trbiz and elsewhere across the border will not rejoice over Brezja and Bled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's hard to force someone to vote for a law that the Constitutional Court said was unconstitutional. I'd like to ask everyone who reads from a variety of sheets, looks like today it's fashion to take that into account. This law is also not in the context of what people went to the referendum for. It is a stretching version of everything that the Minister himself finds out. He wrote it down beautifully that he's not really either. Neither is it consistent with the referendum will nor is it part of the laws. And if we are to help traders, then we must help them in such a way that we raise their wages to increase their social level in the context of having a better tomorrow can be expressed in a thicker wallet. Not in such a way that we take away their right to work on Sunday, for Sunday’s allowance is the largest supplement in their salary. If the Labour Relations Act were taken into account, we could quickly conclude that this law prescribes a 40-hour working week and one weekend a month off. Many employers do not take that into account. This was also the result of all the difficulties of the sellers. We've stretched it out here like fur from harmonica and we're working out of this big elephant fly, but we've missed the direction, definitely. And what will be adopted today will be unconstitutional, which is even more sad, and will not be done by the workers and the workers in the shops.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Within the framework of everything that has happened before, before, before and after the referendum, at and after the referendum in the adoption of this legislation and before, this law is within the framework of the best possible outcome; I think it is the best that could be written and adopted. Therefore, our parliamentary group will vote again in favour of the law. But of course, I am reluctant to think that when it is organised, signed and so on and signed for various referendums, it is necessary to give careful thought to the case of a referendum or a referendum or a referendum and when it is not, because then problems arise. We expect, however, from the Ministry, from the Minister, that after a short period of time to do so, I think that this guarantee was also given at the time of the adoption of this law, a thorough analysis of what it means for employees now, what it means for traders, what it also means for the outflow of capital from the country, in line with what the tourist pulse of individual places means and so on. And that, on the basis of this analysis, the ministry or government may then make a slightly revised proposal. As we say, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u172	I won't support the law because it doesn't suit traders because it doesn't suit traders, so employers and employees, because it doesn't suit consumers, because it's not a satisfied government because it says that it's done bad because I don't support hypocrisy, because on the one hand, you're saying that you're willing to go to the referendum, which was talking about 80 square meters of surfaces, and now you want to round up some lobbying at 200 square meters, which is just as arbitrary as 80 square meters. And so if we don't adopt this law, it means you'll be closer to your ideas, your wishes for as many closed shops as possible. Because with such restrictions as they are now in law, like last Sunday, virtually most trades will be closed. With these exceptions, which you will now legislate, the possibility will be up to 84% of stores open on Sundays. And this is your data, from your analysis. Who am I supposed to believe? How do I vote that I will respect my will at the referendum to listen to the government's desire to make a better marriage, to listen to traders, traders, to listen to myself when I talk about free choice, what will I do on Sunday? Last but not least, I will also vote against the fact that I will allow Mr Joseph Jerovšk to be invited to a match in the VIP box, where only his client colleagues sit, five, six of them, headed by the Minister, the head of the holding company, are the presidents of countless supervisory boards in state and public companies. And of course, look at him, damn it, someone is even suspiciously raising his hand, just like the most hated man in history! Maybe they'll invite him and he'll have an opportunity to go there, not to the store.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this marriage. I am convinced that this national assembly is or are we the kind of people who are supposed to accept good or bad marriages. I'm sure we are, but we're starting to make good laws. And I don't accept the statements of some who say that this marriage is better than it is now. I have to tell you in person that I'm sure this marriage is bad. The law is bad because Minister Vizjak himself has declared that he is weak, and I believe that the Minister is ready to re-sit at the negotiating table. This law does not take into account the referendum will, not the will of traders and traders, does not take into account the will of workers and employers, so I have no reason to adopt this law. The Council of State has given us the opportunity to re-sit at the table, to start talking again about this law that could bring about greater economic growth in Slovenia, which is the basis for all further steps. So once again, I will not really adopt the law, but no matter whether I supported the amendment or signed the amendment, because it does open the matter wide open.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, unfortunately you do not have the right to a replica, you do not have the opportunity to reject false statements, and so do Members. Mr. Friday Milan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u176	Thank you, President. So, of course, I am completely behind my opening act as a representative of the Club of Members. However, I would like to further explain this against you by commenting on Mr Rezman's explanation, but I regret to mention the name because it does not hold that we have not actually come to know this. We have already written in our speech yesterday, which I do not know whether Mr Rezman listened or not, whether he read or not, because we are all Members - and it is right to pour ourselves pure wine - with various exceptions, the supplements tried to solve what they can at all. So, we said it ourselves yesterday, we didn't hide anything, which means that we actually wanted to prepare at that stage of the consideration of the law just to make possible a more enjoyable, more useful law that would give us, I would say, a basis for the implementation of the referendum will. Unfortunately, this has not worked, unfortunately during this time we have learned that this cannot be done, and therefore, of course, we are also against the law at this stage. And that's all we really wanted to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u177	Mr. Friday, and how will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u178	I told you in the beginning, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u179	Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party will always respect the will of the electorate, including the will expressed in the referendum. Unfortunately, life is a compromise, and even in this case, a constitutional decision by the Constitutional Court has come in between, and this law, as we have repeatedly stressed, is the best compromise possible. That is why the SDS Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The referendum will must be respected. But did the esteemed electorates and voters really get a mandate to decide not only on the precise issue of the operating time of trade, but also on Slovenian tourism? Can they change the law on promoting the development of tourism or the strategy on the development of Slovenian tourism? I don't think so. I come from the tourist congregation Piran, where two thirds of the guests are from foreigners, foreigners who pass to Piran especially during the weekend. In Piran on Sunday, more or less everyone works - receptionists, hotelists, waiters, taxi drivers, croupiers and could still list - only, apparently, sellers will not. And sometimes we've been doing a lot of shopping abroad, instead of the strangers coming to us, we've got strangers now, but obviously it's happening again. Foreigners will lose the so-called integral product mentioned in the tourist regulations, an integral product that also includes the possibility of buying what they need on Sundays. For this reason, because of the interference of these changes in the trade law, which goes beyond the will of the electorate, I support the veto on one side and on the other hand I oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again. I will support the Trade Act again, because it has been too long to see what the referendum will do for more than two years, and I have also heard many times from the big centre trades what we think, when we will respect the referendum will, whether they will continue to be open on Sundays and it will be some folklore and something everyday for families that have nowhere to be given on Sundays. The Council of State, and above all, the opposition has made clear to us that we do not respect the referendum will; it is those who opposed the referendum! Nowhere on the referendum paper did it say how many squares would have stores that would be closed or those that would be opened. So much so that we don't put sand in our eyes about the referendum will, about the square. Indeed, we have also made additional exceptions, namely, these stings, marinas, antique centers, pilgrim trails, as well as the Postojna cave, because some of you are extremely afraid that the trade before the Postojna Cave would not be open. I think it would have done without these exceptions, but it was the opposition that attacked us, only where tourists would go on Sundays, what economic damage we would cause, how people would be hungry and so on. I think that these exceptions are mainly in tourist centres and that they are smaller shops and are more or less privately owned there and will decide whether they want to be open or not, while in major shopping centres traders do not have the option to choose whether to work or not on Sunday for 300 tolars or have another day off, so I will support the law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think this law is also one of them who somehow denies what was voted in the referendum. In doing so, he even makes such a sense to illustrate it. In a temple in Jerusalem, young Jesus drove merchants out of the temple because they traded in it. By this law, some who swear on it, even at temples, make trades and then instead of being a place of sanctification, will become a place of bartering, where baranting will take place in the front. At least on Sunday we should be so good that this thing doesn't start. I also think that, with regard to the education of a member of DeSUS, how should a member of the LDS Group vote if they want to wash their faces, I would like to remind him that, in the previous term, DeSUS was an iron part of the LDS - SD coalition and that it was then for this referendum not to be supported and signed. However, the referendum has been voted on and we will respect the referendum will. This law is not such as to respect this referendum will, and therefore I am surprised by DeSUS, who has made "salto mortale" from one political establishment to another, but will now support what is contrary to what has been voted on in the referendum. I therefore recommend to all that you do not support this law and that you really try to do with some other law that the will of the people in the referendum will be respected. I'll vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. So now we are faced with the fact that we have to decide on two options, unfortunately both very, very bad. Why? If we reject this law, there will be more trades on Sundays closed and people's suffering will be even greater. If we support this law, then there will be slightly fewer closed trades, some, at the will of those who have prepared the law, will be open, but we can expect opposition from those who rely on the referendum will. I have no problem with this alone, as several legal opinions have already been said that the referendum will has long been realized and we do not need to look into it. But it is an economy, it is about consumers, and it is important for all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who, every so often on Sunday, need some good, as well as the vital necessities of life, and I will not say that they will not be able to get it, but will be very difficult to do so. The point is not that stores have to be closed because of everything we've heard here, because of low wages, but because this law also does not save, but the point is that people did not go where they were expected to go, but in stores. Thank you so much for helping me explain my voice to the end. And because of this of the two bad options, I will choose the one where the constitutional court is more likely to be annulled than it has already been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u190	Well, I'll definitely vote in favour. I will vote completely calmly, even as far as the referendum will is concerned, because we are now repeating, so that even those who understand less should understand this, this has been realized. And no referendum will is such that it should last forever so that it should no longer change further. Then we'd have eternal laws, metaphysics, philosophers, we know that, but we're not in this world today. I still hope that those who have signed the amendment will vote in this way today, including Mr Petko, who was signed immediately behind me, and I am proud to see my signatures, and there is no reason to hide them. So I'm counting on 10 votes from the opposition. And the first one next Sunday, I'm inviting those to some point in the store that's gonna be open.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u192	Thank you, President. I find it interesting that at least today no one has touched one point that is crucial in understanding all this misery. And it's an abuse of the institute of referendum. But then, when this is supposed to change, there's definitely not a 2/3 majority in here to put a little order in this area. This was a referendum that actually stole from the social partners one of the main possible subjects for solving the problems and status of these people working on Sundays. Lawyers work on Sundays, not just merchants and merchants. I will, in my conscience, support this solution because it is the least bad moment among all the bad. There's no other way out, actually. If this marriage isn't supported, we'll have one that's so much worse. In the hope that this discourse in this area, as well as in others, will be put where it belongs, this is to negotiate between employers and employees. By the way, we're dealing again with this situation, if politics is making nonsense, it turns people into sheep.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to all present in the hall! I will support the marriage myself, but I must say that I will not support it with any enthusiasm, but not because I would support Sunday's work, on the contrary. For I am a great opposer of Sunday's work, and I support it with a heavy heart because I can see that we have extended the exceptions that are present in marriage a little too much. Even for Mary herself, as has been mentioned many times in this room today, I personally feel that there is no need for the shop to be open there on Sundays. When I go to Brezje myself, I buy a sandwich on Saturday and take it with me, but I prefer to make money to the Goran inn and get lunch at Brezja and give their tourist workers some money. However, I am deeply disturbed by this shop that is there, which I think I would prefer to ban or drive away, as Jesus urged the merchants in the meetings. And there's another reason why I'm going to support this marriage. People wanted this and let me tell you an example that happened to me on Tuesday when a acquaintance met me and said, "You know, it didn't leave me alone on Sunday, I didn't believe it or there were closed shops. I got in the car and drove in front of Spar to see if he was locked up or not." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Horvat Joseph has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! I'll back up the marriage. I regret, however, that the key players in this business, which we are currently considering in this National Assembly for the fourth time, are employers or traders and trade unions in this industry, that they have failed to find a common language so that they have not been able to agree. In fact, it remained to be signed as the author of this law only by the government or this national assembly. Life is made up of many compromises. I appreciate that this compromise in the area of opening times of trade on Sunday is a good compromise and therefore, as has been said, I will re- back up the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I think they're headed by the Ministry with Minister Visiak to do a good and difficult job. This law is a compromise of various interests, from employees of traders to employers, so large and so small, to consumers, to the Constitutional Court, to the State Council and, last but not least, the referendum will of our citizens. Put all this together on the same denominator, believe me, it's really hard. Those who say that marriage is bad did not themselves have any better suggestions for any better marriage. I would like to draw attention to the referendum issue only, which was very bad. And on the basis of such a referendum question, it is also difficult to make a better marriage, and especially on the basis of the facts that I have previously identified, what better to do at this point. I also welcome the Minister's opinion that he will try to finalize this law in the future. I hope that the last thing we'll do is produce something good from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't support the law for the same reasons I said yesterday. At the time that Law A ceased to apply with 1.1., we have received Act B, which is valid for 10 days, and today we will adopt Act C, for which the coalition and the government have announced that it will not apply, because it will soon fix it - then it is pointless for me to take this interim action to support today this law, which we will change in 14 days or 2 months, and we may even get a solution A, which, after all these discussions, even coalition ones, is the closest we have to doing in Slovenia. For these simple technical, organisational and simplified reasons, I cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! I will not support this marriage. I have closely followed the argument of the advocates of this law, and I must say that it is surprising that most of these advocates, on the one hand, speak about how the referendum will is respected and at the same time boasts how the circle of exceptions expands, allowing something other than the referendum will to be disregarded. The referendum will is clear, the stores must be closed on Sundays. That is the referendum will, and that was the vote. Of course, on the other hand, if we look politically, we can especially see what is likely to happen, that the consequences of this law and this referendum are being faced today by people, ministers, Mr Mag. A little thing, mag. The Visik, who are actually like opposition Members, I remember this well, were loud speakers for closing and restricting Sunday work. And today they face consequences in a different place and in a different position when they have to deal with whether trade will progress or will not reduce the number of employees in trade. In some ways, this referendum is also historic in this respect or a reminder to those who are easily overtaken by cheap populist arguments. Of course, this law, as it is, is discriminatory. Of course he's going to fall in the Constitutional Court. What is an old cod core - urban concept, loose. Could be with a little imagination, too, BTC, if you ask me. And of course it's a record law, clearly anti-reformed and working exactly against what you'd like to do. I think a lot of people voted against closing trade because they switched working time with labour law. Of course, that is not true, and it is clear that we will be discussing this this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u203	Thank you. The explanation of vote has been completed. We're moving on to decision-making. In doing so, I would like to point out that a majority of Members must vote in order to adopt that law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 46 votes against 23. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of the third item of the agenda - this is the re-decision on the wine law. At the same time, we shall also be replaced in the management of the sitting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u204	We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in favour of the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. I note at the end of the vote that from the 59 Members present, 7 to 45 voted in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 45.]] I understand that the law has not been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a candidate for the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. On the basis of Article 6 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts to the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that Mr Mir Prek be elected as Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. In order to further explain the proposal by the President of the Republic, I give the floor to Dr Matjaž Nahtigal, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposed candidacy, which is the result of a long-standing transparent and demanding procedure in which various branches of government participate. All qualified and relevant legal opinions have been drawn up on the basis of which the President of the Republic has decided to act as a proposed candidate who fulfils all the conditions required and has appropriate references. At the same time, it is about the completion of another institution with representatives of the Republic of Slovenia and we propose its confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. There are no debaters, so I am closing the debate and moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Mr. Franz Jazbec [[SDS]] Mr Rudolf Moge [[LDS]] Mr. Aurelio Yuri [[SD]] and Mr Cyril Testen [[NSI]] . I'd like to ask where Mr. Aurelio Yuri is because I can see he's not in the hall. We'll wait a little while, in case Mr. Aurelio Yuri is in the lobby of the hall. He's not here. Can we propose someone else from the Social Democrats Group? Ma'am mag. They're spending, can they? Thank you very much. So there was a replacement: instead of Mr Aurelio Yuri, Mrs Mag. Majda Potter. So I read again the members of the commission: Franz Jazbec, Rudolf Moge, mag. Majda Potter and Cyril Testen. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of that commission. We're voting. I note that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected by 53 votes in favour and against - none. 54 were present. I'm sorry, Mr. Yuri. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 2.20 p.m. and will last until 2.35 p.m., maybe 15 minutes more, 2.35 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 3:40. Mr. Brenčič, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's only one message I'd like to make, because now is the best time. Committee on Labour, Family and Social Policy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u208	Would you mind asking? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u209	convened for the 10th regular session today at 2 p.m. [[...]] I ask you to have a lunch in this intermesia during the electoral process and we would like to begin the session 15 minutes after the meeting of the National Assembly. So 15 minutes after the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we begin at the Tomšič 5 10th regular meeting of the Committee for Work, Family, Social and Disabled Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Ma'am, Master Potrata, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to do the same as the well-respected Chairman of the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee. The Committee on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities was also convened for a regular meeting today at 2 p.m. Since this cannot be done, I propose that we do the same as the Committee, which means that we begin the meeting 15 minutes after the meeting of the State Assembly is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u212	Thank you very much. That's a nice offer, both of you, and it's acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-11-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u213	We continue with the suspension of the fourth item on the agenda, this is the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. I will read the minutes on the secret ballot on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 11 January 2006. 65 ballots were distributed, 65 ballots were delivered. There were no invalid ballots. There were 65 valid ballots. 26 Members and Members voted against. 39 Members and Members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the candidate, Mr Miro Prek, was not elected by majority of the votes of all Members as Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. Members of the committee who led the vote: Vasja Klavora, Franz Jazbec, Rudolf Moge, Majda Potrata and Cyril Testen. Since the candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, new elections shall be held on the basis of new nominations. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Goodbye!
